Document of
The World Banlkq" I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3153-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
January 19, 1981
Power and Energy Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 1980)
Currency unit                      =  Yemen Rial (YRl)
Official rate
1 Yemen Rial (YR1 1)               =  US$0.22
YRls 1,000                         =  US$222
YRls 1,000,000                     =  US$222,222
YRlo 4.5                           =  US$1.00
YR1  1                             =  100 fils
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilowatt (kW)                    =  1,000 watts (103W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                    =  1,000 kilowatts (103kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)              =  1,000 watt hours (lQ3Wh)
1 Megawatt hour (MWh)              =  1,000 kWh (103kWh)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)              =  1,000,000 kWh (106kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV')                   =  1,000 volt (103V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)            =  1,000 volt-ampere (3VA) 3
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)            =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (10 kVA)
1 kilocalorie (kcal)               =  3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
1 kilogram standard coal
equivalent (kgce)               =  7,000 kcal = 27,776 Btu
1 kilogram (kg)                    =  2,206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (long ton)                   =  2,240 lb = 1,015 kg = 1.12 short ton
1 meter (m)                        =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 millimeter (mm)                  =  0.001 m
1 kilometer (km)                   =  1,000 m = 3,281 ft
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AMN     Ansaldo Meccanico Nucleare
BEI     British Electricity International Ltd.
CPO     Central Planning Organization
EdF     Electricite de France
JEA     Jordanian Electricity Authority
K&D     Kennedy and Donkin
KfW     Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
MEWS    Ministry of Electricity, Water and Sewerage
NEP     National Electrification Program
NRECA   National Rural Electric Cooperative Association
OECF    The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
RDD     Rural Distribution Department
YAR     Yemen Arab Republic
YGEC    Yemen General Electricity Corporation
YOMINCO Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A.   Energy Resources ........................1.............. 
B. Sector Organization.                                                 2
Overall Organization.                                              2
The Power Subsector.                                               2
Historical Development.                                            2
Present Setting.                                                   3
C. Energy Demand and Supply.                                            3
Trends in the Consumption of Petroleum Products                    3
Trends in the Consumption of Electricity Supplied
by YGEC.                                                          3
D. Energy Pricing.                                                      4
Petroleum Products .....................................           4
Electricity Tariffs.                                               6
E. The Beneficiary: YGEC.                                               9
Organization and Managenient.                                      9
Development Program .10
Manpower and Training .11
Manpower .11
Training .12
F.   The Past and Future Involvement of IDA in the
Energy Sector ..............                  .      ....    13
II. THE PROJECT .14
The Setting .14
Project Objectives .14
Project Scope and Location .15
Project Description .15
This report was prepared by Messrs. I.I. Elwan (Economist), C.S. Christofides
(Engineer), and W.G. Hamlet (Financial Analyst).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)                                                    Page No.
II.  THE PROJECT (cont'd)
Project Cost .........................................                15
Engineering and Construction Supervision ....           ..............   17
Status of Project Preparation .............................   17
Construction Supervision .......         ...........................   17
Project Implementation, Ownership and Operation ....         .......   17
Procurement . ..............................................   18
Disbursement .     ..............................................   18
Environmental Aspects .......................                         19
Risks .......................  19
III.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS    .................. .................    19
A.  Past Performance ............................    19
Introduction ............................    19
Accounting System ............................    19
Revaluation of Assets .........          ...................    20
Auditing ............................    20
Collection of Electricity Supply Bills .....          ...............   21
Financial Rate of Return .........        .........................   21
Financing of Power Project I .......         .......................   22
B.  Project Financing .........................................   23
Financing Plan ............................................   23
Lending Arrangement . .......................................   23
C.  Future Financial Performance    ............... ...............   24
Investment Program for 1981-1986 ...........................  25
Debt Service Covenant ....................................   26
Insurance ....................................  26
IV.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ...........................................  26
A.  Load Forecast ..............................................  26
B.  Least Cost Alternative . .....................................  27
C.  Return on Investment .......................................  27
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................ .       .  28
ANNEXES
1.1   Unified Power System--Installed Generating Capacity-Peak Demand-
Actual and Forecast System Loads
2.1   Development of Project Cost Estimates
2.2   Yearly Project Cost Estimates
2.3   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
2.4   Estimated Implementation Schedule
3.1   Consolidated Income Statements



Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES (cont'd)
3.2   Consolidated Balance Sheets
3.3   Sources and Applications of Funds for the Years
Ended December 31, 1981-1986
3.4   Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
4.1   Return on Investment of the Project
4.2   Assumptions for Rate of Return Calculations
5.1   Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 15259



I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Energy Resources
1.01     The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has no known conventional energy
resources except for small deposits of commercially unexploitable poor
quality coal.  As a result, the country is totally dependent on imported
petroleum products for meeting its needs of commercial energy. There are,
however, large areas with potential for oil and gas discoveries which have
not yet been adequately surveyed. The Government is presently in the
process of formulating a program for systematically surveying the geology
of these areas. While the ability of the Government to formulate such a
program is presently constrained by a shortage of technically experienced
personnel, technical assistance to strengthen the institutions responsible
for exploration planning in YAR is under consideration. Traditional fuels
in the form of fuelwood and animal dung play a major role in meeting the
rural population's overall demand for energy, but their exact contribution
is not known because of inadequate data. These fuels are mainly used as a
source of energy for cooking purposes. However, among the traditional
fuels, fuelwood is the most widely used despite its relatively high price
(para. 1.09). YAR has a good solar regime whose exploitation for water
heating and crop drying could be economic. The potential uses of renewable
energy in YAR, including solar energy, would be addressed in a study to be
carried out in 1981 under financing from UNDP. YAR also has some sources
of geothermal energy south of Sana'a between Damar and Radaa. Assessment
of the potential for exploiting these sources in the generation of
electricity would require a lengthy study (about 4-year) consisting of
three phases. The first phase would involve geological and geochemical
survey of the area. The second phase would cover the geophysical survey of
areas considered more promising, and the third phase would involve explora-
tion drilling. ELECTROCONSULT (Italian firm) has started in November 1980
to carry out the first phase, under financing from the Italian Government.
Although several studies relating to the development of the energy sector
(least cost program for the power subsector, assessment of geothermal
potential, optimal infrastructure for handling petroleum products, etc.)
are underway or about to start, YAR does not have an overall plan for the
development of the sector that would integrate the results of these studies
into a coordinated investment program. This shortcoming is expected to be
remedied through an IDA technical assistance credit currently scheduled for
FY82 which would be specifically designed to strengthen the planning
capabilities of the Central Planning Organization (CPO).



B. Sector Organization
1.02     Overall Organization.  The management of YAR's energy sector is
shared among the Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO), the
Ministry of Electricity, Water and Sewerage (MEWS) and the Central Planning
Organization (CPO). YOMINCO, a Government owned organization is respon-
sible for the development, distribution and marketing of petroleum products
and minerals. The MEW is responsible for the public supply of electricity
managed through the Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC). The CPO,
on the other hand, is responsible for the coordination between the two sub-
sectors and the integration of their investment programs with the national
plan of economic development.
The Power Subsector:
1.03     Historical Development:  The development of electric power is a
relatively recent phenomenon in YAR. In the early sixties, there was only
2 MW of generating capacity in the entire country, used exclusively by the
Imam and a handful. of individuals and institutions. During the sixties and
early seventies, the generating capacity increased with the rise of the
Republican Government which replaced the Imam's feudal rule after a pro-
tracted civil war. This increase, however, was guided by entrepreneurship
and individual need rather than a coordinated plan for the development of
the power subsector. By 1975, the installed generating capacity reached
20 MW which was divided among 21 small independent utilities that served
a limited number of consumers in the main cities and villages, and indi-
viduals that generated electricity for their own use and sold the surplus
to their neighbors. The service provided by the utilities was confined to
the centers of the cities and towns served because of the acute shortage of
capital needed for expanding their systems. On the other hand, the service
provided by individuals varied between 2 to 4 hours daily and was usually
limited to providing power for domestic lighting. As a result, the
generation of electricity by small consumers for their own use became
widespread. At that time, the predominant characteristic of electricity
supply, as a whole, was its poor quality.
1.04     In 1975, in an effort to increase the population's access to elec-
tricity and improve the quality of service, the Government created YGEC to
take over the power subsector and eventually become solely responsible for
all the public supply of electricity in YAR. The Government's long-term
objective is for YGEC to provide public electricity service to 80% of the
population by 1998 (para. 1.17). During its first year of operation, YGEC
purchased the privately owned utilities in the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and
Hodeida. Thereafter, it moved rapidly to consolidate its service in the
principal demand areas. By 1980, it had purchased and upgraded the systems
of 8 of the remaining 18 privately owned utilities that were in existence
at the time of its incorporation. YGEC also installed 12 new isolated
systems outside the three main cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida.



-3-
1.05     Present Setting:  At present, YGEC's systems have a combined
capacity of about 90 MW of which 59 MW are installed in the cities of
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida, and the remaining 31 MW are dispersed throughout
the country (Annex 1.1). YGEC provides electricity to about 81,000 con-
sumers of which 45,000 (56%) are in the three major cities and the remain-
ing 36,000 (44%) are in 20 small towns and large villages. In addition to
YGEC, 10 of the original 21 privately owned electric utilities are still in
operation serving about 20,000 consumers. Their combined installed capac-
ity is about 11 MW.
1.06     In spite of YGEC's efforts to extend its service, the Corporation
has been unable to keep up with the demand for electricity which resulted
in increased private generation, particularly by small consumers. In 1979
alone, 38,000 small generators were imported. At present, the combined
installed capacity of the small private generators is estimated to be about
170 MW; ranging in capacity between 1 and 1.5 KW. While YGEC is developing
its system and strengthening its capabilities to serve the entire country,
which is expected to take between 10-15 years to achieve, the prevalence of
a significant amount of small private generation outside the three main
cities is expected to characterize the subsector because private generation
constitutes the only alternative to YGEC's service.
C.  Energy Demand and Supply
1.07     Trends in the Consumption of Petroleum Products.  Between 1973 and
1979, the overall consumption of petroleum products increased at an average
annual rate of about 26% (from 155,000 tons to 608,000 tons). Of these
products, gasoline had the highest rate of growth (31%) followed by diesel
oil (25%), kerosene (19%), fuel oil (5%) and LPG (9%). These high rates of
growth are attributed to YAR's low energy base and the real growth of the
economy during the seventies. YAR continues to be among the lowest commer-
cial energy consumers in the world. In 1960, its per capita consumption of
commercial energy was 7 kgce compared to an average of 98 kgce for the low
income countries. By 1978, YAR's per capita consumption of energy had
increased to 53 kgce, which was still low relative to an average of
161 kgce for low income countries. Over the past 6 years, the economy
of YAR has had one of the highest rates of growth among the low income
countries. The annual real rate of growth of the GDP between 1973 and 1979
has averaged 10% which was largely attributed to the unprecedented level of
remittances from Yemenis working abroad. However, between 1980 and 1990,
the growth of the GDP is expected to slow down to about 6% as the economy
matures and higher growth rates become more difficult to sustain. This
deceleration is expected to be reflected in the growth of consumption of
commercial energy over the next decade which is expected to slow down to an
average annual rate of about 8% to 10%.
1.08     Trends in the Consumption of Electricity Supplied by YGEC:  When
YGEC was incorporated (1975), its installed capacity was 11.4 MW, maximum



demand was 10 MW, electricity sales were 33,700 MWh, and the number of con-
sumers was 30,700.  By June 1980, installed capacity reached 89.6 MW (51%
average annual increase), maximum demand was at 40.5 MW (32% average annual
increase), electricity sales amounted to 124,650 MWh (30% average annual
increase), and the number of customers rose to about 81,000 (22% average
annual increase).  The historical rates of growth in sales would have been
substantially higher, if it were not for the constraints imposed by the
supply capabilities of YGEC's isolated systems. For the period 1980-1986,
it is projected that the rate of increase in YGEC's sales would, at least,
be maintained at its historical level. This is reasonable in light of the
fact that, by 1983., YGEC's generation and distribution systems would be
increased substantially with the anticipated completion of a large pro-
portion of its interconnected system (para. 1.25).
D. Energy Pricing
1.09     Petroleum Products;  The domestic prices of all petroleum prod-
ucts, with the exception of diesel oil, are set by the Government at levels
that are higher than their average border prices 1/, but for most products,
the domestic price falls short of covering the total cost incurred by the
Government. In June 1980, the average domestic price for petroleum prod-
ucts was US$466/ton compared to an average border price of US$362/ton, and
an average cost for importing, transporting and distributing these products
of US$576/ton. 2/ The difference between the average cost to the Govern-
ment and the average domestic price amounting to US$110/ton, is attributed
to the relatively high cost of handling the petroleum products, and the
subsidy extended to the consumers of diesel oil, LPG, kerosene and aviation
fuel 3/. The Government subsidizes the price of diesel and aviation fuel
because they are considered essential fuels for agriculture, industry and
commercial transport, while it subsidizes the prices of LPG and kerosene to
discourage the rural population from the use of fuelwood whose consumption
is responsible for the increased deforestation. The latter subsidy,
however, has not succeeded in slowing down the consumption of fuelwood
which is considered essential for traditional cooking. A summary of
domestic prices and subsidies (or taxes) is presented in Table 1 below:
1/  c.i.f. Hodeida.
2/ The average here refers to weighted average. Weights are based on the
mix of petroleum products consumed in 1980.
3/ Subsidy for aviation fuel is extended only to the national airline.



Table l: PETROLEUM PRODUCT PRICES /1
(US$/t.o.e.)
Border /2 Total    Domestic
Products                         Price      Cost    Sales Price    Difference
Gasoline                          408       659          730          + 71
Kerosene                          338       557          462          - 95
Diesel                            349       511          314          -197
Aviation Fuel                     430       644          550          - 94
Fuel oil                          209       286          287          +  1
LPG (25 lb bottle)                 31        39           35          -  4
Weighted Average                  362       576          466          -110
/1 Based on prices that prevailed in June 1980.
/2 c.i.f. Hodeida.
1.10     Between January and June of 1980, the cost to the economy of the
subsidy extended to the consumers of diesel, kerosene, LPG and aviation fuel
amounted to about US$36 million of which US$24 million was covered by the
consumers of the other petroleum products (cross subsidy) and the remaining
US$12 million was covered by the Government. The major part of this subsidy
covered the cost of handling the products. The handling cost is exception-
ally high in YAR because of the inadequacy of existing infrastructure for
the storage, transportation and distribution of petroleum products. The
Government is about to initiate several studies which would serve as a basis
for an investment program for the improvement of existing infrastructure.
1.11     Increasing the prices of LPG, kerosene, diesel oil and aviation
fuel to reduce, or preferably eliminate, the subsidies would reduce the
burden on the national budget and contribute to the improvement of the effi-
ciency by which these products are consumed. The reduction of the overall
burden of the subsidy on the Government is particularly important in view of
the fact that the remittances from abroad occur to individuals rather than
the Government which is chronically short of funds. Alternatively, if the
Government elects to continue subsidizing the prices of some of the petro-
leum products, the cost of this subsidy could be partially or totally off-
set, by taxing the consumers of the other petroleum products (cross subsidi-
zation). The Government is reluctant to eliminate the petroleum products
subsidy because of the possible adverse impact higher prices could have on
the economy. This is particularly true for diesel oil which is used by
industry, agriculture and commercial transport. Over the past two years,
studies were prepared by CPO to ascertain the impact of higher prices for
diesel oil on the economy. These studies, however, were partially
inconclusive and, as a result, the Government has been hesitant to tackle
what is considered as a major policy decision. Therefore, a plan for the



- 6 -
reduction of the burden of the subsidy for petroleum products on the Govern-
ment is expected t:o be undertaken as a part of a comprehensive policy for
the rationalization of energy pricing in YAR. Such a plan would cover the
pricing of petroleum products, electricity and coal, if any is used at
present. The proposed Project would finance an energy pricing study to be
undertaken by consultants. The study is expected to take about 7 man-months
to complete at a lump sum foreign exchange cost of about US$84,000. IDA has
been asked to provide the Government with draft TOR for the study by
February 1981. The objective of this study would be to formulate a number
of strategies for pricing energy and trace the impact of each strategy on
the major energy consuming sectors. In addition, the study would assess the
likely impact on t:he Government (the subsidy burden) of using coal for power
generation and subsituting electricity for diesel oil used for irrigation
and potable water pumping. The strategies proposed by the study would
assist the Government in formulating a comprehensive policy for energy
pricing by providing an estimate of the impact on the economy of different
options for the pricing of petroleum products and electricity. The tariff
for electricity included in each strategy would be set within the new tariff
structure to be formulated by another consultant in a parallel tariff study
that would be financed under the proposed Credit (para. 1.15). Until the
studies for the pricing of energy and electricity are completed, and in
order to reduce the burden of the subsidy for petroleum products on the
national budget, the Government has agreed to: (i) hold the subsidy
extended to YGEC for its consumption of diesel oil at the level reached on
June 30, 1981; (ii) ensure that no subsidy would be extended to YGEC for its
future consumption of fuel oil; (iii) introduce in YGEC's tariffs a fuel
adjustment clause which will enable YGEC to automatically pass on to its
customers all future increases in the cost of its fuels; and (iv) hold the
burden of the subsidy extended to all other consumers of petroleum products
at the level reached on June 30, 1981. The Government has also agreed to
engage the consultants for the energy pricing study by not later than July
31, 1981, and to review with the Association, by December 31, 1982, its
plans for the rationalization of energy prices which would be based on the
recommendations of the pricing study.
1.12     Electricity Tariffs:  Tariffs for electricity service provided by
YGEC are set by the Corporation and implemented after Government approval.
According to the prevailing tariff structure, YGEC's customers are classi-
fied as either urban or rural without differentiation to their use of elec-
tricity (industrial, commercial, residential, water pumping, etc.).
Customers within each class pay a flat rate/kWh irrespective of the kWhs
consumed. At present, the rate for the urban consumers is YRls 1.0/kWh
(US$0.22/kWh) and YRls 1.5/kWh (US$0.33/kWh) for the rural.  In addition to
the tariff, each consumer pays an initial connection charge of YRls 1,200
(US$266.7) of which YRls 600 (US$133.3) are refundable upon termination of
electricity service. The difference between YGEC's rural and urban tariff
is not unusual since the cost of providing electricity service to rural
consumers is usually higher than the cost of serving urban consumers. In



- 7-
the case of YGEC, the costs of constructing and operating its rural isolated
systems are high because: (a) the small generators used in the rural areas
are, on the average, less efficient than larger size generators used in the
urban areas. The average fuel consumption of the generators presently
operating in the rural areas is about 30% higher than the average fuel
consumption of the generators in the three principal cities of Sana'a,
Hodeida and Taiz (0.4 litre/kWh compared to 0.3 litre/kWh); and (b) the cost
of constructing the distribution network in the rural areas is higher than
the cost of a similar network in the urban areas because the rural
population is more dispersed than the urban population. In 1980, the
average cost of connecting a rural consumer was about $1,300 compared to an
average cost for the urban consumer of about $500. As for the privately
supplied electricity, it costs (private rather than economic cost) between
YRIs 1.62/kWh (US$0.36/kWh) and YRls 2.25/kWh (US$0.50/kWh) for small
consumers to generate their own electricity while the electricity supplied
by small entrepreneurs to their neighbors is usually priced between YRls
2.0/kWh (US$0.44/kWh) and YRls 2.5/kWh (US$0.56/kWh).
1.13     Economic efficiency dictates that electricity tariffs be set equal
to the long run marginal cost of the resources used in generating and
delivering electricity to consumers. However, because of the lumpiness of
investment in power (indivisibility), the long run average incremental cost
is taken as a proxy for marginal cost. The marginal cost based tariffs are
then adjusted to ensure that the utility would cover an adequate percentage
(20%-40%) of the cost of its long run investment program. In the case of
YGEC, its long run development program involves the construction of a steam
power plant and the allied transmission network which would be in full
operation by 1984 (para. 1.17). Based on this development program, the long
run incremental cost of delivering electricity to rural consumers is about
YRls 1.10/kWh (US$0.24/kWh) and YRls 0.90/kWh (US$0.20/kWh) to urban con-
sumers which are lower than the tariffs currently being paid by YGEC's
consumers. However, the tariffs fall short of providing the internal cash
needed to finance the long run investment program which YGEC has to under-
take to develop its interconnected system. If a utility is characterized by
increasing long run average cost and its tariffs are at or above its long
run marginal cost, the revenue generated from the sale of its output would
cover an acceptable percentage of the cost of its development program. This
statement is true only if the development program is least cost; otherwise,
it would imply that the size of development program is uneconomic (number of
consumers is disproportionately small compared to the size of the facilities
used to serve them). If, however, the development program is least cost,
then the failure of these tariffs to provide an adequate level of internal
cash is attributed to the lumpiness (indivisibility) of the program. At
times, utilities that are at an early stage of their development are forced
to construct facilities which would not be optimally utilized until sometime
in the future but without which existing consumers cannot be served. In
such cases, a lower level of internal cash contribution (or lower financial
rate of return) would have to be accepted until the utility builds up a
market consistent with the size of its power facilities. The number of



consumers that YGEC would be serving between now and the time the steam
plant and the allied transmission system are in full operation is small
relative to the ccst of these facilities. Using the present time as a point
of reference, it would take about 5 years for the generating plant to be
optimally utlized and an additional 10 years before the capacities of the
transmission and distribution systems are in need of reinforcement. How-
ever, these facilities are necessary for serving the consumers in the near
future. If YGEC is to achieve an adequate level of internal cash contribu-
tion towards the cost of its long run development program, the prevailing
tariffs would have to be increased by about 200% for 1981 and another 120%
for 1982. If these increases are implemented, YGEC's consumers (existing
and new) could be induced to resort to generating their own electricity.
This does not imply that YGEC's tariffs should not be increased until its
system is optimally utilized, but that the setting of tariffs in the near
future should be guided by; (a) a scaled down interim financial objective
until the system is developed and the optimal number of consumers are con-
nected to it (para 3.11); and (b) the price consumers are willing to pay
during the interim period for alternative electricity service.
1.14     At present YGEC's consumers are receiving an implicit subsidy
through the subsidized prices paid by the corporation for diesel oil. YGEC
pays YRls 1,413/ton (US$314/ton) for diesel oil while it costs the Govern-
ment about YRls 2,300/ton (US$511/ton) to import and handle the fuel (based
on the prices of June 1980, see para. 1.09). This fuel subsidy amounts to
about YRls 887.0/ton (US$197/ton) which is expected to add up to YRls 42.2
million (US$9.4 million) for 1980. Meanwhile, despite the fact that YGEC's
tariffs are high relative to the long run marginal cost, they are neverthe-
less low relative to either the rates paid by consumers for the electricity
supplied by the smtall entrepreneurs or the cost to the consumers of generat-
ing their own electricity. The consumer's willingness to pay (WTP) for
YGEC's service is between the lowest cost incurred by consumers to generate
their own electricity (YRls 1.62/kWh) and the highest the small entre-
preneurs charge for their electricity (YRls 2.5/kWh). The difference
between the willingness to pay and the tariffs is large enough to justify
increasing the latter to cover the cost to the Government of the fuel used
by YGEC.   The price paid by YGEC for fuel is about 61% of what it costs
the Government. If the subsidy extended to YGEC's consumers is to be
eliminated, then the price it pays for diesel oil should be increased by
about 63%.  As noted above, the Government is reluctant to eliminate the
subsidy extended to YGEC for its consumption of diesel oil.  Instead, it has
agreed to hold that subsidy at the level reached on June 30, 1981 and
concurred to pass on all future increases in the cost of importing diesel
oil and fuel oil to YGEC (para. 1.11). Moreover, because of the expected
commissioning, by 1983, of the power plant at Ras Katenib which would
operate by burning fuel oil, YGEC's consumption of diesel oil after 1983
would amount to about 20% of its current consumption which would reduce
substantially (by 80%) the burden on the Government of the subsidy extended
to YGEC at present.



-9-
1.15     YGEC's tariff structure needs to be improved.  Differentiation
between consumers solely on the basis of geographical location is not
desirable. Instead, tariffs should be based on the cost incurred in
providing the service to each customer class (irrigation, industrial, com-
mercial, household users, etc.) irrespective of whether they are located in
the rural or urban areas. In addition, YGEC's tariffs should be designed to
ensure that the revenues generated would meet its long run financial
objectives. The British Electricity International (BEI), under financing
from the Government of the United Kingdom, has completed a study for the
formulation of cost-based tariffs. The study, however, underestimated
YGEC's financial requirements by basing the proposed tariff levels on YGEC's
short run rather than long run development program (isolated generators
rather than the central steam plant and the associated transmission net-
work). Accordingly, BEI is expected to redraft its study after taking into
account the Corporation's long run development program and its financial
objectives as agreed with IDA. The redrafting of BEI's study would take
about three man-months at a lump sum cost of about US$36,0OO in foreign
exchange which would be covered by the proposed Project. IDA has provided
YGEC with draft TOR for the tariff study. The Government and YGEC have
agreed to recruit the consultants for the tariff study by July 31, 1981 and
review with the Association by January 31, 1982, the Government's plans for
improving the structure of electricity tariffs which would be based on the
recommendations of the study.
E. The Beneficiary: YGEC
Organization and Management
1.16     YGEC policy is set by a Government-appointed Board of Directors
with a full-time chairman and deputy chairman. Under the general super-
vision of the chairman, a general manager is responsible for operational
matters, supported at the head office by a planning manager, a chief engi-
neer, a financial controller, an administrative manager, and a controller of
stores. YGEC operates through three autonomous regional offices (at Sana'a,
Taiz and Hodeida), and 20 branch offices (in large towns). The branch
managers report to the regional managers who in turn report to the general
manager. Each region has its own technical, administrative, accounting and
purchasing department. At present, the regional and branch managers operate
the system under their control independently; however, branch managers
depend on the regions for support in system planning, supply of materials,
billing and accounting. As the interconnected system evolves, YGEC would be
in a position to further centralize and structure its operations.



- 10 -
Development Programn
1.17     The long-term objective of the Government is to provide public
electricity service to all of YAR's population by consolidating the pre-
sently fragmented power subsector into a unified principally interconnected
national system under the control of YGEC. By 1998, the Government intends
for YGEC to provide electricity service to about 80% of YAR's population
(para. 1.04). This would involve: (a) the development of the national
interconnected system west of the transmission line connecting Saadah to
Taiz and 20 km to the east of it; and (b) the installation of isolated sys-
tems in the remote towns and villages north of Saadah and east of the line
(imaginary) connecting Saadah to Radaa (see map). The creation of YGEC and
the acquisition of 11 private electric enterprises was the first step
towards that end. In 1977 YGEC engaged Kennedy and Donkin (K&D, UK consult-
ing firm), in order to formulate a least-cost program (1978-1990) for the
development of the generation and transmission systems as well as the
distribution systems in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida. K&D's program was
reviewed by YGEC and IDA and was found to be acceptable and consistent with
technical and economic criteria needed to ensure that its implementation
would provide elecitricity service at least cost to the economy. The program
for the developmeni: of generation includes an oil-fired plant at Ras Katenib
(5 x 30 MW) to be installed by 1983 and another oil-fired plant at Mocha
(3 x 40 MW) to be commissioned after 1987 (see map). 1/ Detailed engineer-
ing design, and se:Lection of contractors and suppliers for the plant at Ras
Katenib were completed in 1979. The contracts for the supply of the
mechanical and electrical equipment have been awarded. Excavation at the
site is completed and civil works have already started. It is currently
estimated that the first unit at Ras Katenib would be commissioned by 1983,
instead of 1980, as was originally planned. As for the power plant at
Mocha, YGEC is making preliminary plans for commissioning the first unit of
this plant by 1987. In our view, however, and based on technical and finan-
cial grounds, this plant would not be required until 1990. As an interim
measure, and in order for YGEC to cope with the growing demand until 1984
when Ras Katenib would be in full operation, 32 diesel generators (75 MW)
are in the process of being installed of which 20 (25 MW) would be in iso-
lated centers and 12 (50 MW) in Sana'a (4 x 5 MW), Hodeida (3 x 5 MW), Taiz
(2 x 5 MW and 2 x 1.2 MW), and Saadah (1 x 1.2 MW). These units would be in
full operation by 1981. When all units of the Ras Katenib plant are commis-
sioned, diesel generators smaller than 2.5 MW at Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida,
would be moved to other isolated locations.
1.18     The program for the development of the transmission system consists
of two phases. The first phase involves the construction of two lines
1/ K&D has designated the proposed plant at Mocha as oil fired rather than
coal because the Government is in the process of building oil-storage
facilities at Mocha. In addition, since the plant is relatively small,
they considered that the cost of building the infrastructure needed to
handle the coa:L would make this alternative uneconomic.



- 11 -
(double-circuit 132 kV) which would connect Ras Katenib to the major load
centers: one would end at Hodeida, and the other would reach Damar, then
branch north to Amran, (north of Sana'a) and south to Taiz (see map). The
first phase is expected to be in operation by 1983. The second phase of
the transmission development program would connect Taiz to Mocha power
station, Saadah to Amran and close the loop with a line between Bajil and
Mufraq (see map). Initial studies for this phase would begin in 1981.
When fully implemented, the two phases of transmission development program
would be accessible to the most densely populated areas of YAR (about 70%
of the population by 1996).
1.19     The program for the development of the distribution systems formu-
lated by K&D involved only the three major cities. In order to expand and
complement this program, YGEC commissioned a study to be undertaken by the
National Rural Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA, a US firm) for
integrating the development program for generation and transmission formu-
lated by K&D with a comprehensive long-term National Electrification
Program (NEP). The NEP was reviewed by IDA and was found to be accept-
able. It outlines a least-cost path for the expansion of YGEC's system
outside the three major cities. The main criterion used for formulating
the NEP was that the set of villages it designates for electrification, by
connection to the national grid or an isolated system, would maximize the
expected benefits to the beneficiaries while imposing the least cost on the
economy. The benefits are taken as the revenue accruing from the future
sale of electricity and the net saving in the alternative fuels resulting
from the substitution of public supply of electricity for the individually
generated electricity. The NEP would be implemented over a period of 18
years; however, to facilitate its implementation, it is divided into phases
with the villages in the first phase having the highest benefits, the
villages in the second phase having lower benefits than those in the first
phase, and so on. As an interim measure, however, the formulation of the
NEP allows for the extension of YGEC's electricity service, within the next
five years, to the principal villages by installing isolated generating
plants and the allied distribution networks. Later on, as the various
phases of the generation and transmission development program are com-
pleted, the same villages would be connected to the national grid and their
generating units would be moved to other villages which are not serviced by
YGEC.
Manpower and Training
1.20     Manpower:  Currently, YGEC has 1,271 employees of which 36 are
engineers, 476 administrative, 54 foremen and the remaining 711 semi-
skilled and unskilled staff. Of YGEC's total labor force, 37 are at the
head office in Sana'a and the remaining 1,240 are at the regional and
branch offices. One of the most serious constraints that continues to face
YGEC is the shortage of technically qualified personnel. The Corporation
has had difficulties in recruiting staff in either the local or the inter-
national markets. So far, YGEC has managed after several years of efforts,
to recruit only few young Yemeni engineers. YGEC has had lesser success in
recruiting staff for the vacancies at the middle management level. This



- 12 -
is particularly true for the positions of planning engineer, commercial
manager, financial controller and accountants. As a result, the Corpora-
tion relies on a critical number of expatriate staff and consultants for
the highly technicaL operational matters. At present, 25 expatriates and
two consulting firms (K&D and NRECA) are managing the technical affairs of
the Corporation. The services provided by the expatriates and the two con-
sulting firms are good and should enable YGEC to progress towards achieving
its long-term objective. YGEC's dependency on expatriate expertise is
expected to continue for the next five years while its local staff would be
trained in the various aspects relating to the operation and management of
a modern electric utility.
1.21     By contrast, YGEC had no difficulty in recruiting semi-skilled and
unskilled personnel. At present, the Corporation has to employ a dispro-
portionately large number of semi-skilled and unskilled staff as indicated
by the volume of electricity sales per employee (ratio of sales per
employee is 80 MWh compared to 130 MWh for Syria and 260 MWh for Egypt).
There are three main reasons for the disproportionately large number of
unskilled and semi-skilled laborers employed by YGEC; (a) the need by the
Corporation to provide counterpart staff to the contractors involved in the
construction of the generating plant, and transmission and distribution
systems; (b) the duplication of staff necessary to man the independently
operated small isolated systems; and (c) the total dependence of the
Corporation on manual practices for the preparation of electricity bills.
As YGEC's interconnected system evolves, the ratio of sales per employee
would improve because the number of isolated systems operated by the
Corporation would decline and a large number of the staff currently being
used in implementing the construction program would be released to meet the
manpower requirement of the construction sector. YGEC is also in the
process of deciding on a system for mechanizing its billing operation which
would be implemented within the next 2 to 3 years (para 3.06). The mechan-
ization of the billing operations is expected to reduce significantly the
size of YGEC's clerical staff.
1.22     Training:  In an effort to overcome the shortage of qualified
personnel, YGEC initiated in 1976 a program for the training of middle
level technical staff. Under financial assistance from IDA (para. 1.24)
and bilateral aid agencies (para. 1.23), the scope of this program was
widened and it currently provides training in Yemen and abroad to various
levels of staff. [n addition to the provisions of this program, the sup-
pliers of the electrical and mechanical equipment for the power plant at
Ras Katenib would provide training to YGEC's staff abroad, while Hawker
Siddely (UK firm) the contractor for the erection of the distribution net-
works in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida would provide on-the-job training for the
technical staff.
1.23     Training in Yemen would be provided by the newly constructed YGEC
training center at Dhahban (suburb of Sana'a), which can accommodate 84
resident trainees. This center will start functioning in early 1981 and
for the first three years will be operated by a staff provided by



- 13 -
Electricite de France (EdF) under financing from the French Cooperative
program. The center would provide a one-year practical training in
engineering to 36 persons, upgrade the training of another 108 employees
through short-term courses and offer courses for improving the capabilities
of YGEC staff in the English language. In addition to training YGEC's
staff, the center would also train persons (as facilities permit) to be
employed by other sectors of the economy.
1.24     Training of YGEC's staff abroad is mostly covered by Credit
837-YAR. This program involves the training of: (a) managers of regional
offices; (b) a planning engineer; (c) engineers of different disciplines
for the operation of the new steam power plant (Ras Katenib); (d) a distri-
bution systems design engineer; and (e) accountants and storekeepers.
Implementation of this program has been slow mainly because of the shortage
of trainable staff. Currently a Yemeni engineer is being trained in
Germany in the design of distribution systems, 10 employees (accountants,
storekeepers and technicians) are about to be sent to Jordan for training
by the Jordanian Electricity Authority, and another 10 of YGEC's adminis-
trative and technical staff would be sent shortly to France to be trained
by EdF. In addition, the proposed Project would provide badly needed
on-the-job training to YGEC's staff in the installation and operation of
distribution equipment (para. 2.09).
F. The Past and Future Involvement of IDA in the Energy Sector
1.25     YGEC's 1978-1983 program for the construction of its inter-
connected system involves: (a) the construction of a thermal power plant at
Ras Katenib; (b) the installation of about 75 MW of diesel generation of
which 25 MW for 12 isolated demand centers and 50 MW for the urban centers
(para. 1.17); (c) the construction of about 200 km of 132 kV transmission
line connecting Hodeida, Dhamar, Sana'a, Amran and Taiz to Ras Katenib; and
(d) the rehabilitation of the distribution systems in the cities of Sana'a,
Taiz and Hodeida. The power plant, the diesel generators, and the trans-
mission line has been financed by the Arab Fund, the Saudi Fund, suppliers'
credit (OECF of Japan and AMN of Italy), the Government and YGEC.
1.26     IDA's first credit for Power (Credit 837-YAR) provided, in 1978,
US$10 million to cover part of the foreign exchange cost of a project
involving the rehabilitation of the distribution networks of Sana'a, Taiz
and Hodeida, the training of the staff of YGEC abroad (paras. 1.22 and
*          1.24), and a study by NRECA for the formulation of the NEP (para. 1.19).
The Project was cofinanced by the Netherlands, the Government and YGEC.
The implementation of the Project has been slow because of difficulties
experienced by YGEC in completing the financing package. The Government,
in particular, has been slow in providing, as agreed with IDA, the local
funds needed for the project. Until recently, there was a gap in the
financing of the Project of about US$19.1 million of which US$12.6 million
was in foreign exchange and US$6.5 million of local costs. This gap



- 14 -
represented the cost of construction and the construction equipment. YGEC
has now reached an agreement with Hawker Siddeley for the construction of
the Project under which 85% (US$18.5 million) of the financial gap would be
covered through financing provided by that firm, and the remaining 15% by
YGEC and the Government. As a result, it is now expected that the Project
would be completed by the end of 1983 instead of 1981 as was originally
scheduled. To guard against similar delays in the proposed Project because
of difficulties in completing its financial package, the signing of agree-
ment with the cofinanciers would be a condition for the effectiveness of
the proposed Credit (para. 3.09).
1.27     The continued involvement of IDA in the energy sector is essential
as a means of providing financing that would attract other cofinanciers,
but more importantly, it would ensure the institutional development of the
sector.
II. THE PROJECT
The Setting
2.01     About 20% of the population of YAR have access to electricity
(June 1980), but of these, only 9% are served by YGEC. Access to YGEC's
service in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida is 60% compared to only 3.3% outside
these cities. The relatively low access to YGEC's service outside the
three major cities persists despite the fact that there are towns with
substantial underutilized generating capacity (for some as high as 400% of
peak demand) where YGEC would have been able to extend its service without
substantial investment, if the distribution systems were not overloaded.
At the outskirts oil the urban areas, (farmers' markets) consumers cannot be
served because of the dilapidated state of distribution equipment, while in
large villages with substantial demand for electricity for domestic uses
and irrigation pumping, proliferation of generation by consumers continues
as the only alternative for a public electricity supply.
Project Objectives
2.02     The Project is specifically aimed at meeting some of the demand
for electricity outside the three cities. It would enable YGEC to increase
it sales (revenues) by taking advantage of existing equipment that is
underutilized and serve potential customers with relatively high demand
that would otherwise resort to generating their own electricity. The
Project would smooth the transition from the existing system of isolated
generation to the interconnected system, and when completed, it would



- 15 -
extend electricity service to about 17,000 new customers and upgrade the
service for another 5,200 existing customers. The total beneficiaries from
the Project would amount to about 130,000 rural inhabitants.
Project Scope and Location
2.03     The Project is the first phase of the NEP (para. 1.19).  It would
affect 17 villages and the three principal farmers' markets at the out-
skirts of the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida. The Project would take
about three years to implement (1981-1983). It would extend electricity
service to the beneficiaries by: (a) expanding the distribution network in
the villages of Yarim, Anis Duran, Saadah, Radaa, Zabid, Manakhah, Sherqi,
Bait Shamran, Zurajah, Al Gaif, Habban, Al Khabar and Karn Al Asad, and
connecting them to nearby existing generating facilities with underutilized
capacities; (b) installing small generators and constructing new distribu-
tion networks in Hazm Al Jawf, Marib and the suburbs of Zabid to accommo-
date the existing relatively high demand for electricity; (c) rehabilitat-
ing and reinforcing the distribution networks in the farmers' markets in
the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida to provide electricity for the
existing demand that is suppressed; and (d) constructing the subtransmis-
sion line (33-kV) and the distribution network in Bani Hushaysh and Mabar.
Project Description
2.04     The Project consists of about 66 km of 33 kV lines, 190 km of 11
kV lines, 520 km of 220 V wall-mounted cable, 74 (3 phase) and 240 (single
phase) distribution transformers (total capacity 15.5 MVA), 2,300 street-
lights, 3 generating units (one 1,200 kW and two 100 kW), erection and
installation and civil works associated with these facilities, consulting
services for Project engineering and construction supervision, and the
studies for the pricing of energy and electricity.
Project Cost
2.05     The estimated cost of the Project, excluding interest during
construction, is YRls 96.8 million (US$21.5 million), of which YRls 73.6
million (US$16.35 million) would be in foreign exchange. The proposed IDA
credit would cover US$12.0 million of the total foreign exchange cost of
the Project, the remaining foreign exchange and local cost amounting to
US$9.5 million would be covered by cofinanciers and the Government (para.
3.09). The approximate breakdown of the Project cost is summarized below:



- 16 -
YRls Million        US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
a.  Subtransmission & Distribution
Equipment & material              -      33.30   33.30    -        7.40    7.40
Erection & installation          6.26   12.60   18.86   1.39    2.80    4.19
Civil works                      4.32    1.80    6.12   0.96    0.40    1.36
Engineering                      0.77    3.60    4.37   0.17    0.80    0.97
Construction supervision         1.35    2.66    4.01   0.30    0.59    0.89
Studies                          0.14    0.54    0.68   0.03    0.12    0.15
Base Cost                     12.84   54.50   67.34   2.85   12.11   14.96
Physical contingencies           1.35    5.09    6.44   0.30    1.13    1.43
Subtotal                      14.19   59.59   73.78   3.15   13.24   16.39
Price contingencies              7.74    9.95   17.69   1.72    2.21    3.93
Subtotal Distribution         21.93   69.54   91.47   4.87   15.45   20.32
b.  Isolated Systems
Equipment & material              -       2.70    2.70    -        0.60    0.60
Erection & installation          0.27    0.18    0.45   0.06    0.04    0.10
Civil works                      0.36    0.23    0.59   0.08    0.05    0.13
Construction supervision         0.14    0.09    0.23   0.03    0.02    0.05
Base Cost                      0.77    3.20    3.97   0.17    0.71    0.88
Physical contingencies           0.09    0.36    0.45   0.03    0.08    0.11
Subtotal                       0.86    3.56    4.42   0.20    0.79    0.99
Price contingencies              0.41    0.50    0.91   0.08    0.11    0.19
Subtotal Isolated Systems    1.27    4.06    5.33   0.28    0.90    1.18
TOTAL PROJECT COST            23.20   73.60   96.80   5.15   16.35   21.50
2.06     According to the law in YAR governing the importation of goods for
development oriented projects, YGEC is exempt from the payment of customs
duties on all equipment and material needed for the proposed Project. The
Project cost estimates, net of taxes and customs duties, were developed by
the NRECA based on prices quoted (for the base cost) on contracts for
equipment and material to be delivered on December 1980 (Annexes 2.1 and
2.2). Physical contingencies of 8% for equipment and materials and 10% for
civil works were assumed in developing these costs. The contingencies are
reasonable in light of the fact that Project engineering is at an advanced
state of preparation which reduces the chances of an error in estimating
the equipment and materials required, as well as the civil works involved.
Price contingencies for the local cost components have been calculated at
27% in 1981, 22% in 1982 and 20% in 1983. Price contingencies for the
foreign cost components have been calculated at 9.0% for 1981,  8% for 1982
and 7% for 1983. According to the estimated cost of the Project, the aver-
age cost per connection (based on 22,000 potential customers) would be
about YRIs 4,400 (US$980). The figure compares favorably with the cost of
similar projects i-inanced by the Bank Group in the region (Morocco
US$1,400, Syria US$1,300, Jordan US$960). If, however, the farmer's
markets which are densely populated are excluded from the computation, the
average cost per connection would be about US$1,370.



- 17 -
Engineering and Construction Supervision
2.07     Status of Project Preparation:  Under Credit 837-YAR, funds were
provided for a feasibility study of rural electrification. The work was
undertaken by NRECA as part of a contract which additionally included the
first phase of the preparatory work for the proposed Project comprising
the preparation of model bidding documents and proposals for strengthening
of institutional arrangements. The Project is currently at an advanced
stage of preparation. Under an extension of the existing contract, NRECA
would prepare by January 1981, the detailed design, confirm the quantities
of equipment and material, and prepare specifications and bidding documents
for their procurement (see Implementation Schedule, Annex 2.4). In imple-
mentation of the extended contract, NRECA would conduct detailed surveys of
all the Project areas, train YGEC's survey crews, prepare a critical path
for Project implementation, and assist YGEC in the evaluation of bids. The
TOR for the scope of this work has been reviewed and approved by IDA during
appraisal and it is estimated that these TOR would require 36 man-months of
consulting services to complete, costing about US$275,000 in foreign
exchange. YGEC, assisted by NRECA, has already completed the reconnais-
sance of the sites (field investigations), basic engineering design for the
networks (electrical layout plans), and preliminary estimates of equipment
and material required to implement the Project. To expedite Project imple-
mentation, IDA has provided US$800,000 from the Project Preparation
Facility to finance the foreign exchange costs of; (i) the preparatory work
for the proposed Project which has been done by NRECA under their first
contract and which is not being financed under Credit 837-YAR; and (ii) the
additional work of preparation of the proposed Project, to be done by NRECA
under their extended contract.
2.08     Construction Supervision:  YGEC is currently negotiating with
NRECA a contract for the supervision of Project implementation. The con-
struction supervision contract would require about 70 man-months at a total
foreign exchange cost of about US$590,000 (on the average $8,429 per man-
month) including staff salaries, social costs, firm's overhead and fee,
overseas allowance, and international travel. This cost would be covered
by the proposed project. Supervision of Project implementation would in-
volve advisory services for handling the material and equipment, storage,
handling and inventory control, and assistance to YGEC in monitoring the
progress of Project implementation and preparing quarterly progress reports
for IDA. The Association has reviewed with YGEC, NRECA's TOR and manpower
schedule of the contract for the supervision of Project implementation and
YGEC would employ by June 30, 1981 consultants satisfactory to the
Association in order to assist the corporation in supervision of Project
implementation.
Project Implementation, Ownership and Operation
2.09     The rural distribution department (RDD) of YGEC is severely under-
staffed. There are presently two engineers and two technicians (all expa-
triates) at the head office in Sana'a. Implementation of projects outside
the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida is undertaken by two small crews
with a total of 4 technicians, of which 3 are Yemeni, and about 25 semi-



- 18 -
skilled and unskilled employees. The engineers at the head office are
responsible for the engineering design and construction supervision, and
the crews are entrusted with the construction of the network. In addition,
the RDD suffers from inadequate supply of equipment and tools needed for
the installation and construction of networks. YGEC's efforts in recruit-
ing local qualified staff have been fruitless. As a result, the engineer-
ing design of the distribution network is inadequate, the equipment and
material used are not standardized, and network construction is poor. This
necessitates the services of an engineering construction firm for imple-
menting the proposed Project. Given the pressing needs for training, the
engineering construction firm would also provide on-the-job training to
YGEC's staff.  In order to ensure the orderly implementation of the pro-
posed Project, and to develop an appropriate institution responsible for
implementing the NEP, a Project Unit would be created at the head office of
YGEC. The unit will be headed by a Project Manager with qualifications
acceptable to the Association and would be staffed with engineers and
support staff whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to
the Association. The Project Unit is expected to develop in the long run
as a distinct department in YGEC responsible for the implementation of the
NEP. The Project manager would report to YGEC's chief engineer and would
be assisted by the engineers of the construction supervision consultant
(NRECA) in supervising Project implementation and ensuring that progress of
work adheres to the critical path prepared by NRECA. The execution of the
Project would be entrusted to a construction contractor with the provision
that, to the extent possible, its local staff would be drawn from YGEC's
personnel. The total cost of the installation and erection contract is
estimated at US$6.04 million, including contingencies, of which about
US$3.64 million would be in foreign exchange. The establishment of the
Project unit and the appointment of the Project manager is a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
Procurement
2.10     Except as indicated below, contracts financed under the proposed
Credit both for the supply of equipment and materials, and for erection and
installation and civil works, would be let by international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines for procurement. The
successful bidder for the erection and installation and civil works
contract would be responsible for executing the Project and to that end
would provide the necessary personnel (experts) and incidental distribution
material and equipment, other than the material and equipment supplies
under individual tenders. Procurement of small quantities of standard
distribution equipment and materials, not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent
in total, would be permitted in accordance with international shopping,
after inviting quotations from at least three manufacturers.
Disbursement
2.11     Disbursements from the proceeds of the proposed Credit would be
made for: (a) 100% of the foreign cost of equipment and material (US$9.8
million); (b) 10% of the total cost of erection and installation, and civil



- 19 -
works contract (US$0.6 million); and 100% of the foreign cost of consulting
services (US$1.6 million). After the cofinanciers decide on the components
of the Project that would be covered by their loans, there might be a need
to reallocate the proceeds of the proposed Credit between components. The
expected disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 2.3. The closing date
would be December 31, 1984.
Environmental Aspects
2.12     The Project has no adverse pollution effects on the environment.
Possible adverse aesthetic effects would be kept to a minimum by suitable
routing of overhead lines. The social environment will be enhanced by
bringing street-lighting to the residential areas affected.
Risks
2.13     There are no major risks associated with this Project.  However,
there are two possible sources of delays: (a) in the completion dates for
the steam power plant at Ras Katenib; and (b) in the commissioning of the
associated transmission lines connecting Ras Katenib to the main load
centers. These delays would deprive Bani Hushaysh and Mabar of power from
the central power station (para. 2.03). However, this would not be
significant since Bani Hushaysh would be served from Sana'a and Mabar from
Damar, both through the 33-kV transmission lines included in the Project
(see map).
III. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Past performance
Introduction
3.01     YGEC increased electricity tariffs from an average of 60 fils/kWh
in 1975 to an average of 105 fils/kWh in 1980, an increase of 75%; but only
achieved an average financial rate of return of about 5% on unrevalued
assets (estimated to be the equivalent of 4% on revalued assets) during
this period. The First Power Project, the central station near Hodeida and
the associated transmission lines have been delayed by about two years
because of difficulties experienced by YGEC in completing the financing
package for the Project. These changes have adversely affected YGEC's
financial position by limiting sales and revenues.
Accounting System
3.02     YGEC has a satisfactory system of accounts, which was established
in 1976, based on a system of utility accounting recommended by Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell & Co. (UK consultants). The consultant's recommendations



- 20 -
also covered the sitaffing and the training required for the implementation
of the accounting system. YGEC has had moderate success in recruiting
staff for the recommended positions. The Financial Manager's position was
filled in 1979 by a qualified expatriate (Sudan); however, YGEC has not
been able to fill the position of Chief Accountant. As a result, the
Financial Manager has had to assume the responsibilities of the Chief
Accountant in addition to his duties. Nevertheless, the Financial Manager
has been able to effect improvements in YGEC's accounting work. BEI is
currently assisting YGEC in recruiting a qualified Chief Accountant in the
United Kingdom.
3.03     Beginning July 1, 1980, YGEC changed its fiscal year from July 1
to June 30, to the calendar year. Accordingly YGEC will prepare financial
statements for the last 6 months of 1980 (July 1, 1980 to December 31,
1980) and then also for the fiscal year January 1, 1980 to December 31,
1980.
Revaluation of Assets
3.04     Under Credit 837-YAR, YGEC was required to revalue its assets with
effect from FY79/80 in accordance with methods acceptable to the Associa-
tion. As agreed with the Association, YGEC would apply the following
method for revaluing its electric plant assets in service: (a) YGEC would
determine the amount of foreign costs and local costs of electric plant
assets in service as of June 30, 1980; (b) the foreign costs of the assets
in service would be revalued by applying the "Index of International Infla-
tion, 1955-1990" published by the United Nations; and the local costs would
be revalued by applying the "Index of Labor Costs in Yemen Arab Republic"
issued by the Ministry of Economy; and (c) YGEC would review the revalua-
tion process each year and would revalue its assets in any year in which
either of the above two indices has increased by more than 15X since the
date of the last revaluation. Revaluation of assets in accordance with the
agreed principles and procedures would be followed up during supervision.
Auditing
3.05     Under Credit 837-YAR of July 1978, YGEC is required to submit to
the Association its annual financial statements as audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association, and the audit report within 6
months after the end of each fiscal yar. The present audit arrangements,
under which a Khartoum-based firm of auditors associated with Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell & Co. (Abdel Latif Eltayib and Co.) audits its accounts,
are satisfactory. Although there have been delays in audit in the past
(e.g., a delay of 6 months in submitting the audit report for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1979), it is expected that with the improvement in its
accounting work, YGEC would be able to submit its audited accounts to the
Association within the prescribed period of 6 months after the end of the
fiscal year. The existing audit covenant would be repeated in the proposed
Credit.



- 21-
Collection of Electricity Supply Bills
3.06     Under Credit 837-YAR, YGEC is required to ensure that its accounts
receivable for electricity supply do not exceed 60 days' billings. As of
June 30, 1979, the latest date as of which accounts have been prepared,
YGEC was in compliance with this covenant because its receivables as of
that date were the equivalent of only 56 days' sales. This covenant would
be repeated in the proposed Credit. YGEC's collection of bills is central-
ized at its 3 regional offices where bills are prepared manually. Accord-
ing to the loan agreements of February 25, 1976 with the Arab and Saudi
Funds covering the financing of the power plant at Ras Katenib and the
associated transmission lines, YGEC was required to introduce a mechanized
billing system one year after the signing of the loan agreements. However,
YGEC has not yet introduced such a system. In 1978 BEI undertook a study,
financed by the British Government, aimed at improving YGEC's commercial
practices, which recommended the computerization of the billing opera-
tions. It is, however, unlikely that YGEC would be able to implement a
computerized system for billing within the next 2 or 3 years because of the
shortage of Yemenis who are trained in the operation of computers. As an
alternative, YGEC was advised by IDA to implement a mechanized billing
system which is somewhere between the wholly manual system existing now and
the highly sophisticated system proposed by BEI. The mechanized system
could later be upgraded as YGEC trains and develops the capabilities of
its staff in this area. YGEC is reviewing this proposal and intends to
approach several bilateral agencies for the required billing equipment and
for training its staff in its use. YGEC would reach a final decision on
the billing system not later than June 30, 1981.
Financial Rate of Return
3.07     Under Credit 837-YAR, YGEC is required to earn a minimum rate of
return of 8% on revalued assets starting from the fiscal year 1979/1980.
When this covenant was agreed, it was expected that the first unit of the
power plant at Ras Katenib and the associated transmission would be com-
pleted by 1980 (para. 1.17 and 1.18). These additions would have enabled
YGEC to reduce its costs of operations and increase electricity sales in
the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida which account for 80% of YGEG's
sales. However, sales have not kept pace with the substantial investments
YGEC has had to undertake to consolidate its position and to extend service
to the population. Its fixed assets (unrevalued) increased by 900% between
1976 and 1980 but its sales increased by only 300% (from 37 GWh to 125
GWh). The principal reason for YGEC's inability to generate sales com-
mensurate with the increase in assets is the poor state of its distribution
systems. The distribution systems are overloaded and are in a poor state
of maintenance with the result that, although there are excess generating
capacities, the consumers cannot be supplied with electricity. This is
particularly true in the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida. The slippage
of the first power project which would have allowed YGEC to increase its
sales significantly in the three cities by capitalizing on existing excess
generating capacity has aggravated YGEC's difficulties. The result is that



- 22 -
despite increases in its tariffs by 75% in the period 1975-1980 (see table
below for details), YGEC's rate of return on revalued assets was only about
3.2% in 1979/80 compared with the required 8% return. Under the proposed
Project, the rate oi return covenant would be modified, see para. 3.11.
Average Tariffs of YGEC during 1975-1980
Average Tariff/kWh
Year                 (fils)              (us$)
1975                   60*                 .13*
1976                   65*                 .14*
1977                   70*                 .16*
1978                   85*                 .19*
1979                  100*                 .22*
1980                  100 for urban and  .22 for urban and
150 for rural        .33 for rural
* Applied to urban and rural.
Financing of Power E'roject I
3.08     The first power project is expected to be completed in 1983 instead
of 1981 as estimated. during appraisal (para. 1.26). The delay has arisen
mainly because of the difficulties in completing the financing package
comprising the Netherlands loan and suppliers' credits. In addition, the
Government has not provided YGEC with its share of the local cost as agreed
with IDA. The current Project cost based on contracts awarded and its
financing are summarized below:
Cost Estimates of Power Project I
(US$ Million)
Local      Foreign      Total        X
Government Equity contribution            3.2         -           3.2        8
Borrowing
IDA Credit                               -           10.0        10.0       24
Netherlands                               1.1         8.9        10.0       24
Supplier's Credit                        5.9        12.6         18.5       44
TOTAL COST                         10.2        31.5        41.7      100
Financing for the total costs of the Project, both foreign and local, is
complete, since firm arrangements have been made for financing the total
foreign costs and the Government has agreed to cover the balance of the
local costs amounting to US$3.2 million equivalent.



- 23 -
B. Project Financing
Financing Plan
3.09     The Project cost excluding interest during construction would be
financed as follows:
YRIs Million          US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total
YGEC                         1.80      -         1.80    0.40       -        0.40
Customers' contributions   4.95       -         4.95    1.10        -        1.10
Proposed IDA Credit          -       54.00    54.00    -           12.00   12.00
Other Cofinanciers          16.45 /1 19.60    36.05    3.65 /1   4.35    8.00
Total Cost of the Project 23.20    73.60    96.80    5.15          16.35   21.50
/1  Part of the local cost may be financed by Government.
The Government and YGEC have reviewed with the Association the financing
plan for the proposed Project. The Government and YGEC would cover any cost
overruns that may arise in carrying out the Project. The Federal Republic
of Germany has indicated its willingness to provide US$6.0 million to
finance both foreign and local costs. In addition, the Government proposes
to approach the Dutch aid agency which has also shown some interest in the
Project. The signing of agreements with cofinanciers to complete the
financing package for the proposed Project would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed Credit. To ensure timely provision of local funds,
the Government would establish a special account at the Central Bank of
Yemen in the name of YGEC, to be used exclusively by YGEC to make payments
in Yemeni Rials for local expenditures on account of the Project. The
Government would deposit in this account on the first day of each month suf-
ficient amounts to meet payments by YGEC for expenditures under the Project
for the following three months as reasonably estimated by YGEC; and YGEC
would maintain records adequate to reflect all withdrawals and deposits in
the special account. Establishment of this special account would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Lending Arrangement
3.10     The proposed Credit of US$12 million would be made available to the
Government which would on-lend it to YGEC. The terms for the on-lending
arrangement would be 20 years, including a five-year grace period, and a
rate of interest of 7 l/2%. Payment of interest by YGEC during the grace
period would be deferred and the amount capitalized and added to the amount
of the loan from the Government to YGEC, repayable over 15 years. This
would relieve YGEC of the burden of the interest during the difficult period



- 24 -
through 1986, i.e., until the time when its interconnected system would be
substantially in operation and thus would generate enough cash flow to meet
its interest obligations.
C. Future Financial Performance
3.11     From the income statements of YGEC for 1980 (July-December), and                    J
for the years from 1981 to 1986 (Annex 3.1), it will be seen that with the
present level of tariffs, YGEC is expected to earn a return of only 3-4%
during the period :1980 through 1983. For YGEC to earn the required return
of 8% on revalued assets in 1981, its tariffs would have to be nearly
doubled from the present average rate of US$0.23/kWh to US$0.47/kWh. A
tariff increase of this magnitude is not desirable because: (a) it would
encourage more private generation of electricity, which would be wasteful of
the country's energy resources; and (b) YGEC's serious financial con-
straints would significantly ease after 1983 and it would be imprudent to
raise its tariffs so much merely to overcome a short-term problem. It is
expected that when the central power plant and the distribution networks in
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida are expanded and connected to the interconnected
system by 1983, YGEC would be in a position to increase its sales and
improve its earnings significantly without any increase in tariffs. There-
fore, the existing rate of return objective would be scaled down to a
minimum of 3% on revalued assets during 1980 (six months), 1981, 1982 and
1983, and YGEC would be required to reach a minimum return of 8% in stages
by 1986, say, 5% in 1984, 6% in 1985, and 8% in 1986. It should be pos-
sible for YGEC to achieve these targets while maintaining the tariffs at the
present high level except for fuel adjustment charges levied to compensate
for fuel cost increases. Thus, YGEC should be able to consolidate its
position and slowly become a financially viable entity during the period
1981-1986. The Government and YGEC have agreed to take all necessary
measures, including tariff increases, if necessary, to enable YGEC to earn a
return on revalued assets of not less than 3% in 1981, 1982 and 1983, and
not less than 5% in 1984, 6% in 1985, and 8% in 1986 and thereafter.
3.12     Although, if YGEC achieves the above rates of return, its cash
generation, including customer's contributions, would be relatively small
(16%) during the six-year period 1981-1986, this is acceptable since YGEC
would achieve this self-financing level despite the cash generation in
1981-1983 being only 4% of construction requirements (reflecting the low
return of 3-4% during this period). YGEC's financial condition during
1981-1986 would also be acceptable, with a debt/equity ratio ranging from
47/53 to 58/42 (Annex 3.2) and a current ratio of 1:1 or more. In view of
the need for ensuring a satisfactory financing plan for YGEC's operation and
construction activities each year, Government and YGEC would furnish to the
Association not later than November 30 of each year, beginning in 1981, a
suitable plan for meeting the agreed rate of return for the succeeding year,
showing the assumptions on which the plan is based and the measures to be
taken to fulfill the plan, and a financing plan for the construction
expenditures for that year.



- 25 -
Investment Program for 1981-1986
3.13      YGEC's estimated construction program for 1981-1986, excluding
interest during construction amounts to YRIs 2,248.1 million (US$499.6
million), and includes US$330.2 million for generation facilities
(including the proposed Mocha Plant), US$72.4 million for transmission
facilities, and US$97.0 million for distribution systems. YGEC's sources
and applications of funds statement for the fiscal years 1981-1986 are
shown in Annex 3.3.  The construction program and financing plan are
summarized below:
YRIs              US$              %
----(Millions)----
Requirements
Power Project I                               187.7             41.7              7
Proposed Project                               96.8              21.5             4
Other Construction                          1,963.6            436.4            75
Interest Charged to Construction              304.9              67.7           11
Increase in Working Capital                    75.0              16.7             3
Total Requirements                    2,628.0             584.0           100
Sources of Funds
Internal Sources:
Net Operating Income                        355.6             79.0
Depreciation                                211.4             47.0
Reserve for Staff Retirement                 33.0              7.3
Total Internal Cash Generation          600.0             133.3
Less Debt Service                          (299.2)           (66.4)
Net Internal Cash Generation            300.8              66.9            11
Customer Contributions                      139.9             31.1             5
Total Internal Sources                  440.7              98.0            16
Government Equity Contributions             787.5            175.0            30
Borrowings:
Proposed IDA Credit                          54.0             12.0             2
Other Borrowings                          1,345.8            299.0            52
Total Borrowings                       1,399.8            311.0            54
Total Sources                         2,628.0             584.0           100
The construction program, including interest charged to construction of
US$67.7 million and working capital increase of US$16.7 million, assumes
that Government would contribute as equity contributions US$175.0 million
(30%), YGEC's internal sources would provide US$98.0 million (16%), and
US$311.0 million (54%) would be raised through long term borrowing includ-
ing the proposed Credit of US$12 million. Of the total US$311.0 million
of long-term borrowing, US$143 million has been committed or agreed in
principle but no arrangement has been made for the remaining US$168
million, which is required for the proposed Mocha power plant and the
associated transmission lines to connect it to the interconnected system.



- 26 -
Debt Service Covenant
3.14      Under Credit 837-YAR, YGEC shall not incur any debt, except as the
Association may olherwise agree, unless YGEC's net revenues are at least
1.5 times the maximum debt service for any succeeding year. In order that
YGEC's assumption of debt obligations may be kept under review, the
existing debt service covenant would be repeated in the proposed Credit.
Insurance
3.15      YGEC insures its assets against the usual hazards of fire,
explosion, etc., t:hrough the Marib Insurance Company, which reinsures with
Lloyds of London. As agreed with the Arab Fund which cofinanced the Ras
Katenib plant and the transmission line, the insurance coverage requires
annual inspection of plant and equipment by qualified inspectors to ensure
that YGEC complies with sound public utility practices. YGEC would extend
such insurance coverage to the facilities constructed under the Project.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Load Forecast
4.01      The forecast of YGEC's sales is based on the historical rates of
growth observed between 1975 and 1980. It was derived on an aggregate
basis because details on the composition of YGEC's power market outside the
three principal cities are in the process of being developed by NRECA.
Sales are forecast to increase at an average annual rate of about 29%
between 1981 and 1986. This rate is comparable to the growth rates expe-
rienced by YGEC since 1978. Its attainment should be possible considering
the fact that the rehabilitation of the distribution networks in the three
main cities, and the power plant at Ras Katenib and associated transmis-
sion, would be completed during the forecast period. These facilities
together with the interim generation program and the proposed Project,
would enable YGEC to sustain its sales at the historical rates of growth
well into the late eighties.
4.02      The forecast of sales for the Project was derived by NRECA.  It is
based on data collected by the consultant and YGEC from 150 villages and
small towns in 21 of YAR's 213 administrative districts. The administra-
tive districts were selected to take account of the geographical disparity
in both the social and the economic structure of the country. From the
data collected three parameters were calculated to develop the forecast.
These are: (a) the initial connection rate; (b) the average consumption per
capita; and (c) the expected growth in the demand for electricity. The
initial connection rate refers to the percentage of the beneficiaries that
would be connected to YGEC's system during the first and second years once
service is made available. The average consumption per capita is an
aggregate measure of the uses of electricity for household purposes,



- 27 -
street-lighting, irrigation pumping and small commercial activities.  For
the proposed Project, the initial connection rate is expected to be about
37% for the first year and about 57% for the second year. The initial
consumption per consumer (household) is assumed to be about 550 kWh.
Finally, the growth of demand for electricity over the entire life of the
Project is assumed to be fairly modest averaging about 6% per year. On a
yearly basis, however, the growth in the demand is assumed to be 10% for
1985-1990, 6% for 1991-2000 and 3% thereafter (Annex 4.1).
B. Least Cost Alternative
4.03      The Project represents the first phase (1981-1983) of the 18-year
national program (NEP) for extending public supply of electricity through-
out YAR (para 1.19). The NEP was formulated by NRECA as a long-term
program whose implementation would impose the least cost on the economy.
It evolved as a result of a detailed engineering and economic study entail-
ing the evaluation of all feasible alternatives.   The NEP is designed in a
way that would allow its implementation in numerous phases. These phases
can be executed in sequence or in parallel. In addition, when each of the
phases is considered on its own merit, it would represent the least-cost
alternative for extending electricity service to the beneficiaries it would
affect (for details see para 1.19).
C. Return on Investment
4.04      The economic return on the investment is 16% which compares favor-
ably with an opportunity cost for capital of about 11%. It is based on the
measurable benefits and costs associated with the Project. In estimating
the benefits, YRls 2.0/kWh is taken a proxy for the consumers' willingness
to pay (WTP). The WTP is derived by calculating the weighted average of
the highest rate consumers pay for the electricity supplied by the small
entrepreneurs of YRls 2.5/kWh, and the lowest cost incurred by consumers in
generating electricity for their own use of YRls 1.62/kWh (para. 1.12).
The weights are based on the observation collected by NRECA through which
it was established that on the average, about 57% of those with access to
private electricity supply generated their own, and the remaining 43%
purchased it from small entrepreneurs. The customer connection charge of
YRls 600/customer, which represents the non-refundable portion of the total
connection charge of YRls 1,200/customer, is also taken as a benefit
because it constitutes a contribution by the beneficiaries towards the cost
of the equipment and material financed under the Project. The costs asso-
ciated with the Project which were expressed in terms of their equivalent
border values, include the capital cost, the operation and maintenance cost
and the cost of fuel. Since the benefits are projected over a period of 30
years, which extends beyond the expected life of both existing equipment
(sunk cost) and the Project facilities, the cost of replacing the services
of the depreciated equipment at the end of their economic life are included
in the analysis (for details, see Annex 4.1).



- 28 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     Government and YGEC will;
(a) appoint consultants for the tariff study by July 31, 1981, and
review with the Association by January 31, 1982, the Government's
plans to improve the structure of electricity tariffs in YAR on
the basis of the recommendations of the study (para. 1.15);
(b) cover any cost overruns that may arise in carrying out the Project
(para. 3.09);
(c) take all necessary measures, including tariff increases, if
required, to achieve a rate of return on revalued assets of not
less than 3% for the years 1981, 1982, and 1983 and of not less
than 5% for 1984, 6% for 1985, and 8% for 1986 and thereafter
(para. 3.11); and
(d) furnish to the Association not later than November 30 of each
year, beginning in 1981, a plan for YGEC to meet the agreed rate
of return for the next year, showing the assumptions on which the
plan is based and the measures necessary to fulfill the plan, and
a financing plan for the construction expenditure for that year
(para. 3.12).
5.02     Government will:
(a) appoint consultants for the energy pricing study by July 31, 1981,
and reviiew with the Association by December 31, 1982, its plan for
the rationalization of energy prices (para. 1.11);
(b) take all necessary steps, including the increase of prices for all
petroleum products and tariffs for electricity, to: (i) hold the
subsidy extended to YGEC for its consumption of diesel oil at the
level reached on June 30, 1981; (ii) ensure that no subsidy shall
be extended to YGEC for its future consumption of fuel oil; (iii)
introduce in YGEC's tariffs a fuel adjustment clause which would
enable YGEC automatically to pass on to its consumers all
increases in the cost of its fuels; and (iv) hold the burden of
the subsidy extended to all other consumers of petroleum products
at the level reached on June 30, 1981 (para. 1.11);
(c)  establish a special account at the Central Bank of Yemen in the
name of YGEC to be used exclusively by YGEC for local expenditures
on account of the Project, and the Government would deposit in
this account on the first day of each month sufficient amounts to
meet payments by YGEC for expenditures under the Project for the
following three months as reasonably estimated by YGEC (para.
3.09); and



- 29 -
(d)  on-lend the proposed Credit to YGEC with terms of repayment over 20
years, including a 5-year grace period at an annual rate of interest
of 7.5%. Payment of interest by YGEC during the grace period would
be deferred and the amount capitalized and added to the amount of
the loan, repayable over 15 years (para. 3.10).
5.03     YGEC will:
(a)  reach a final decision on the billing system not later than June 30,
1981 (para. 3.06);
(b)  ensure that its receivables for electricity supply shall at no time
exceed the equivalent of 60 days' sales (para. 3.06); and
(c)  extend insurance coverage to the Project facilities (para. 3.15).
5.04     The following covenants of Credit 837-YAR would be extended to the
proposed Credit:
(a)  the covenant on audit arrangements (para. 3.05); and
(b)  the covenant on debt service coverage (para. 3.14).
5.05     In view of the agreement reached above, the Project is suitable for
a Credit of US$12.0 million on the usual terms. The conditions for Credit
effectiveness would be:
(a)  the formation of a Project unit and the appointment of a manager for
the Project unit with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association (para. 2.09);
(b)  signing of agreements with cofinanciers to complete the financing
package for the proposed Project (para. 3.09); and
(c)  establishment of a special account as agreed for making payments of
local expenditures (para. 3.09).
The Credit is expected to become effective within 120 days of signing.
January 19, 1981



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
RURAL ELECTRIDFICATTON PROJECT
Uhified Power System
Installed Generating Capacity-Peak Demand-Actual and Forecast System Loads
Installed      Capacity       Peak        Load                         Gross         Bulk         Distribution
Capacity       Additionr      Demand/l   Factor        No. of       GeaterAtion     Supply           bosses           Sales
Fiscal Year          (NW)           (m)           (MWrL      jN          Customers        (MWh)          (MWh)
Actual
June 1975             11.4           2.5         10.0        49.3          30,7r00        45,000       43,200            22.0            33,700
June 1976             13.9           5.4         12.2        4400          33,400         49,020       47,050            22.0            36,700
June 1977             19.3          24.o         16.9        4008          42,ooo         62,000       60,420            23.7            46,loo
June 1978             43.3          12.4         21.9        41.8          53,200         83,730       80,190            21.2            63,170
June 1979             55.7          33.9         30.0        43.7          66,700        120,000      114,930            30.0            80,430
June 1980             89.6           2.4         40.5        44.8          80,700        166,000      158,990            21.6          124,650
Calendar Year
Forecast
December 1980         92.0          35.0         50.0         43.7         97,600        100,000        95,700           21.7            75,000
December 1981        127.0           1.7         67.0         44.3        118,00o        250,000      239,uO0            21.8           187,000
December 1982 2      128.4                /      92.0         44.7        143 003        314,000      300,000            21.7           234,000
December 1983        128.14              1321724,0
150.0        J 17.        1 44.9      172,000         405,000      388,000            21.6          304,000
December 1984        278.4             -        147.0         43.5        208,000        462,000      442,000            19.2           357,000
December 1985        278.4             -        176.0         44.1        253,000        561,000      537,000            18.0           440,000
December 1986        278.4             _        208.0         46.1        306,000        693,000      663,000            18.0           544,000
/1 Maximum demand includes 95% coincidence factor and power losses in transmission.
T Interconnection between Ras Katenib power ssation, Hodeida, Dhamar, Sana'a and Amran is expected to be completed
by late 1982.
A New Central Generating Steam Piant (5x30  Mi) at Ras Katenib.  Al  other units are diesel.
December 1980



- 31 -                                  ANNEX 2.1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Development of Project Cost Estimates
Cost of Erec-
Cost of Material          tion & Installation
Total        Unit Price    Total        Unit Price       Total
Material                 Quantities         ($)        ($'000)         ($)          ($'000)
Generating Sets
1,200 kW                           1              420         504                           100
100 kW                             2              480          96                           180
Subtotal               3                          600                           280
O.H. Lines (km)
33 kV                             66           12,300         812          15,700         1,036
11 kV - 3x95 mm2                121            11,400       1,379           9,000         1,179
11 kV - 3x35 mm2                  29            6,400         186           7,700           223
11 kV - 2x35 mm2                  40            5,900         236           7,100           284
Subtotal            256                         2,613                         2,722
Underground Cable (km)
11 kV - 3x185                      4           28,000         112          17,000            68
0.4 kV - 3 phase                   5           10,000          50          10,000            50
Subtotal               9                          162                           118
0.4-kV Wall Cable (km)
3x70+16+50 mmz                   96             4,273         410           3,930           377
3x35+16+25 mm2                  181             2,409         436           2,216           401
lx16+16+25 mm2                  243               944         229              872          212
Accessories, poles, etc.        520             3,920       2,038           5,180         2,694
Subtotal            520                         3,113                        3,684
11/0.4 Substations (Units)
1,000 kVA                          6           20,800         125           2,600            16
500 kVA                            8           17,400         139           2,600            21
Subtotal             14                           264                            37
11/0.4 Distribution
Transformers (Units)
500 kVA - 3-Phase
200 kVA - 3-Phase                 3             6,200         166           1,500             5
100 kVA - 3-Phase                23             5,600         129           1,300            30
50 kVA  - 3-Phase                20             3,400          68           1,100            22
25 kVA  - 3-Phase                 7             1,900          13             600             4
25 kVA  - 1-Phase                50             1,600          80             300            15
16 kVA  - 1-Phase               116             1,500         174             200            23
Subtotal            219                           630                            99
Street Lights (Units)
Sodium                          888               120         106               20           18
Incandescent                  2,635                20          53               10           26
Subtotal                                          159                            44
Services (Units)
100 Amps (3-Phase)              425               250         106             150            64
100 Amps (1-Phase)              621                50          31               25           16
20 Amps  (1-Phase)           15,955                20         319               10          160
Subtotal                                          456                           240
TOTAL                                           7,967                         7,223
December 1980



- 32 -                                   ANNEX 2.2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Yearly Project Cost Estimates
(US$'000)
1981            1982            1983
L/C    F/C      L/C    F/C      L/C      F/C    1981-1983
Subtransmission & Distribution
Equipment & material                    -    400        -  3,800        -   3,200         7,400
Erection & installation                 -      -      400  1,000      990   1,800        4,190
Civil works                            20      -      540    200      400      200       1,360
Engineering                          165    800         -      -        -        -          965
Construction supervision               20     20       90    210      190      360          890
Studies                                 2      -       28    120        -        -         150
Base Cost                   207  1,220   1,058  5,330   1,580   5,560          14,955
Physical contingencies                21      30      118    537      167     560        1,433
Subtotal                    228  1,250   1,176  5,867   1,747   6,120          16,388
Price contingencies                    40     61      482    848   1,202   1,296         3,929
Subtotal Distribution       268  1,311   1,658  6,715   2,949   7,416         20,317
Isolated System
Equipment & material                   -       -        -    600        -        -         600
Erection & installation                 -      -       60     40        -        -         100
Civil works                            -       -       80     50        -       -          130
Construction supervision               -       -       30     20        -       -           50
Base Cost                     -      -      170    710        -        -          880
Physical contingencies                  -      -       25     76        -        -         101
Subtotal                      -      -      195    786        -        -          981
Price contingencies                     -      -       88    111        -        -         199
Subtotal Isolated System    -        -      283    897        -        -        1,180
TOTAL PROJECT COST          268  1,311   1,941  7,612   2,949   7,416          21,497
December 1980



33 
ANNEX 2.3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(us$ O000)
Bank Fiscal Year                                            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                                at the End of Quarter
1982
December 31, 1981                                                     800
March 31, 1982                                                        800
June 30, 1982                                                       1,311
1983
September 30, 1982                                                  1,941
December 31, 1982                                                   3,301
March 31, 1983                                                      5,673
June 30, 1983                                                       7,439
1984
September 30, 1983                                                  9,529
December 31, 1983                                                  11,619
January 31, 1984                                                   11,779
June 30, 1984                                                      12,000
December 1980



Y E  M  E  N        A  R  A  B       R E  P  U  S L I C
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATI ON P ROJEC 1'
EST IMATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1980                 1981                              1982                              1983
~~~~s-   i St     nd-    3rd -14th   Ilsf  -2nd   -3i'd 1 4th- -1ls t   n d- rd--4ith
Detailed  Engineer-ng                    .  _  _    -  t       n      3                                1                   t      In
Construction  Supervision  Conitract    _                                               - _  _  _   - - -                       -
Call for Tenders for                                              d    t
Electrical Plant                                     I   I T
Call for Tenders for                                              d
Ip    r  d     t     e   c                                             1A2     13
Diesel  Generating  Sets                                                             - --V
Call for Tenders for Installation                                             e
and Erection  Cent ractt                                     l,----------------- 
p preparaticn of tender dlocuments
r review of tender documnents by IDA
d tender documents issued
t tender documents received
e bid evaluation and recommendation
c  contract awarded
_-     fabrication, transportation  and delivery on site  / contractor mobilization
_       - construction  and erection /  construction supervision
a
Ao



YkEN ARhB REPUB1.IC
YlIllN 58N0R/l1 EO]SCTRITII CO1PDR0T0ON
RE0G0OA1 ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Consolidated lncome Statement
(YRLs Thousands)
ACTUTAL                                   _______________                               ROJECTED
FOR YEAR2 ElDED J2222 30                                                             T1) Y_      E      E      
'-Ul 1-Dec. 31
1975/76        1976/77        1977/j78        1978/79          1979/80        1980 1J        1981         1982        1983        1984           1985          1986
'eneration - kWh (Thousanad)                                46,290           62,049         83,728        119,978          166,000        101,000         251,000    314,000      405,000     462,ooo       561,oo0        693,000
Sales - kWh (Thoasands)                                     36,738           16,07!         63,174         80,430          124,650         75,000         187,500    ?34,000      304,000     357,000       440,000        544,000
- Cu [Ar Water (Thousands)                               -                 41            2j4            344              500            350             900      1,010        1,050       1,220          1,300         1,o00
Average  rice - Pils/kWh                                         58.68           60.55          64.oo          79.03             83,00 |      105.00 2/       105.00        105.00      105.00                   105.00        105.03
Revenuas
88arEi3of eleetricity                                       21,561           27,896         40,507         63,610          103,000         79,000         197,000    245,0o0      320,000     376,850        462,o0o       571,200
F-e! Adjuatment Clase 3                                                      -              -               -                -             -             31,680      47,912      19,700      19,566         21,120        ?4,908
Other Electricity Reven-e:                                 2.]65            I 235          3 340              4            5 000          3 000          10 000      12 000      20,000      25 000         30 000        35,000
Total Electrlicity Revenues                       23,726 "2t9L                      43,84      ~    7 68,73 4     8851t         892    9    3091 35 9,700                                          513,12l6t31,108
Sales of Water                                               -                 82            507           1689           -0                700           1 800      2,000        2 300       2 400          2 600         2 800
'pc~s   Total OP-ratinge R--es 523,726    4                         39,23                                        g109,1000       2,700       i       0 306,912         36             '33             70
7xpenesa
Electricity
Wagea and Salaries                                         6,864          11,782         16,911         24,104            32,000        20,000          60,000      71,930      96,000     115,000        132,000       140,000
Fuel                                                      7,023            8,793         12,101         19,303           38,526         25,970         110,880    147,212      151,060     150,004       161,920        190,960
aubricating Oil                                             941            1,273          2,o68          2,488            4,000          3,000           7,000      10,000       8,000       7,000          5,000         4,000o
materiela                                                   645            1,198          2,589          4,622            8,000          5,000          15,000     20,001       20,000      30,000        41,000         45,000
Reserve for 3taff Retiremeat                              1,l40            1,471          1,650          5,978            3,975          8,500           6,000      8,000        9,000      11,000         13,000        16,00
Other Expen-es                                            1,539            2,352          2,559            924            5,000          3,000           5,000     10,000       05,000      21,000        25,000         267000
Depreciation                                              1 817            2 829         46162             6              7,19 i]        S980           12,980     15,980       26 980      399900         4, 400        71,200
Total Operating Expenses   -  Eleotricity      T9' 9            9'9 217                      73 9 6986, 404                             0            6,  5 2 68 283,122  200     372,904            0 491,i60
Water
Wagee and Salariee                                           _                 9            141             382              500           300           1,100       1,200       1,300       1,400          1,500         1,600
Materiale and Other                                                           4 69           21            201              300            200             500         570         640         650            675           700
Sepreciatlon                                                                  26             73              33              57             2100  100  1o 01)                                  100            105)          100
Total Operating Expen-ee - Water                  _             - 24              235             33              537                                                __00          2 0  1870      2,275         200
42 _____              _ _ _             _ __                                      _ _  _       67 5          , 5          2, 275.
e Total Operating Fapenaca                      2199 *          29,780              5         61,713           99,539         66 05          218 560    284,992      328 080     375,054        402,475       493 560
manse - ElectrIaity                            3,757             517)          1,807           7,              9550                           1 980     21,790       3           0  512         91,bO 
-Water                                                    -              070             73              163            100             100        130          260         250            325           600
Total NSt Operating Income                                        (517)         2 079          7,710              14630                       21 920     213920       33,920      46 762         9012;        103
Intereat Charges                                            *'269       1,3669               17159          3,313            6,674         20,529                  5         4 ,438 69,639  65,b00
Bess: Interest Charged to Conetr-ction                         17           1,035          3,979            96              1,674        17,529          48 438                  61   3      60  6OO        40,000        30 000
Bet IStereat Charged to Operation. .._                                        331            625 2.317               _ ,O  3           .    _ 4 3,0009                     ___           4,545                       f
NET INCO1 E                                     2,989             (8489         1,654          5,393            4,461         13,650          15,920      17,920      29,920      42,217         66,291       106,291
Average Net  ixeed AssetD in Service (Cleoteic)             31,320           40,357         58,296         126,949         238,826        388,658         505,827    700,000      839,000     928,000      1,310,000     1,740,082
Rate of Retrn %  5/                                             11.99           -                3.10           6.09              3.90           4.25           4.31        3.11        4.01        5.01           7.00          8.04
Y/ YGEC plane to change fiscal y.a.  from July I to June 30 to Januury 1 to Decenber 31 beginnlag in 1981.
Reflects a 26.56 average tariff incease effective April 1, 1980.
3/ Fuel adjuet-nt oharge to eliminate fuel  hubsidy.
luader the rei-sed depreciation method introduced in 1978/79, depreciation is calculated on assets in service for the entire fiscal year
prior depreciation calcoleted on average easets in carvice at the beginning and end of the fiscal year.
2/ Rete of raters ealeslated on unrevalued  8ssete 1975/76 through 1979/80 and calcuolaed on re-eSsed a-sets from tT-Iy  -Decenbher 31, 1980 through Deceaber 31, 1986.
December 1980



YEWiN ARAB REASMLT=
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
REGIONAL ELECTRTFTCATION PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet
( RLs Thousa-es)
ACTUAI,                                                                     PROJECTED
FOR YEARS ENDED JDNE 30                                                   FOR YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
1975/76      1976/77       1977/78       1978/79      1979/80       '      /                1982.        1982         1983         1984        1985        1986
AN SET'S
FIYED ASSETS
Gross Electric Plant in Service                          34,495       55,810        81,180      204,685       332,860         441,091             715,944       916,596   1,077,904    1,201,476   1,966,204   2,217,240
Less Accumulated Depreciation                             1 81'7       4,646         8 962       12,639        19 280          25,800              38 780        54 760       81 740      121 64o      166,040      237o240
Net Electric Plant in Service          32 ,678                50,764  7      2 178 192,0              46 415 291                          677 ,lh '6183         6    996 154    1,079  836                1,800,004
Work in Progress                      8,                              56,958           1 01   74 535          12000            92 00955  20    1,804 343   1,941 640    2 034 682   1 513 363   1 398,938
Total Electric Fixed Assets                     81986        10.2         173,219      26     6     ,581 4 33,55 0        1      ,62 ,   h 2 T ,,'179   2,937,804   3,_14,5_:6                           '37 ;
Gross Water Plant in Service                          -   -              981         1,500         1,680        1,800           2,000               2,200         2,4o0        2.600         2,650       2,700        2,750
Less  Accumnulated Depreciation                            -24                          90           123          180             200                 300           800          500           600         7(00         800'
Net Water Plant in Service                        _              95          1 0          5,557         1,            _ 8                   1 ,900        7              5008       2,00         2,000        1,500
Work in Progress                                           -               77          -             -             -                                  -             -            -             -            -           -
Total Water Fixed Assets                                                    1 i   I,410   1,'57         1,620              ;                             3goo  2,000  T;100         2,0'50      _2'o          1
Total Fixed Assets                              41,586       105,756      #1-7    9     265t,3        435,?00         509,ogi          1     ,554       617        ,39,         3,11'.,58   3315, 3      3,380,
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash - Banks                                             7,031         4,151         5,909         4,636        4,ooo           4,000               6,ooo         9,003       12,000       20,000       30,000       50,000
- Letters of Credit                                 1,000         2,003         4,000       16,000        16,000          16,000              17,000       20,000       22,000        23,000       30,000       40,000
Accounts Receivable                                       5,310        4,139         7,137        12,540       17,000          21,000              33,003        44,000       53,000        63,000      77,000       95,500
Inventories                                              5,372         9.901        10,98'7      15,466        20,000          22,000              25,000        46,oo0      65,ooo        75.000       90,000      125,000
Prepayments                                                410         2,759         3,474           956        1,00P           1,000               2,000         3,000        4,000        6,003        8,000       10,, 000
Other                                                    2,267         2,269          695         2 940         2 OO            2 000               3,000         5,000       6OOo          7,000       'O5 5000     TO GOd
Total Current Assets                    2          1 ,390   25                   ,26     k3'B         8r8              'm                 83.000   Te7W'33   16e000   194,000   tm    T                                  d
TOTAL ASSETS                                    S2,97        3,0P5        2,31          320,676       495,200        875,091           1,717,58      2,795,179   3T,101,908     M315,588   -3W,-3    3,712,38
I.TALITIES & CAPITAL
Government Equity                                       26,683        46,881        87,338      191,360       239,750         323,700             $30,000       394,700   1,019,700    1,066,200   1,096,200   1,116,200
Retained Earnings                                        2,989         2,141         3,796        9,189        13,650          27,300              43.220        61,140      91,060       133,277      199.558      305,849
Reserve for Revaluation                                     -            -             -             -            _            57,091              92,664      118,635      139,513       165 507      25,4 86      286 977
TOTAL CAPITAL                                    977           9           91,104 253,40    13,091                                        6          T,074,475'  1,250,273    1,364,984 ,150,244   1,709, 025
LONG TERM DEBT
Saudi Fund I                                              5,821       21,353        20,788        - ]/           -               -                   -             _            _           _             _            _
Arab Fund I                                               7,987       34,619        56,467         -             - _
Saudi Fund II                                              -             458           736        2,233        27,247          7S,039             134,5S9      178,700      582,154       172,454      162,754      1u3,0s4
Arab Fund II                                                -             51           925         3.668       33,139          69,605             114.698       148,768     151,406       143.906      136,806      128,906
Yemen Central Bank                                       6,587         5,881           -         20,994        46,861          68,900              74,317        76,755      91,501        85,500       75,500      48  500)
IDA Credit                                                 -                           -            -           1,649          21,892              34,538       45,ooo       45,000        42,952       40,904       38,856
Other                                                                                                          15,134          79,564            499,098    1,010,726   1,035,385    1,079,872   1,100,977   1,079,322
Proposed IDA CrediL                                        -             -                                  - _  _               _                  3 600       14,855       52,285        58,000       93 662    '3,324
Total Long Term Debt                            2iS9          62,36        782,916       28,895       124,000        315,000             8680088    1,474,804   1,557,731       ,577,        ,570,23   5,93,9
OTRER
Reserve for Staff Retirement                             3,412         8,707         6,227       12,025        16,000          21,000              24,000        28,000      32,000        37,000       85,000       58,000
Customer's Contributions                                    538        2,198         4,153        6,174        21,800          40,000              60,o00        80,000     100,000       120,000      140,003      160,033
Customer's Deposits                                      2 240         3,248        13,135       18,881        22 000          24 000              25,900       27,900       31,900        35,900       39 900       43,900
Total Other                                     'WO           10,1S3       23.51S        37,03         593,000       7                   109,900       135,900        3,          192 900    -2'o          257,9QO
CURRENT LIA8ILITIES
Acc3nri-V-aVh                                             4,056        9,980        13,222        51,437       53.000          54,0o0              71,000        98,O0O     115,030       150,000      175,000      190,000
Accrued Charges A Other                                  2 663         2 508         2 074        4 215         5,000           8 o0o               O.50O       12,000      35,000        23,000       40,OOo       60.50Q
Total Current Liabilities            ,1T5                1 2iN             ,96                                    S5                          , 652 5b   000 8  3817O 110 000  130,000 21 5 00 2 77  816
TOTAL LIABILTTTES A, CAPITATL                  ____7_                                  ? 30,7         _95,200        675,095           1,717,584  2,79S,179   3,01301                       3,1010, 38-7 ;3,75 1i,3g8
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                                        41/59          57/43        46/54        12/88          33/67           43/57               56/44       08/42        -s/4S          4/46        o0/s0        87/53
CURRER'W RATTO                                                3.2          2.0           2.2          .9              1.0            1.1                 1.0          1.2          1.2           1.1         1.1          1.3
1/ Arob Fund & Saudi FPnd agreed with Covernment to cancel YGEC's to repay any portion of the first phase Ioans and reduced the
interest rate to 2X, Covernment's repayment of loans as equity contributions to YGEC.
2/ YGEC plans to change fiscal year from Joly I to Juno 30 to January I to Decehber 31 beginning in 1981.
Decem.ber 1980



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
YEMEN GENBRAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Sources and Applications of Funds for the Years
Ended December 31, 1981-1986
(YRLs Thousands)
PROJECTED                                         TOTAL
1981         1982           1953          1954           1955         1986       1951-1986
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
Net Operating Income                                            21,820        21,790        33,660         46,512         91,800     139,948       355,530
Depreciation                                                    12 980        15,980        26 980         39 900         44,400       71.200      21,44o
Net Internal Cash Generation                        3,50         37,770        to136,2                           00      21            566,970
Reserve for Staff Retirement                                     6,ooo         8,000         9,000         11,000         13,000       14,ooo       61,000
Consumers' Contributions                                        20,000        20,000        20,000         20,000         20,000      20,000       120,000
Consumers' Deposits                                              1,900         2,000         4,ooo          4 ooo          4,ooo       4 ooo        19,900
Total Internal Sources                             62,700 67770                 93,640                      173,200 1767,870
Equity Contributions-Government                                201,300       364,700       125,000         46,500         30,000      20,000       787,500
LONG TERN BORROWINGS
Saudi Fund II                                                   59,310       44,351          8,304           -              -            -         111,965
Arab Fund II                                                    45,293        33,870         6,388                          -            -          85,551
Yemen Central Bank                                               7,770         5,721        18,976           -              -            -          32,467
IDA Credit I                                                    12, b46       10,462        .                -                           -          23,108
Other                                                          419,534      518,463         35,463          56,134        37,510      25,505    1,o92,6o9
Proposed TDA Credit                                              3,600       11,255         37,430           1,715          -            -          54 000
Total Long Term Borrowing                          545,153      ,222           1O6,561         57,49         37,510       25,505    1,399,700
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                              12,153      056,592        325,201 225,761              240,710      294,65300
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
CONSTRUCTION TROGRAM
Electric Plant                                                 747,256       915,047       169,924        130,320        114,875       73,850    2,151,272
Proposed Project                                                 7,106       42,988         46, 643-                                     -          96,737
Subtotal Construction                              754,362 795,035             216,567       130,320        114,875       73,850    2,248,009
Interest Charged to Construction                                48,438        65,439        61,000         60,000        _40,0        30,000      304,877
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION                                 802,800    1,023,474        277,567        190,320       154,875          850    2,552,886
DEBT SERVICE
Amortization                                                     2,353        10,118        23,634         37,896         44,991      101,746      220,738
Interest to Operations                                           6 ooo         4 OO0         4 000          4 545         25 844       34,057       78 446
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                       4                       -4t 70,35                                               135, 03 x      _
OTHIR
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital Other than Cash          (4,ooo)       12,000        12,000        (21,000)          _          30,000       29,000
Cash Increase (Decrease)                                         2,000         3,000         3,000          8,ooo         10,OO        20,000       46,ooo   W
Charges to Reserve for Staff Retirement                          30          __4,           5000                          5,000        5,000       28,000
TOTAL, APPLICATIONS                                8L12,153    1,056,592       325,201        225,761       240,710      294,653      ,9m55,O70
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                                              4.2           2.7             2.2          2.0             1.9         1.6
December 1980



ANNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
YGEC's financial forecasts are for the following fiscal years:
(a)  Ff 1979/1980   - July 1, 1979 through June 30, 1980;
(b)  6 Mos. of 1980 - July 1, 1980 through December 31, 1980; and
(c) Ff 1981 - 1986 - January 1 through December 31 of each year
Income Statements
1.  Electricity Sales:       Assume annual sales growth of 55% in 1979/80, 20%
for last 6 mos. of 1980, 30% in 1981, 25% in 1982,
30% in 1983, 17% in 1984, 23% in 1985, and 24% in 1986.
2.  Electricity Revenues:  Assume tariff levels to remain at the present
average of 105 fils/kWh for 1981-1986, and a fuel
adjustment clause to be made effective January 1, 1981
to recover increases in fuel costs.
3.  Other Revenues:         From late payment penalties, un-metered special
lighting, sales of materials, etc.
4.  Personnel Costs:         The total number of staff is estimated to increase
from the present level of 1,271 to about 2,200 in
1986. Average annual salary increases are assumed
at 30% in 1981, 20% in 1982, 15% in 1983 and
1984, and 10% in 1985 and 1986.
5.  Fuel Costs:              Diesel fuel at US$235.2/ton (YRls 1,058.4) in 1979
and 1980. It is assumed that Government will increase
the diesel fuel price to YGEC by 40% in 1981 and 20%
in 1982 to end present subsidy; and further by about
15% annually for 1983 through 1986. Fuel oil for the
steam plant estimated at US$275/ton (YRls 1,275.5/ton)
for 1984 and increasing about 15% annually through 1986.
6.  Lubricating Oil:         Estimated at 10% of diesel generation.
7.  Depreciation:            In 1979 YGEC adopted the consultant's recommendation
to depreciate only assets that have been in service
for the entire fiscal year; prior to 1979 depreciation
was computed on average asset values for the fiscal year.
The depreciation rates are as follows:
Buildings                       2%
Diesel generation assets        6.67%
Steam generation assets         3.33%
Transmission assets             4.0%



-39-                      ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 2
Distribution assets                            4.0%
Other miscellaneous plant                      10%
8.  Interest:  Saudi Fund Loans                                2.00%
Arab Fund Loans                                4.00%
Relending of First IDA Credit                  7.45%
Relending of Proposed IDA Credit               7.50%
Local Banks                                    10-14%
Netherlands                                    2.50%
Japanese                                       2.75%
Supplier's credit from:
Hawker Siddley                              7.50%
Other Bilateral Credits                        4-7%
Balance Sheets
9.  Gross Fixed Assets:  Revalued by applying to the foreign cost portion
of the assets a coefficient of 1.25 in 1978/79 and
1.076 in 79/80. Further revaluation of foreign
cost is based on inflation of about 7.5% for 1980
through 1986. The local cost portion of assets has
been revalued assuming inflation of 15% annually.
10.  Accounts Receivable: Estimated to average about 54 days' billings.
11.  Inventories:          Average of about 30 days' supply of fuel
and 2% of gross assets for spare parts.
12.  Accounts Payable:    Average of 10% of annual fuel costs, plus one
month's salaries, and appropriate amounts for
consultants' contracts.
Forecasts for the water utility assume that the water utility
revenues would cover all operating costs, including depreciation, and would
cover a portion of any required future expansion.
December 1980



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
REGIONAl, ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Return on Investment of the Project
( YRLs toO0)
------------------  Cost  ---------------------   _____           Sales  -------------------       ------  Benefits   -------
From
Generation,                          /5  Isolated                                         Customers
Transmission &              From Grid      System /A      Number of                       Connection
Year    Capital     0 & M     Distribution       Fuel       (MWh)         (MWh)       New Customers/4      Revenue        Charges
1981     31.780        -             -              -           - /            -               -                 -            -
1982     43,880      197         3 064          1,294       3,132            400          6,360             10,880        3,816
1983     21,750      396         5,384          2,492       5,985  2         813          1o,64o            19,980        6,384
1984          -      396         8,854          4,552      10,694 L.       1,708             340            25,008          204
1985          -      396         9,551          5,o96      11,638          2,220             346            27,923          207
1986          -      396        10,435          5,792      12,837          2,886             360            31,662          216
1987          -      396        11,427          6,656      14,184          3,839             367            36,266          220
1988          -      396        12,301          7,176      15,370          4,o68            368             39,o96          220
1989          -      396        13,278          7,752      16,694          4,312             375            42,237          225
1990          -      396        14,370          8,392      18,177          4,571             383            45,725          229
1gg1     44,104      396        16,518          8,910      19,308          4,845             390            48,s54o         234
1992     44,105        -        17,898          8,586      20,512          5,135             398            51,533          239
1993          -        -        18,768          g,o42      21,641          5,342            406             54,209          243          4
1994          -                 19,689          9,524      22,840          5,555             414            57,038          248
1995          -        -        20,146          9,779      23,436          5,778             423            58,621          253
1996          -        -        21,695         10,573      25,452          6,008            431             63,178          258
1997          -        -        22,790         11,144      26,878          6,248            440             66,516          264
1998          -        -        23,946         11,747      28,386          6,498            449             70,037          269
1999                   -        25,175         12,386      29,989          6,759            458             73,770          274
2000          -        -        26,474         13,062      31,687          7,029            467             77,712          280
2001     44,104        -        27,282         13,272      32,091          7,309            476             79,085          285
2002     44,105        -        28,o65         13,488      32,510          7,601            486             80,513          291
2003          -        -        28,443         13,715      32,947          7,906            496             82,103          297
2004          -        -        28,834         13,950      33,401          8,222             505            83,549          303
2005          -        -        29,241         14,194      33,873          8,551             515            85,157          309
2006          -        -        29,664         14,448      34,364          8,894             526            86,831          315
2007          -        -        30,107         14,713      34,875          9,249             536            88,569          321
2008          -        -        30,563         14,987      35,406          9,619            547             90,378          328
2009          -        -        31,040         15,274      35,958         10,004             558            92,258          334
2010          -        -        31,535         15,571      36,532         10,405             569            94,215          341
2011          -        -        32,051         15,881      37,131         10,820             580            96,250          348
X  Rehabilitation of 5,400 connections.
2  Connection of 4,380 in Souks and increase in consamption of rehabilitated connections
by 10%.
3 Connection of another 4,380 in Souks and 4,280 in areas connected to the grid.
Number of new customers increase at a rate of 2% per year.
From 1985 to 1990 consumption of electricity (for all Project areas) is assumed to
increase by 10% per year, from 1991 to 2000 by 6% per year, and from 2001 onwards
by 3% per year.
December 1980



-41-
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                        ANNEX 4. 2
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Rate of Return Calculations
Assumptions:
General
It is assumed throaghout the rate of return calculation that at the end of 10 years the villages covered by the Project, which
would rezeive electricity from isolated systems would be supplied from YGEC's interconnected network.
Benefits:
(a) The consumers' willingness to pay is taken to be YRls 2.0/kWh (para 4.04).
(b) Benefits were not expressed in terms of their equivalent border value because conversion1 factors for
YAR have not been derived yet.
(c) A customer connection charge of YREs 600/customer is taken as a benefit (para 1.12).
Costs:
(a) All costs are expressed in terms of domestic prices with the exception of fuel cost for which a border value was readily available; and
(b\ the border prices for fuel are taken to be the c.i.f. of fuels delivered to YAR in January 1980 (diesel - YRIs 1,413/ton cad fool
oil - YRIs 877.5/ton).
The allocation of the cost to the various components of the Project is as follows:
CCMPONENT OF PROJECT                       GENERATION                         TRANSICSSION                  DISTRIBUTION                    FUEL
Iomponent I:  Reinforcing and ex-          No capital cost was taken          No transmission cost          The capital cost of the         For the first 10 years, the
panding distribution networks in           for the first 10 years.            was attributed to the         distribution equipment          c.i.f. value of diesel oil
12 villages and connecting them            Thereafter, a capacity cost       benefits for the first         for this component was         of YRis 1,413/ton is used,
tc already existing generating             of YRls 0.33/kWh equal to the   10 years.  Thereafter,           taken as a proxy for            oased on a consumption for
equipment.                                 longrim average incresmental       a capacity cost of            the capacity cost of            generation of 0.28 tonsWbh.
cost of generation is used.       YRIs 0.22/kwh equal to         distribution.  This is         Thereafter, the c.i.f.
For the first 10 years, the       the average incremental        repeated every 10 years        value of fuel oil of
yearly cost of O&M is             cost of transmission           to replace and expand          YRls 877.5/ton is used,
assumed to be 2% of capital       is used.  O&M cost is          the equipment installed        based on consumption for
cost.  Thereafter, it is          included in the capa-          initially.  A yearly           generation of 0.25 tonsbW4h.
included in the capacity cost.  city cost.                       cost for O&M of about
1% of the capital cost
is used.
Component II:  Installation of             The caDital cost for genera-    Same as above.                    Same as above.                 Same as above.
generation and low voltage distri-         tion for this component was
bution equipment.                          taken as a proxy for the
capacity cost for generation
for the first 10 years. There-
after, a capacity cost of
YRls 0.33/kWh equal to the ld4g-
run average incremental cost of
generation is used. O&M cost
for the first 10 years is
taken to be 2% of capital
cost, thereafter, it is inclu-
ded in the capacity cost.
Component III:  Reinforcement and          A capacity cost of YRls 0.33/  A capacity cost of                 Tha capital cost of the        The border price for fuel
expansion of the distribution net-         kWh equal to the long rum          YRls 0.22 /kWh equal to        distribution equipment         oil of YRls 877.5/tso  based
work in the farmers' markets in            average incremental cost           the long run average            for this component is         on a consumption for gene-
Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz.                  of generation is used.             incremental cost of trans-   used as a proxy for the          ration of 0.25tons/kWh.
mission is used.  O&M cost   capacity cost of distri-
is included in the capa-       bution.  This is re-
city cost.                     peated every 10 years
to replace and expand
the equipment installed
initially.  A yearly
cost for O&M of about
1% of capital cost is
usedl.
q         Component IV:  Construction of             Same as above.                     The capital cost of the         The capital cost of the       Same as above.
distribution network in two large                                             33-kV subtransmission lisne  distribution equipment
villages and linking them to                                                  is used as a proxy for         for this component is
the interconnected system by 132-                                             the capacity cost of           used as a proxy for the
kV transmission line.                                                         transmission for the            capacity cost.  This is
first 10 years.  There-        repeated every 10 years
after, a capacity cost         to replace and expand
of YRlsd;28/kWh equal          the equipment installed
to the average i-cremen-       initially.  A yearly -cot
tal cost of transmission       for O&M of about 1% of
is used.  O&M cost is          capital cDst is used.
included in the capacity
cost.
December 1980



-42-
ANNEX 5.1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1. YGEC - The Report on the Accounts As At June 30, 1979.
2. BEI - Progress Report on Study of Financial, Accounting and Some Engineering
Matters for YGEC, February 1980.
3. BEI - Report on Meter Reading, Billing and Collection of Electricity
Accounts, March 1980.
4.  BEI - YGEC Electricity Tariffs, Report No. 1, October 1979.
5. BEI - YGEC Electricity Tariffs, Report No. 2, February 1980.
6. NRECA - Interim Report - Rural Electrification Feasibility Study,
Volume I, Sept:ember 1, 1980.
7. NRECA - Interim Report - Rural Electrification Feasibility Study,
Volume II, September 1, 1980.
8. NRECA - Interim Report - Rural Electrification Feasibility Study,
Executive Summary, September 1, 1980.
December 1980



I3RD 15259
SAUDI  ARAB A                                     ~~~YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A>                                     ONASTAT                                  ~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION  PROJECT
>0 )~~~~~~~~~~
-NFC5JNAFT9C                    nil- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~T 1-111-l-E-I
0   FOEGES OAST N AN 050-5 OD,TFCO
__  A  H  C                                                                     A          N FEEL POTET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ll STAION  LASTI-G
(                                                       0          NFONNTOFSTFR~~~~~~~-1 STOlANNTITN
2  SEAAAN                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~TO- T -A~NlNO  LIENA-     T TNSR-R
NC                          E                                                                         _________       OTOFT 90000~~~~~~~~~~~~[ H1f
A    -                                                                                  ~~      ~~~     ~~~     ~~~      ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~0 20   AS OS T  100
LEA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    A                                                                                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mLMEEFS              I
Al-i ~ ~  ~   ~   I     N - -   A   OA    I NA
2.1~~~~~~~
PEOPLE'S   DEM CRATIC   REPULIC   OF   YEME
E T H I 0 P I A~~~K
4'                                                                          dA,    SI  EGTED SBOUTI.                                                                                         I



