止


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1102-YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    1981, between YEMEN ARAB
REPUBLIC (hereinaf er /a l  d the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Yemen General
Electricity Corporation (hereinafter called YGEC) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to YGEC the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from other external
sources of finance loans in an aggregate amount equivalent to
about eight million dollars ($8,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and YGEC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and YGEC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and YGEC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Yemeni Rial" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d) "YGEC's investment program" means YGEC's electricity
generation, transmission and distribution program for the years
1979 through 1986;
(e) "Project Preparation Advance" means the Project pre-
paration advance provided by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 14, 1980 and
November 19, 1980 between the Borrower and the Association,
respectively; and
(f) "Project Unit" means the Project unit to be established
pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,400,000).
Section 2.02 (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date aad to pay all unpaid service charges thereon. The unwith-
drawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall be cancelled as of the same date and the balance of
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (4) shall be
reallocated to Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions set forth or
referred to in the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiainually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March I and September 1 commencing March 1, 1991, and ending
September 1, 2030, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on September 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause YGEC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be.taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable YGEC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to YGEC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the
Association pursuant to which YGEC shall, inter alia: (i) repay
the equivalent in terms of Yemeni Rials of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent (such equivalent to be determined as of the
respective dates of repayment by YGEC of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent) in equal or approximately equal annual or
semiannual installments over a period of fifteen years, after a
grace period of five years; and (ii) pay interest at the rate of
7-1/2% per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time, provided that interest on such
amount accruing during the grace period, shall be capitalized and
added to the principal amount to be repaid under sub-paragraph
(i) above.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01
hereof, establish, in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to
the Association, a special account at the Central Bank of Yemen in
the name of YGEC, to be used exclusively by YGEC to make payments
in Yemeni Rials for local expenditures on account of the Project;


﻿-5-
(b) from time to time deposit such amounts in Yemeni Rials
into said account so that on the first day of each month said
account shall contain amounts sufficient to meet payments by YGEC
for expenditures under the Project during the following three
months, as such expenditures are reasonably estimated by YGEC;
and
(c) maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, all withdrawals from and deposits in said
account.
Section 3.03. Funds provided by the Borrower to YGEC for
purposes related to the execution of the Project, other than the
funds provided by the Borrower in accordance with Section 3.01
(b), shall be so provided in the form of equity contribution.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) employ by July 31, 1981, or such other date as the
Borrower and the Association may agree, consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association, in order to assist the Bor-
rower in carrying out the energy pricing study referred to in Part
D of the Project;
(b) upon the completion of said study, review with the
Association, by December 31, 1982, or such other date as the
Borrower and the Association may agree, its plans for the
establishment of energy prices based on the recommendations of
said study; and
(c) take the action required on its part for the implemen-
tation of such parts of said plans as shall be agreed with the
Association.
Section 3.05. (a) Until the establishment of energy prices
in accordance with the provisions of the preceding Section 3.04,
the Borrower shall, not later than JTuly 31, 1981, take all
necessary measures required: (i) to hold the subsidy extended to
YGEC for its consumption of diesel oil, at the level reached on
June 30, 1981, and to ensure that no subsidy shall be extended
to YGEC for its future consumption of fuel oil; (ii) to hold the
subsidy extended to other consumers of petroleum products at the
level reached on June 30, 1981, and (iii) to put into effect


﻿- 6 -
appropriate increases of prices for all petroleum products
and tariffs for electricity and to introduce in YGEC's tariffs
a fuel adjustment clause which will enable YGEC automatically
to pass on to its customers all increases in YGEC's own fuel
costs.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding
patagraph, the Borrower may reduce the prices of petroleum
products charged to YGEC and other consumers by an amount
equivalent to any grant extended to the Borrower from external
sources specifically to enable the Borrower to meet future
increases in the international prices of such petroleum products.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all action required on
its part for the implementation of the agreed recommendations
emerging from the electricity tariff study referred to in Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The agreement, or any of the agreements, providing for
the external financing referred to in Recital (C) of the preamble
to this Agreement, shall have failed to become effective by
October 31, 1981, or such other date as the Association may
establish; provided, however, that the provisions of this para-
graph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower under terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b) YGEC shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of YGEC under the Project Agreement
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that YGEC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(d) YGEC's establishment Act shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to


﻿-7-
materially and adversely affect the ability of YGEC to carry out
the covenants, agreements or obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of YGEC or the suspension of its operations.
(f) YGEC shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by YGEC
or by others whereby any of its assets shall or may be distributed
among its creditors.
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any of the loans provided from
external sources for financing the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(B) Any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and YGEC; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (d), (e), (f)
or (g) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of YGEC have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental and corporate action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and YGEC, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action;
(c) the agreement or agreements providing for the external
financing for the Project in the amount specified in Recital (C)
of the preamble to this Agreement, has or have been duly signed on
behalf of the parties thereto;
(d) the Borrower has established the special account
referred to in Section 3.02 hereof; and
(e) YGEC has established and staffed the Project Unit and
has appointed its Project manager, in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by YGEC, and is legally binding upon YGEC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and YGEC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and YGEC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date,/is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Electricity and Water of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Electricity
and Water
P.O. Box 178
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                      Telex:
ALKAHRABA                          2275 YEGEC-YE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 10 -
of Columbi4, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
YEMEN AFAB REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
texpenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                6,300,000        100% of for-
materials                                     ign expendi-
tures
(2) Installation of                440,000         10%
equipment and
materials and
training
(3) Technical assis-               630,000        100% of for-
tance (engineering                            eign expendi-
and construction                              tures
supervision, energy
pricing and tariff
studies)
(4) Project preparation            630,000         100%
advance
(5) Unallocated                  1,400,000
TOTAL         9,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:
The provision and the installation in the areas indicated in
uhe Annex to this Schedule of:
1.   about 66 km of 33-KV lines;
2.   about 190 km of 11-KV lines:
3.   about 520 km of 220-V wall-mounted cable;
4.   74 (3-phase) and 240 (1-phase) distribution transformers
(total capacity 15.5 MVA);
5.   about 2,300 street lights; and
6.   3 generating units (one 1,200 kw and two 100 kw)
Part B:
On-the-job training for YGEC's staff in the installation and
maintenance of distribution equipment.
Part C:
Technical assistance for YGEC in the detailed engineering and
supervision of construction works under the Project.
Part D:
The carrying out of studies on energy pricing and electricity
tariffs.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 14 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, the beneficiaries of the electrical works to be installed
under Part A of the Project will be villages situated in the Bani
Hushaysh and Mabar Districts, the villages of Hazm Al Jawf and
Marib, the three farmers' markets in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida,
and villages situated in the vicinity of the towns of Yerim, Anis
Duran, Saadah, Radaa, Zabid and Manakhah.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198±.
FOR SECRETARY


