Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2878-0 YU
                                                             -1 YU
                                                             -2 YU
                                                             -3 YU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
                  (Second Highway Sector Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
           REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA
                  PUTEVE S.R. CRNE GORE, TITOGRAD
           (Self-Managing Republic Community of Interest
   for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, Titograd)
   REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA CESTE - ZAGREB
       (Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads of the
                  Socialist Republic of Croatia)
       REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PATISTA
                         MAKEDONIJE-SKOPJE
         (Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads of
                        Macedonia - Skopje)
  SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE VOJVODINE - NOVI SAD
         (Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads of
                       Vojvodina - Novi Sad)
                                and
         SAVEZ SAMOUPRAVNIH INTERESNIH ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE
                       JUGOSLAVIJE, BEOGRAD
         (Federal Association of Republican and Provincial
            Road Organizations of Yugoslavia, Belgrade)
                     Dated September 30, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1988, among INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT,  party  of the first part (the
Bank) and  REPUBLICKA  SAMOUPRAVNA  INTERESNA  ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE
S.R. CRNE  GORE,  TITOGRAD  (Self-Managing  Republic  Community of
Interest  for  Roads  of  the  Socialist  Republic  of Montenegro,
Titograd) (sometimes called  the Montenegrin Borrower), REPUBLICKA
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA  ZA  CESTE - ZAGREB (Self-Managing
Community of  Interest  for  Roads  of  the  Socialist Republic of
Croatia)  (sometimes  called  the  Croatian  Borrower), REPUBLICKA
SAMOUPRAVNA  INTERESNA  ZAJEDNICA   ZA  PATISTA  MAKEDONIJE-SKOPJE
(Self-Managing Community  of  Interest  for  Roads  of Macedonia -
Skopje) (sometimes called  the  Macedonian Borrower),  SAMOUPRAVNA
INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE  VOJVODINE - NOVI SAD (Self-Managing
Community of Interest for  Roads  of  Vojvodina - Novi Sad) (some-
times called the Vojvodinan Borrower), parties of the second part,
Page  2
(sometimes individually called a Borrower  and all such parties of
the second part sometimes  collectively  called the Borrowers) and
SAVEZ SAMOUPRAVNIH  INTERESNIH  ZAJEDNICA  ZA  PUTEVE JUGOSLAVIJE,
BEOGRAD (Federal  Association  of  Republican  and Provincial Road
Organizations of Yugoslavia,  Belgrade),  party  of the third part
(sometimes called FARP);
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrowers,  having satisfied themselves as to
the feasibility and priority  of  the  Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement, have  requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  each of  the  Borrowers  has  agreed  to  carry  out its
Individual Part of the Project (defined hereinafter) described  in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement,  and  have  taken  or will take  all
such actions as  are  necessary  to  designate  FARP as the repre-
sentative of each of the  Borrowers  to  carry out Part III of the
Project and for certain other purposes under this Agreement;
     (C)  the Socialist Republic  of  Montenegro (Montenegro), the
Socialist Republic of Croatia (Croatia), the Socialist Republic of
Macedonia (Macedonia)  and  the  Socialist  Autonomous Province of
Vojvodina (Vojvodina) have each taken all actions necessary to
authorize: (i) the  carrying  out  of  the  Individual Part of the
Project with which it  is  concerned;  (ii) the investment program
and  financing  plan  of  such  Individual  Part  of  the Project,
including the allocation of  road  user revenues adequate for road
investments and  maintenance,  in  accordance  with  the Letter of
Development Policy dated May  25,  1983  from the Guarantor to the
Bank relating to  the  Structural  Adjustment  Loan (Loan No. 2326
YU); and (iii) the  provision  of, inter alia, financial resources
required for the completion of such Individual Part of the Project
and its respective share in the financing of Parts II.B and III of
the Project;
     (D)  Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia  and  Vojvodina have each
agreed to  make  available  or  cause  to  be  made  available any
additional funds required for the  carrying  out of the Project in
addition to the funds  referred  to  in  Recital (C) and the Loans
provided hereunder;
     (E)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between  Socialist  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia (the
Guarantor) and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the
obligations of each Borrower in respect of each Loan as to payment
of principal, interest  and  other  charges  and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loans to the Borrowers upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, l985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  5  to  this Agreement (the
General  Conditions),  constitute   an   integral   part  of  this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Individual Part of the  Project",  as used with respect
Page  3
to any of the  Borrowers,  means  such  portion  of the Project as
shall be carried out within the jurisdiction of, or mainly for the
benefit of, the Borrower or the  Republic or the Province in which
such Borrower is established and operating;
     (b)  "Republic"  means  any  of  the  Socialist  Republics of
Montenegro, Croatia and Macedonia;
     (c)  "Province" means  the  Socialist  Autonomous Province of
Vojvodina;
     (d)  "Borrowers' Statutes"  means  (i)  the  Statutes  of the
Montenegrin Borrower, dated May 24, 1983, (ii) the Statutes of the
Croatian Borrower, dated January  9,  1976,  (iii) the Statutes of
the  Macedonian  Borrower,  dated  June  29,  1982,  and  (iv) the
Statutes of the Vojvodinan Borrower, dated September, 1983, all as
may be amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (e)  "Social Accounting Service"  means the Sluzba Drustvenog
Knjigovodstva refered to in  paragraph  (5)  of Article 281 of the
Guarantor's constitution; and
     (f)  "Special Account"  means  any  of  the  accounts  of the
Borrowers referred to in  Section  2.02  (b) of this Agreement and
"Special Accounts" means all such accounts collectively.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loans
     Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  each  of the
Borrowers, on the terms and conditions  in the Loan Agreement  set
forth or referred to,  an  amount in various currencies equivalent
to  the  following:  Montenegrin  Borrower:  $9,600,000;  Croatian
Borrower:  $5,900,000;   Macedonian   Borrower:  $17,900,000;  and
Vojvodinan Borrower: $28,200,000.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  each Loan may be withdrawn
from the respective Loan Account in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement,  as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrowers and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and  services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to   this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the respective Loan.
     (b)  Each of the  Borrowers  shall,  for  the purposes of its
Individual Part of the  Project,  open  and  maintain in dollars a
special account  in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, each
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1991 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrowers and FARP of such later date.
     Section 2.04. Each of the  Borrowers  shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the  rate  of  three-fourths  of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per  annum  on  the  principal  amount of its Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Borrowers shall pay interest on
the principal amount of  its  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester  ending  prior  to  the commencement of such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
Page  4
the Bank shall notify the Guarantor  and the Borrowers of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. Each of the Borrowers shall repay the principal
amount of its Loan in  accordance with the respective amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. Each of the Borrowers shall designate, or cause
to be designated, FARP as  its  representative for the purposes of
taking any action  required  or  permitted  to  be taken under the
provisions set forth or referred  to in Sections 2.02, 2.04, 2.05,
2.06 and 2.07 of this  Agreement,  and  Articles III, IV and V and
Section 6.05 of the General Conditions, and for such purpose, FARP
and the Borrowers shall  take  such  actions  as  are set forth in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) Each of  the Borrowers declares its commit-
ment to the objectives of the  Project  as set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out its Individual
Part of the Project,  the  Croatian  Borrower shall carry out Part
II.A of the Project and FARP shall carry out Parts II.B and III of
the Project on behalf of the Borrowers:  (i) in accordance with an
action  plan  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  with  the specific
investment program and financing  plan  of the respective Borrower
contained therein; (ii) with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate engineering, administrative, financial
and highway transport practices; and (iii) in cooperation with the
other Borrowers and FARP to ensure the most efficient execution of
the Project  as  a  whole,  and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of the paragraph
(a) of this Section, each  of  the  Borrowers shall include in its
Individual Part  of  the  Project  only  those  road sections, the
construction or improvement of which,  are described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement  or,  in  the  case  of the Vojvodinan Borrower,
those road sections which shall have  been agreed with the Bank on
the  basis  of  appropriate  technical  and  economic  feasibility
studies under Part I.C.(ii) of the Project.
     (c)  Each of the Borrowers shall  furnish to the Bank through
FARP, for review  and  approval  by  the  Bank,  a  summary of the
technical and economic evaluation  of  the roads to be constructed
under its Individual Part of  the Project, each such evaluation to
be prepared in accordance with  the procedures, criteria and time-
table set forth in the  action  plan  referred to in paragraph (a)
Page  5
hereof.
     Section 3.02. During the  implementation of the Project, each
of the Borrowers shall:
     (a)  in coordination with FARP, prepare on an annual basis an
updated investment program  and  financing  plan  taking into con-
sideration: (i) actual  execution  of  works  under its Individual
Part of the  Project;  (ii)  detailed  cost estimates for proposed
works under its  Individual  Part  of  the  Project; and (iii) the
availability of  financing  including,  inter  alia,  the need for
increased road user charges for such proposed works;
     (b)  starting in 1988: (i) furnish to the Bank by April 30 of
each  year  for  the  Bank's  review  and  comments  such  updated
investment program and  financing  plan  in  preliminary form; and
(ii) furnish to the Bank  for  information  by November 30 of each
year said program and plan in final form, with the Bank's comments
thereon taken into account; and
     (c)  starting  in  1988,  reflect   in  its  budget  for  the
following year, the final investment program and financing plan.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  civil  works,  goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loans shall be  governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. Each of the Borrowers shall construct the roads
included in its Individual Part  of the Project in accordance with
the design standards set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.05. Each of the Borrowers shall take or cause to be
taken all such actions as are necessary in order to ensure that if
any tolls are imposed on the use of any highway included under its
Individual Part of the Project:
     (a)  such tolls shall be set at rates determined on the basis
of the guidelines for the  setting of toll rates prepared pursuant
to the toll study carried  out  under the Eleventh Highway Project
(Loan No. 1819 YU) (hereinafter called Toll Study); and
     (b)  toll collection facilities  shall  be established on the
basis of the guidelines prepared pursuant to the Toll Study.
     Section  3.06.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions of
Section 9.07 of  the  General  Conditions,  each  of the Borrowers
shall furnish  through  FARP  the  information  pertaining  to its
Individual Part of the  Project  referred  to in such Section 9.07
(iii) of the General  Conditions, including reports containing the
information specified in such  Section  9.07  (iii) of the General
Conditions in July and October of  each year, which reports are to
be furnished promptly upon their  preparation but in any event not
later than forty-five (45)  days  after  the  end of the reporting
period.
     Section 3.07.  FARP  shall  maintain  records  and procedures
adequate for the  purposes  of  carrying  out its responsibilities
under Section 2.08 of  this  Agreement and assisting the Borrowers
in carrying out their responsibilities  under Section 3.06 of this
Agreement and Section 9.07 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE IV
                 Management and Operations of the
                        Borrowers and FARP
     Section 4.01. Each of the Borrowers shall exercise its powers
and functions with respect to  all  public roads in its respective
Republic or Province (except roads falling within the jurisdiction
Page  6
of communes and municipalities),  so  as  to ensure: (a) that such
roads will be  adequately  maintained  and  repaired in accordance
with sound engineering  and  financial  practices, and that funds,
facilities, services and other resources required therefor will be
provided, promptly as needed;  (b)  that the systematic collection
and recording of such technical,  economic and financial data will
be continued for the  proper planning of maintenance, improvements
and extensions of  such  roads;  and  (c)  that the dimensions and
axle-loads of vehicles  using  such  roads  shall  not exceed such
limits as are appropriate to  the  design standards for such roads
as set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Each of  the  Borrowers  and  FARP shall at all
times carry out its  operations  and  manage its affairs in accor-
dance with  sound  engineering,  business,  financial  and admini-
strative principles and  practices,  and  under the supervision of
experienced and competent management.
     Section 4.03. Each of the  Borrowers shall take out and main-
tain with responsible  insurers,  or  make  other provision satis-
factory to the Bank for, insurance  against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
     Section 4.04. Each of  the  Borrowers shall operate and main-
tain its plants, equipment and  properties,  and from time to time
all necessary renewals  and  repairs  thereof,  in accordance with
sound engineering and administrative practices.
     Section 4.05. Each of the  Borrowers shall at all times main-
tain the right to  carry  on  its  operations,  and take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
     Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, none of
the Borrowers shall  sell,  lease,  transfer,  assign or otherwise
dispose of any of  its  rights,  property  or assets except in the
ordinary course of business.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. Each  of  the  Borrowers shall maintain records
and accounts, including separate  accounts for its Individual Part
of the Project,  adequate  to  reflect  in accordance with consis-
tently maintained  appropriate  accounting  practices  its highway
operations and its financial resources and expenditures related to
such operations.
     Section 5.02. Each of the Borrowers shall:
     (a)  have the accounts referred  to  in  Section 5.01 of this
Agreement and financial statements  (balance sheets, statements of
income  and  expenses  and  related  statements)  and  its Special
Account for each fiscal  year  audited,  in accordance with appro-
priate auditing  principles  consistently  applied,  by the Social
Accounting Service or  another  competent and experienced indepen-
dent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as  available, but in any
case not later than six  months  after  the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its  financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason
ably requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the  Bank  such  other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements,  records and expenditures, as
Page  7
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
     Section 5.03.  For  all  expenditures  with  respect to which
withdrawals are requested from the respective Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, each of the Borrowers shall:
     (a)  maintain, in accordance with Section 5.01 of this
Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (b)  retain, until  at  least  one  year  after  the Bank has
received the audit report for  the  fiscal  year in which the last
withdrawal from the respective Loan  Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
     (c)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
     (d)  ensure that such  records  and  accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to  in  paragraph (a) of Section 5.02 of
this Agreement  and  that  the  report  of  such  audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors  as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such  fiscal  year, together with the
procedures and internal  controls  involved  in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. (a) For  the  purposes  of  Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following  additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
     (a)  Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia  or  Vojvodina shall have
failed to  make  available,  as  and  when  needed,  the financial
resources referred to in Recitals (C) and (D) of this Agreement;
     (b)  any  provision  (i)  of  the  Statutes  of  any  of  the
Borrowers as  affect  such  Borrower's  ability  to  carry out its
Individual Part of the Project  or such Borrower's existence as an
independent enterprise, or (ii) of  FARP's Statutes as affect  its
ability to carry out Parts II.B and  III of the Project or  any of
its obligations  in  this  Agreement  contained,  shall  have been
amended, suspended, abrogated or terminated without prior approval
of the Bank; and
     (c)  any part of the principal  amount  of any loan to any of
the Borrowers having  an  original  maturity  of  one year or more
shall, in accordance with its  terms,  have become due and payable
in advance of  maturity  as  provided  in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for  any  such loan shall have become
enforceable.
     Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any of the events specified
in paragraphs (a), (b) or  (c)  of  Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia  and  Vojvodina have each
Page  8
given the  authorizations  referred  to  in  Recital  (C)  of this
Agreement, in form  and  substance  satisfactory  to the Bank, and
such authorizations are in full force and effect;
     (b)  Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia  and  Vojvodina have each
given guarantees, in form and  substance satisfactory to the Bank,
in respect of the  provision  of  all necessary funds required for
the carrying out of the  relevant  Individual Part of the Project,
including cost overruns, as referred to in Recitals (C) and (D) of
this Agreement, and such guarantees are in full force and effect;
     (c)  all necessary consents and approvals have been given for
FARP to undertake its obligations under this Agreement; and
     (d)  the road user charges have been increased from the level
in effect at July 1, 1987 to  a level in line with the movement in
the producer  price  index  for  industrial  products  at the date
specified in Section 7.03 of this Agreement.
     Section  7.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the authorizations referred  to in paragraph (a) of
Section 7.01 of this  Agreement  have  been duly and validly given
and are in full force and effect;
     (b)  that the  guarantees  referred  to  in  paragraph (b) of
Section 7.01 of this  Agreement  have  been duly and validly given
and are in full force and effect; and
     (c)  that the consents and approvals referred to in paragraph
(c) of Section 7.01 of  this  Agreement have been duly and validly
given and are in full force and effect.
     Section 7.03.  The  date  120  days  after  the  date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for  the purpose of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
                             Addresses
     Section 8.01. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:               Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                   440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA) or
                                           64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrowers:
          Savez Samoupravnih Interesnih Zajednica
               za Puteve Jugoslavije
          Ljube Cupe 5
          11000 Belgrade
          Yugoslavia
Page  9
                                       Telex:
                                           SSIZP 72548 YU
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
representatives  thereunto  duly   authorized,  have  caused  this
Agreement to be signed in  their  respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States  of  America,  as  of  the day and year
first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                      AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ J. Harrison
                                                   Acting Director
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA
                    PUTEVE S.R. CRNE GORE, TITOGRAD
                    (Self-Managing Republic Community of Interest
                    for Roads of the Socialist Republic of
                    Montenegro, Titograd)
                    REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA
                    CESTE - ZAGREB
                    (Self-Managing Community of Interest for
                    Roads of the Socialist Republic of Croatia)
                    REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA
                    PATISTA MAKEDONIJE-SKOPJE
                    (Self-Managing Community of Interest for
                    Roads of Macedonia - Skopje)
                    SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE
                      ODINE - NOVI SAD
                    (Self-Managing Community of Interest for
                    Roads of Vojvodina - Novi Sad)
                    SAVEZ SAMOUPRAVNIH INTERESNIH ZAJEDNICA ZA
                    PUTEVE JUGOSLAVIJE, BEOGRAD
                    (Federal Association of Republican
                    and Provincial Road Organizations of
                    Yugoslavia, Belgrade)
                    By /s/ Z. Kovacevic
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loans
Page  10
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loans, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loans  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loans Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category           Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Montenegrin
     Borrower:
     (a)  Civil works
          Rehabili-               9,300,000    50%
          tation
     (b)  Planning                  100,000    100% of foreign
          equipment                            expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 60% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured
                                               locally
     (c)  Technical             200,000100%
          assistance and
          training
          TOTAL                   9,600,000
                           Amount of the
                          Loans Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category           Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(2)  Croatian Borrower:
     (a)  Road maintenance        4,800,000    100% of foreign
          equipment and                        expenditures,
          spare parts                          100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 60% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               for other items
                                               procured
                                               locally
     (b)  Planning equip-           700,000    100% of foreign
          ment                                 expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 60% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items pro-
                                               cured locally
     (c)  Technical                 400,000    100%
          assistance
          and training
          TOTAL                   5,900,000
Page  11
(3)  Macedonian Borrower:
     (a)  Civil works
          Rehabili-              17,600,000    50%
          tation
                           Amount of the
                          Loans Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category           Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
     (b)  Planning                  100,000    100% of foreign
          equipment                            expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 60% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               for other items
                                               procured locally
     (c)  Technical             200,000100%
          assistance and
          training
          TOTAL                  17,900,000
(4)  Vojvodinan Borrower:
     (a)  Civil works
          (i)  New con-          23,500,000    45%
               struction
         (ii)  Rehabili-       4,400,000        50%
               tation
     (b)  Planning                  100,000    100% of foreign
          equipment                            expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 60%
                                               of local ex-
                                               penditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
     (c)  Technical                 200,000    100%
          assistance and
          training
          TOTAL                  28,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods and services  supplied  from  the  territory  of any country
other than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
Page  12
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in  respect  of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding the equivalent of
$8,000,000 may be  made  on  account  of  payments made for expen-
ditures in respect of Category  (4)  (a)  (i) before that date but
after July 1, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are:  (a) to support planned
development of the highway network in Yugoslavia by assisting  the
highway development programs  of  the  Montenegrin, Vojvodinan and
Macedonian  Borrowers  during  the  1987-1990  period;and  (b)  to
strengthen institutions in  the  highway  sector  in  the areas of
financial   and   investment   planning,   maintenance   planning,
rehabilitation planning and sector coordination.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrowers and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part I:   Highway Construction, Reconstruction,
          Rehabilitation and Betterment
     Construction, reconstruction,  rehabilitation  and betterment
in Montenegro, Macedonia  and  Vojvodina  of the following highway
sections and the  provision  of  highway  maintenance and planning
equipment therefor:
A.Montenegro
          (i)  Rehabilitation and betterment of about 90 km of the
               two-lane Adriatic Highway between Kolasin, Ivangrad
               and the Serbian border.
         (ii)  Rehabilitation and betterment of the 320 m concrete
               Durdevica Tara bridge on the River Tara.
B.   Macedonia
          (i)  Rehabilitation and betterment of about 80 km of the
               Trans-Yugoslav   Highway    between   Gradsko   and
               Gevgelija.
         (ii)  Rehabilitation and  betterment  of  about  88 km of
               primary roads between Skopje and Ohrid.
C.   Vojvodina
          (i)  Rehabilitation and betterment of about 31 km of the
               Trans-Yugoslav Highway between Sasinci and Kuzmin.
         (ii)  Rehabilitation and  betterment  of  additional road
               sections as agreed  from  time  to time between the
               Bank and the  Vojvodinan  Borrower  on the basis of
               feasibility studies and detailed designs.
Part II:  Road Maintenance
A.   Maintenance Planning System
     Establishment of a pilot  road maintenance planning system in
Croatia, taking  into  account  the  characteristics  of the roads
network and its  traffic,  and  the  provision  of road and bridge
maintenance and toll equipment.
Page  13
B.   Maintenance System Equipment
     Provision of equipment to  the Montenegrin Borrower, Croatian
Borrower, Macedonian  Borrower  and  Vojvodinan  Borrower for road
maintenance planning.
Part III: Technical Assistance and Training
A.   Project Preparation and Planning
     A technical assistance program  to strengthen FARP's capacity
for project preparation and planning.
B.   Training
     A training  program,  including  foreign  training  and local
seminars, for the  staff  of  the  Borrowers  and  FARP in highway
maintenance  management,  bridge  management  and  maintenance and
traffic management and safety.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                      Amortization Schedules
                                          Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)*
For Montenegrin Borrower:
     On each March 15 and September 15
          beginning March 15, 1991
          through September 15, 2002                 400,000
For Croatian Borrower:
     On each March 15 and September 15
          beginning March 15, 1991
          through   March 15, 2002                   245,000
     On September 15, 2002                           265,000
For Macedonian Borrower:
     On each March 15 and September 15
          beginning March 15, 1991
          through March 15, 2002                     745,000
     On September 15, 2002                           765,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalent
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                                          Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       expressed in dollars)*
For Vojvodinan Borrower:
Page  14
     On each March 15 and September 15
          beginning March 15, 1991
          through   September 15, 2002             1,175,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalent
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The  following  percentages  are  specified  as  the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of  maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of any Loan  pursuant  to Section 3.O4 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          .20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          .40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            .73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but                         .87
     not more thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                          1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Civil Works and Goods
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   All bidders for civil works  included under the Project shall
be prequalified as described in Part 1.3 of the Guidelines.
3.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for road maintenance
equipment shall be grouped in a single bid package.
4.   Foreign contractors and  suppliers  shall  not be required to
register in Yugoslavia as  a  prerequisite for submitting bids. In
the event that  registration  shall  be  required  after a foreign
contractor or supplier has been notified that he will be awarded a
contract, the  respective  Borrower  shall  facilitate  the regis-
Page  15
tration.
5.   Each contract for goods  and  works shall include a provision
that the respective Borrower shall  take all measures necessary on
its part to enable  contractors  and suppliers to import equipment
and materials and specialized  manpower  as  required to carry out
their services.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or
less per contract, but not  more than the equivalent of $7,900,000
in the aggregate in the  case  of the Montenegrin Borrower and not
more than the equivalent  of  $8,700,000  in  the aggregate in the
case of the Vojvodinan  Borrower,  may be procured under contracts
awarded  on the basis  of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Goods estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of $150,000 or less
per contract, but not  more  than  the equivalent of $1,100,000 in
the aggregate, may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded on the
basis of comparison of  price  quotations  solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more,  the  procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for  such  contract  are  to  be  made  out  of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the first payment out of such Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are  to  be  made  out  of  a  Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  8 (the Special
Accounts) to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Loan  Accounts  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.03 (b) of this Agreement.
3.   The  figure  of  10%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     For purposes of carrying out  Part  III of the Project,  FARP
shall employ highway  management consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
Page  16
factory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by  The  World  Bank  as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                Modifications of General Conditions
     For the purpose  of  this  Agreement,  the  provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     1. Paragraph 4 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
          "4.  The term 'Loan' means any of the loans provided for
     in the Loan Agreement  and  the  term  'Loans' means all such
     loans collectively."
     2.   Paragraph 6  of  Section  2.01  is  amended  to  read as
follows:
          "6. The term 'Borrower' means  any of the parties to the
     Loan  Agreement  to  which  a  Loan  is  made  and  the  term
     'Borrowers' means all such parties collectively."
     3.   Paragraph 10  of  Section  2.01  is  amended  to read as
follows:
          "10. The term 'Loan  Account'  means any of the accounts
     opened by the Bank on its books in the name of a Borrower and
     the   term   'Loan   Accounts'   means   all   such  accounts
     collectively."
     4.   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
                            SCHEDULE 6
     Actions to be taken by each  of  the Borrowers and by FARP in
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section
2.08 of the Loan Agreement:
1.   (a)  Upon any  such  Borrower's  written  request, FARP shall
promptly take the following  action  with  respect  to the Loan of
such Borrower:
          (i)  make   applications   for   withdrawal   from   the
               respective Loan Account and pay to the Borrower, or
               on its order, the amounts so withdrawn;
         (ii)  request  the  Bank   to   enter  into  any  special
               commitments in  accordance  with  the provisions of
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions;
        (iii)  give the Bank notice of any repayment in advance of
               maturity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
               paragraph  (b)  of  Section  3.04  of  the  General
               Conditions;
         (iv)  give  the  Bank  any   notice  of  cancellation  in
               accordance with the  provisions  of Section 6.01 of
               the General Conditions; and
          (v)  in general, take  any  action required or permitted
               to be taken by the  Borrower in accordance with the
               provisions of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Any request submitted  to  FARP  in  accordance with the
provisions of  paragraph  (a)  above  shall  be  in  such form and
include such supporting documentation  as  FARP shall determine in
Page  17
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
2.   All payments to be made to  the  Bank by any of the Borrowers
shall be made through FARP, provided that for such purpose:
     (a)  FARP shall  open  an  account  with  Vojvodjanska Banka-
Udruzena Banka, Novi Sad  to  be  used exclusively for making such
payments (the  Special  Fund),  the  necessary  details about such
Special Fund to be communicated to all Borrowers;
     (b)  each of the Borrowers  shall  make any such payment into
the Special Fund in  such  currency  or  currencies, and not later
than five working days before such  date, as such payments have to
be made to the Bank in  accordance with the provisions of the Loan
Agreement;
     (c)  not later than 15 working days before any payment is  to
be made into the Special Fund in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (b) above, FARP shall advise the respective Borrowers of
the currency or currencies of payment and of the payment due date;
and
     (d)  using the funds paid  by  the  Borrower into the Special
Fund, FARP shall promptly make to the Bank the payments to be made
by such Borrower.
3.   FARP shall: (i)  assign  qualified  and  experienced staff in
sufficient numbers for the carrying  out  of the actions on behalf
of each of the  Borrowers  in  accordance with this Schedule; (ii)
periodically determine  its  costs  and  expenditures  incurred in
carrying out such actions; and  (iii) charge each of the Borrowers
with its share of such  costs  and  expenditures. Each of the Bor-
rowers shall promptly reimburse FARP  for  its share of such costs
and expenditures as so determined by FARP.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                     Highway Design Standards
     Each of the Borrowers  shall  construct the highways included
in Part I of the  Project  in accordance with the design standards
set out below:
            Regional Roads                   Primary Roads
 Type of                         Moun-                    Moun-
 Terrain   Unit   Flat  Hilly   tainous   Flat    Hilly  tainous
Design
  Speed   km/hr   100-  100-     80-       80-     80-    40-
                  120   120     100       100     100     80
Maximum
 gradient   %     2.0   6.0     9.0         2       6      9
Road width
  (min.)    m     1x7.5-        1x7.5-    1x7.5-  1x7.5  1x7.0
1x6.0
                  2x7.5 2x7.5   2x6.0
Width of
  emergency
  lane      m       2.5   2.5     -          -      -     -
Width of
 shoulder   m      2x1.3        2x1.3     2x1.05  2x1.3  2x1.3
2x1.05
Horizontal
  curves    m     2,000-        2,000-    700-    2,000- 700-
400-
                  700   700     400       700     400    100
Page  18
Vertical
  curves
Summits     m    12,00012,000    7,000    7,000   7,000    3,000
minimum
Sags        m     8,000 8,000    5,000    5,000   5,000    2,000
minimum
Maximum
  single
Design
  axle load Ton   10    10      10        10      10     10
Type of
  wearing
  surface    -  Asphalt/ Asphalt/ Asphalt/ Asphalt/ Asphalt/  Asphalt/
          Con-  Con-    Con-      Con-     Con-    Sur-     Sur-
          crete crete   crete     crete    crete   face     face
(Check in part of Schedule)
Surface  Surface  dressing
dressing dressing
     Structures designed in compliance with DIN 1072 standard.
                            SCHEDULE 8
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories  set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out  of the proceeds of each of the
Loans allocated from time  to  time  to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation"  means  an amount to be
withdrawn from the respective  Loan  Account  by each Borrower and
deposited in its Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule as follows:
Montenegrin Borrower  Special Account A    $900,000 equivalent
Croatian Borrower     Special Account B    $400,000 equivalent
Macedonian Borrower   Special Account C    $1,600,000 equivalent
Vojvodinan Borrower   Special Account D    $2,500,000 equivalent
2.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, payments out of
each  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it  that
a  Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request  or requests by a Borrower for
a deposit or deposits which add  up to the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of such Borrower,
withdraw from the  respective  Loan  Account  and  deposit in such
Borrower's Special Account such  amount or amounts as suchBorrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  Each Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of its Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from the respective  Loan  Account  and deposit into such
Page  19
Special Account such  amounts  as  shall  be required to replenish
such Special Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding  the amount of
payments  made  out   of   such   Special   Account  for  eligible
expenditures. All such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn by the Bank
from the respective  Loan  Account  under  the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  a  Borrower  out  of its Special
Account for which such Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule,  such Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  a Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when either of the following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made  directly by the respec-
               tive Borrower from  the  respective Loan Account in
               accordance with the provisions  of paragraph (a) of
               Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the respective Loan
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount of any  special  commitment  entered into by
               the Bank pursuant  to  Section  5.02 of the General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the respective Loan Account
of  the  remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  respective  Loan
allocated to the eligible  Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall  specify  by  notice to the respective Borrower.
Such further withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after  and to the
extent that the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in  the respective Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account  (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to  paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of  this Schedule, the respective Borrower
shall, promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit into such
Borrower's Special Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount  equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Bank into  such Borrower's Special Account shall be
made until such Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in a  Special  Account  will not be required to
cover further payments  for  eligible expenditures, the respective
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice  from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount for  crediting to the respective Loan
Account.
