DocUment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6814
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ALGERIA
BAS-CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 1802-AL)
May 29, 1987
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
This dociment has a resticted dirbution and may be ued by  ipiens only In the performnce d
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dielosed wIthout World Bank auhoriaton.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                          Dinar (DA)
Cur.^ency Exchange Rates
. At Appraisal                                       US$ 1.0 = DA 3.82
. Weighted Average during Implementation:            US$ 1.0 = DH 5.00
ABBREVIATIONS
MH : Ministry of Hydraulics, Environment and Forests
(Minist6re de l'hydraulique, de 12environnement et des forets)
PCR : Project Completion Report
(Rapport d'achevement du projet)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFCLUEOLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0Ok. of DOgtcwGgnwal
Opwatwn Evatotwn
May 29, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Algeria:
Bas-Cheliff Irrigation Project
(Loan 1802-AL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
'Project Completion Report:    Algeria  Bas-Cheliff Irrigation Project
(Loan 1802-AL)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. Further evaluation of this project by the Operations
Evaluation Department has not been made.
Ram K. Chopra
for Yves Rovani
Attachment
This document has a rostricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfformne
of their offcbl dutios Its contents may not otherwise be distosed without World hik autbdmitbn



FOR O1!'7 L UE ONLY
ALGERIA
BAS-CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Lon 1802-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PusO No.
PREFACE                                                                   i
BASIC DATA SHEET  ..**,......*......................                     ii
EVALUATION SUNMARY....... .... . ............. .. . *......... {v
I.     BACKGROUND:  ORIGIN AND OBJECTIVES .....................                  1
II.    PROJECT FORMULATION ..........        .............  ..........          1
Identification and Preparation ........................................  1
*   Project Components and Issues at Appraisal .........                 2
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....3o..........                                   3
*   Effectiveness  ....................................                  3
*   Project Execution and Delays                                         3
Contracting for the Major Project Works ............                 3
Project Execution                    ...                             4
Costs and Disbursements                                              7
*   Procurement                                                          8
IV.    PERFORMANCE ...... *******@   ..............................             10
The CcGsultants .....        ...............................        10
The Borrower ..*******............................                  11
*   The Bank  ****....**..*******.......................                11
V.     PROJECT IMPACT AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ..............                 12
Project Impact and Lessons Learned *          ................      12
Project Economic Evaluation           ........................      13
ANNEXES
Implementation Schedule                                             15
Actual Schedule for Disbursements                                   16
Comments from the Borrower                                          17
MAP
IBRD 14460
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offici duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ALGERIA
BAS-CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 1802-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.       This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Algeria Bas Cheliff
Irrigation Project, for which Loan 1802-AL, in the sum of US$8.0 million was
approved on March 26, 1980. The loan closing date, originally June 30, 1984,
was postponed to June 30, 1985 and not extended thereafter. Final Loan
disbursement totalled about US$6.1 million and the unused balance of about
UF$1.9 million was cancelled.
2.       The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture II Division for the Europe,
Middle East and North Africa Projects Department. No completion report was
prepared by the Borrower and no country visit was made by Bank staff for the
preparation of the present PCR. The PCR is based on a review of the
President's Report (P-2702-AL) dated January 30, 1980, the Staff Appraisal
Report (2678-AL) dated January 15, 1980, the Loan Agreement and internal Bank
memoranda and reports on project implementation and issues as contained in
relevant files.
3.       The report was sent to Government on March 23, 1987 and the comments
received have been incorporated into the Project Completion Report at Annex 3.
The project has not been audited by OED.



-il -
ALGERIA
BAS-CHELtFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 1802-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual or                Actual as % of
IELUmMa..       Estimated Actual          Angratial E2timate
Total Project Cost (USS M)           13.3                 14.0                     10l
Loan Amount (USS million)             8.0                  6.1                      76
Board Approval Date                2/26/80              2/26/80                      -
Loan Agreement Date                3/26/80              3/26/80                      -
Effectiveness                      7/28/80              6/16/81                      -
Completion Oate                    6/30/83             12/31/86                      -
Proportion Completed by
Above Date (X)                    100                  100                         -
Closing Date                       6/30/84              6/30/8S                      -
Economic Rate of Return              73                   25                        34
Financial Performance                                    Poor                        -
Institutional Performance             -                  Fair
Agricultural Performance
B. CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
EAI EMU W ElM EM E
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)           1.1      3.3     7.4      8.0      -        -
Actual               (USS million)         0       0        0.1      1.2      1.4      '6.1
Actual as X of estimate                    0        0       0       l5s0    18.0    76.0
Date of Final Oisbursement:  February 1986
C.  STAFF INPUT
(man-weeks)
FY75  E      E!    EA   EY   EM E8             EM   ElM   ElM fY85  Y      tOTL
Preparatton        0.2  13.1   9.0   8.6   -         -     -      -     -      -      -       30.9
Appraisal           -     -    13.2  21.7   -        -     -      -     -      -      -       34.9
Negotiations        -     -      -     2.9   -       -     -      -     -             -        2.9
Supervision        -      -      -     2.0   5.7   5.2   2.1   5.3   1.7   0.3   -           22.3
PCR                 _                          _     _      _      _     _            Qk2      l2
Total         0.2  13.1  22.2  35.2   5.7   5.2   2.1   5.3   1.7   2.3   0.2    93.2



-iii -
0. MISSION DATA
Date    No. of   Mandays    Specialization   Perform.                 Typi of
Mission   MaL/Yr) Per2ons n In Fild /I  Reare2ente  /I Ratina /b  Ir d t   Prohblem  /d
SPN     t   6/80       1         S                            1                  -I
SPN    It  11/80       1         2            eg              2           2            M. 0
SPN   III   6/81       1        2             eg              3           2           ", 0
SPN    IV  12/81       1        4             GO              2           1             I, 0
SPN     V   6/82       2        a             eg              2           1           M. 0
IPN    VI  10/82       1         3            eg              2           2           M, 0
%PN   VII   S/83       1         3            eg              2           2           M, 0
SPN  VIII  10/83       1        5             eg              2           2           0
SPN    IX   4/84       2        10            eg              2           2           o
SPN     X   3/85       2        4.            e. ec           2           2            0
46 man-days
or   9.2  man-weeks
a  eg *engineer; ec a economist
i/    1 problem-free; 2 a moderate problems; 3 * mjor problems;
/I    1 improving; 2 a stationary; 3 a deteriorating;
/J   M 'managerial; T a technical; P a political; F a financeial; 0 a other;
/I    S mandays a I man-week.
0. OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                         The Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria.
Executing Agency                "inistry of Hydraulics. Environment and Forests.
Fiscal Year of Borrower          January 1 - Oecember 31.



- iv -
ALGERIA
BAS-CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 1802-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
The Project was the third cooperative effort by the Government of
Algeria and the Bank to work in the agricultural sector and the first effort
in the irrigation sub-sector. It was considered by the two parties as the
preliminary phase for an anticipated wider Bank involvement .an the irrigation
sub-sector. Its objectives were to safeguard the continuation of irrigated
agriculture in the Bas Cheliff district, to improve operation and maintenance
of the existing systems, and to determine, through studies, the most viable
follow-up irrigation development program in Bas Cheliff. At appraisal, the
Project was intended to provide for rehabilitation of the irrigation headworks
by the replacement or repair of the headreach and main canal structures and
the hydromechanical and electromechanical equipment, the purchase of O&M
* Lipment and the preparation of studies for follow-up irrigation development
in Bas Cheliff.
Implementation Experience
Project implementation experienced lengthy delays despite a
significant acceleration in 1985: six and a half years will be necessary for
project completion instead of three years as estimated at appraisal. At the
end of 1985, only 801 of the project works were executed. Delays occured in
bidding the project work as well as during implementation of the works.
International competitive bidding for the project rehabilitation works as
required by the Loan Agreement was unsuccessful since no offers or expressions
of interest were received. Contracts were subsequently negotiated with local
public sector companies but negotiations and contract approval took a long
time. After a slow start-up, hydromechanical works were executed
satisfactorily, but the civil and electromechanical works experienced
continuous delays, in particular for the construction of the project
aqueducts. All other project activities were undertaken in a reasonably
timely manner. The scope of the project studies was extended to include the
preparation of a water master plan for the whole Cheliff valley and the
feasibility study of the resulting development program.



- v -
Project works were completed in December 1986, and project costs are
estimated to be US$14.0 million, compared with US$13.3 million estimated at
appraisal, implying a slight overrun in US dollars terms of only 5X.
Increased costs caused by the combined effect of higher costs for the
rehabilitation works than projected at appraisal and the delays experienced in
implementation were almost offset by the effect of revaluation of the US
dollar vis a vis the Algerian dinar.
The consultants' performance was gene:ally satisfactory. The
technical assistant hired under the Project played a useful role in work
supervision but was not fully utilized for the purpose for which he was hired
because of the frequent interruptions of the project works. Studies
undertaken under the Water Master Plan were generally comprehensive, well
documented and consistent with the contract requirements.
Technical staff of Ministry of Hydraulics displayed a great deal of
effort and patience in monitoring project works but did not have any
significant impact on speeding up implementation of the project works. They
did not benefit from any notable support from the Ministry officials who had
the power to impose certain discipline on the civil works contractor to
improve work implementation because this contractor is a public sector company
within the control of the Ministry of Hydraulics. The Pro,ect was generally
regarded as a small operation which competed with other large irrigation
projects undertaken by this contractor elsewhere in the country. With the
change in the Ministry organizational structure at the end of 1984, project
management at the central level improved substantially resulting in
significant acceleration in implementation.
The Bank supervised the Project closely and displayed flexibility in
administering it. It had, on a regular basis, invited the Government to take
measures to speed up implementation and improve disbursement but with limited
success. Given past experience with Bank-financed projects in Algeria, most
of which faced serious implementation problems, it could have been more
realistic to foresee at least five years rather than three years for project
implementation.
Results
In spite of the lengthy delays in implementation, the Project
basically met its objectives. The physical works were completed as planned
and project related studies have provided an essential framework for the
development of the river basin in the future. In addition, the Project has
offered an opportunity to Ministry of Hydraulics staff to become more aware of
the difficulties generated by the implementation of scattered rehabilitation
works of different nature which are in great need in the irrigated areas
throughout the country. It offered also an opportunity to train a local team
which is now capable of supervising similar works elsewhere in Algeria. This
is important due to the lack of qualified irrigation staff especially at the
field level.
The economic rabe of return of the Project is expected to be about
25Z compared to 73% at appraisal, the difference being the result of a



- vi -
somewhat exaggerated assessment of potential project benefits at appraisal and
the effects of significant delays in project implementation.
Findings and Lessons
The major lesson to draw is that the Government needs to encourage
the creation of more construction companies in the irrigation subsector,
particularly in the private sector to increase competition and efficiency and
achieve lower prices for works.1' The other lessons that can be learned
from the Project are that:
(a)  even in the case of a negotiated contract, particular attention
should be paid to the qualification and past experience of the
tenderer in performing the works described in the bidding documents;
(b) in future Bank operations in Algeria, the construction industry in
the sector concerned should be fully analyzed during the
preparation/appraisal process;
(c) a realistic assessment of the likelihood of international contractors
participating in project bidding is essential to ensure that
appropriate bidding procedures are used and that they are
cost-effective; and
(d) purchase of O&M equipment and vehicles under the Project proved
insufficient to generate significant improvement of operation and
maintenance of the irrigation systems by the Bas Cheliff
Subdivision. As a regional office of MH, this subdivision does not
operate efficiently because it is not fully autonomous in hiring the
staff it needs, in procuring goods, in particular those which are
sometimes urgently needed for repair works, in using budget funds and
water charges collected, or in training its staff. Institutional
improvements are also required. The Bank has pursued this issue with
the Ministry of Hydraulics which has now decided to set up new
independent O&M authorities in all large-scale irrigation areas
(OPI), including one in the Cheliff Valley. The Cheliff Irrigation
Project (FY87), recently approved by the Board, will ensure a
satisfactory establishment and start up of the Cheliff OPI.
1/  The Borrower believes ttkt public enterprises are more suited to carrying
out this type of project. See comments from the Borrower, Annex 3, page 1.



PROJECT COMPL'iTION REPORT
ALGERIA
BAS CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 1802-AL)
1. BACKGROUND: ORIGIN AND OBJECIE
1.01     The Project was the third cooperative effort by the Government of
Algeria and the Bank to work in the agricultural sector and the first effort
in the irrigation sub-sector. It was considered by the two parties as the
preliminary phase for an anticipated wider Bank involvement in the irrigation
sub-sector. It was origina:ed during the preparation of the 1979 Bank
Agricultural Sector Survey which found wide agreement among policy makers in
Algeria. The Project was a first phase of a larger project in the Bas Cheliff
area which would include rehabilitation of all parts of the irrigation and
drainage scheme. The Project was prepared on the basis of feasibility studies
and detailed designs carried out by consultants under a UNDP-financed project
for which the Bank was an executing agency.
1.02     The major objectives of the Project were (a) to safeguard the
continuation of irrigated agriculture in the Bas Cheliff district by repairing
major hydraulic structures; (b) to determine, through studies, the most viable
irrigation development program in Bas Cheliff; and (c) to improve operation
and maintenance of the existing systems by providing suitable transportation
and maintenance equipment.
EL PROJECT FORMULATION
Identification and Preparation
2.01     The Project was identified in October 1977 by the sector survey
preparation mission which was asked by the Ministry of Hydraulics (MH) to
consider Bank assistance for the rehabilitation of the Lower Cheliff
irrigation perimeter (see map). This perimeter has an old surface irrigation
system dating back to the 1930's; its major problems were deterioration of
major diversion and conveyance structures, inadequate and deteriorated
distribution network, and increasing salinity of some of the irrigated lands.
In addition, water resources had become scarce because the extension of the
Cheliff upstream perimeters had reduced available water for the lower
Cheliff. To offset this water shortage, a storage reservoir (the Merja Sidi
Abed reservoir) of 35 Mm' catching excess winter discharges in the Cheliff
river was built by Government to serve Bas-Cheliff (map). This reservoir
receives water from the diversion weir of Boukader through the Bas-Cheliff
main canal. It was completed in 1984. The Project was the first step of the
rehabilitation of the Bas-Cheliff per.meter; it was designed to finance the
23 131



repair of the major structures which were in s * poor condition that they
were expected .to break down anytime, thus causing a complete loss of the
irrigated production in the whole project area covering about 4,100 ha.
2.02     The project preparation work carried out by the UNDP financed
consultants included the preparation of feasibility study, final design and
bidding documents for the retabilitation of the Bas-Cheliff headworks, a
general report on water aivailability in the Cheliff basin, some leaching tests
and the terms of reference for follow-up works in the Bas Cheliff district.
The studies were prepared in about one year and completed on time for
appraisal of the Project in June 1979.
Prolect Components and Issues at Appraisal
2.03     Components.  The Project provided for:
(a) Civil works, including (i) replacement of three aquaducts over 263 m
and repair of fourth aqueduct; (ii) repair of the headreach canal
over 2 km; and (iii) replacement of the right bank primary canal over
900 m and repairs over 5 km;
(b) Hydromechanical works, including (i) the replacement of the six gates
of the diversion weir of Boukader; (ii) the replacement of 4 sluice
gates and repair of 3 automatic gates in the headreach canal; and
(iii) the replacement of 7 automatic gates in the primary canals;
(c) Electromechanical works, including replacement of pumps, motors and
control, power supply and various repairs in six existing electric
pumping stations and a water turbine driven pumping station;
(d) Technical assistance for the supervision of the project works and
leaching tests;
(e) Studies for the preparation of the Bas-Cheliff follow-up irrigation
development project and the feasibility study for the Oued Rhiou dam
required for the irrigation of the extended Bas-Cheliff (map); and
(f) O&M equipment, including supply of transportation and maintenance
equipment for the Bas Cheliff subdivisional office in charge of
operation and maintenance;
2.04     Issues.  Two major issues were identified at appraisal:  one related
to the manageient for O&M and the other to cost recovery.  As for O&M
management, agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government would
take all measures to ensure that the Bas Cheliff subdivisi nal office of
Ministry of Hydraulics (MH) be granted sufficient autonomy and have sufficient
funds to carry out routine operations of O&M. As for cost recovery, agreement
was reached that water charges will be determined taking into account the O&M
and capital costs, the farmers' capacity to pay and the incentives provided by
the state in the agricultural sector.
Z 3 1 3 1



- 3 -
m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness
3.01     Although there were no special conditions for loan effectiveness
other than the usual conditions on the ratification of the loan agreement and
the submission of the legal opinion, the loan effectiveness date agreed upon
at the signing of the loan was postponed six times. The Loan was declared
effective about eleven months after the date originally agreed. The actual
effectiveness date was June 16, 1981 instead of July 28, 1980. This delay was
caused by lengthy administrative procedure which preceded the preparation and
the issuance by the Government of the legal documents required. However, it
is worth noting that the delay in the loan effectiveness had no impact on
project implementation which started right after loan signature. Before the
Loan became effective, bidding for the major project works was launched and
three Bank missions visited Algeria for the supervision of the Project. The
first disbursement application was submitted by the Government in July 1983,
more than two years after the Loan became effective.
Project Execution and Delays
3.02     Despite a prompt start in the call for bidding, the Project
experienced lengthy delays despite a significant acceleration in project
implementation in 1985. At the end of this year and thirty months behind the
June 30, 1983 completion date specified in the loan agreement, only 801 of the
project works were executed. Overall, instead of three years, the Project was
completed in six and a half years, i.e., in December 1986. Delays occured
during the con tracting process as well as during work implementation. The
attached Chart compares the actual with the estimated implementation schedule
of the major project components. Details on the duration, the origin and the
causes of these delays are presented below in detail.
Contracting for the Malor Project Works
3.03     Bidding documents for the major project works were completed and
agreed upon by the Bank before the signature of the Loan, but ICB bidding was
unsuccessful and procurement had to be done through local contracting. As
agreed in the Loan Documents, Ministry of Hydraulics went for international
competitive bidding in two separate packages, one for the hydromechanical
equipment and one for civil works and electromechanical equipment. After 22
sets of tender documents were purchased by companies and embassies of eight
different countries,*' and after extending the sixty days bid advertizing
period by one month, only one bid was received from an Algerian state
company. This bid, which was for certain electromechanical equipment, was
incomplete and therefore rejected. Another partial offer was made by another
state compary for the supply of hydromechanical equipment but this was not
formally submitted as a bid. No offers or expressions of interest were
received for the tendered civil works. After reviewing the results of the
l/ France, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, U.K., Canada and Belgium.
231 3 



- 4 -
bidding, Government officials proposed and the Bank agreed that international
competitive rebidding would be a fruitless exercise and that the project
contracts could be negotiated with local enterprises. This was decided on
grounds that (a) the project civil works were rehabilitation works scattered
throughout the project area; (b) they were of substantially different nature
involving replacement of gates, construction or repair of aqueducts, repair of
lining of existing canals, and replacement of elevated pre-cast concrete
canals; (c, they were not large enough to attract foreign contractors who need
unproportionally high mobilization costs because, by law, none is authorized
to be permanently established in Algeria; and (d) the local contractors
capable of working in irrigation construction industry were very few in 1980;
they were all state companies and were heavily committed in a huge
construction backlog throughout the country. It was found out later that the
selected civil works contractor was neither interested nor fully qualified to
adequately perform any of the contracted works (para. 3.06) without very close
supervision from MH project staff.
3.04     Negotiations and approval of the two project major contracts (one for
the hydromechanical equipment and one for the civil works and the
electromechanical equipment) took a long time. The first contract was awarded
in Au&ust 1981 and the second one in December 1982, respectively 14 and 30
months following bid opening. These delays represent in fact 65% and 852
respectively of the contractual execution periods. This long time was spent
by the Ministry of Hydraulics to convince a state owned company to accept
bidding for the civil works, to agree with ic on the terms, the conditions and
the amount of the contract which was originally excessively high. Another
reason was the long time that was necessary to get the contract approved by
the National Procurement Committee which rejected it once mainly because no
reference was reportedly made in the submitted contract to some new local
procurement regulations; a new decree governing procurement in Algeria was
issued in April 1982 when the contract was under review by the Committee.
3.05     No significant delay was experienced in the biddi:ig and contracting
for the other project activities regarding the studies, the hiring of the work
supervision technical assistant and the purchase of the O&M equipment.
Project Execution
3.06     Civil Works and Electromechanical Equipment.  The delays in
implementing the contract on civil works and electromechanical equipment have
been the major factor for delaying project implementation. Because they were
scheduled to last 36 months, the works involved constituted the critical path
of project implementation. Their execution has progressed in accordance with
the following schedule:
3     3l



-5-
Status of
Date         Period /a         Implementation
Months      %           ()
Contract award                12/1982         -          -           -
Scheduled completion          12/1985        36        100          55
* Actual completion              12/1986        48       133          100
/a   Period starting at contract award date.
Implemention went very slowly and was characterized by repeated interruptions
of works. The contractor showed little interest in completing the works,
seemed to focus its efforts on other larger works (dams) elsewhere in the
country and demonstrated also that it was not fully qualified to adequately
perform most of the works involved.l- These remarks are based on the
observations that (a) there were almost continuously shortages of construction
equipment, material, supplies and manpower at the work site; (b) the
contractor did not assign to the works technical and management skills capable
of adequately supervising the works; this has led to the need for an unusually
close monitoring of the works by MH staff (para. 4.03); (c) the contractor
showed that it was simply unqualified for the works involved, in particular
for the construction of the aqueducts involving complex pile driving for the
construction of foundations in the river beds; and (d) works were often of
poor quality so that they were rejected by MH The repeated attempts by MH
supervision staff to change this trend generated certain improvements but did
not result in any shift from the overall poor management of the works, Once
restructured in 1984 (30 months after the start of the contract) as has been
the case for most of the country's public sector enterprises, the contracting
company was no longer entitled under its new statute to supply and install
electromechanical equipment. As a result, NH negotiated a new contract for
the same works with another company. The new contractor started working in
September 1985 after a delay of about eight months; works were completed by
the end of 1986.
3.07     Hvdromechanical Equipment.  Works for manufacturing and installation
of the hydromechanical equipment followed the schedule below:
1/ The _orrower had a different opinion of the contractor. See Annex 3,
pp. 1 and 2.
22113E



-6-
Status of
Date         Period /a         Implementation
Months      (%)         (%)
Contract award                08/1981         -          -           -
Scheduled completion          06/1983        22        100          35
* Completion                     04/1986        56       255          100
/a  Period starting at contract award date.
The works involved were delayed even longer than the civil works but as of
December 1986 they were fully completed. Two major factors were the cause of
this delay.  First, the contractor took a long time (17 months after the order
to commence the works) to start manufacturing the Boukader weir gates since he
was not initially well equipped for manufacturing hydraulic gates for which
the demand was very low during the previous decades and because it had a very
heavy program for constructing other types of equipment (industrial) and was
not able to keep up with its various commitments elsewhere. Second, during
the contract negotiations, the contractor declined to sign a contract for the
associated civil works such as the river diversion works and work on concrete
structures required for the installation of the new gates. MR had
consequently to perform these works under force account, which created some
delay. In an effort to overcome this problem and at the request of the Bank,
MH negotiated a contract for the same works with a Hungarian company which
submitted a bid four times more expensive than the contract with the Algerian
company; the bid was therefore rejected. MR also app-oached the most
competent company world-wide to replace the specialized proprietary
hydromechanical equipment involved, but the company declined to tender on
grounds that, in line with a long-term arrangement with the Algerian
contracting company, it could not compete with this company. Works started
slowly by the placement of one of the six gates of the Boukader weir in Summer
1983. In 1984 and 1985, the pace of works improved substantially and most
works involved were completed. The quality of the works was generally good.
3.08     Technical Assistance for work supervision.  A consultant was hired
for a 36-month period, on time for the start of the project works. This
consultant assisted in work supervision and his company reviewed and completed
all the civil engineering detailed designs, in particular for the aqueducts
which were the most complex civil works. It is worth noting, however, that
because of the frequent interruptions of the project works, the consultant was
not fully utilized for the purposes for which he was hired.   At the
expiration of his contract period at the end of 1985, the consultant left the
country before the project works had been completed: at that time, none of
the aqueducts had been fully rebuilt and none of the pumping stations had been
fully rehabilitated except the turbine driven pumping station. The only works
23 1 3t



- 7 -
that were almost fully completed before his departure were the replacement and
repair of the hydromechanical equipment.
3.09     Studies.  The scope of the project studies (para. 2.03) was
extended with the Bank agreement. In addition to the feasibility studies for
rehabilitation and extension of the Bas-Cheliff scheme and the detailed design
of a first time slice project over 5,000 ha, the studies included the
preparation of a master plan for the use of all the water resources in the
whole Cheliff Valley, the feasibility study of two dams that the Plan
considered for construction in the valley, analysis of the pollution of the
Cheliff waters, and preliminary design of a feeder canal that will provide
water from the Bas-Cheliff headreach canal to the Merja Sidi Abed reservoir
(para. 2.01). The contract for these studies was executed satisfactorily.
However, the time spent for the preparation of the studies was longer than
expected because of delays occured in the geotechnical investigations at the
sites of the dams for which feasibility studies were carried out and the time
spent for the review of the consultant draft reports and their finalization.
This generated an overall delay of about one year on the original schedule.
3.10     O&M equipment.  Equipment and vehicles were purchased as expected at
appraisal, but in mid-1983 about two years after the project start. The delay
was mainly caused by the time spent by two contracting companies to supply the
vehicles. However, in view of the delays in other works this equipment was
generally on-site when needed.
Costs and Disbursements
3.11     Costs.  At the end of 1986 project costs were US$14.0 million,
compared with US$13.3 million estimated at appraisal, implying a slight
overrun in dollar terms of only 51 despite the three-and-a-half year delay in
project implementation. This relatively small overrun in dollar terms is
mainly due to the increase in the US dollar value: the weighted exchange rate
of the US dollar during project implementation was 32 Z higher than appraisal
estimates (DA 5 instead of DA 3.8). In terms of Algerian dinars, thte project
cost was 36Z higher than estimated at appraisal:
231 3E



-8-
Actual or
Appraisal             Estimated Actual
Components                   Projection                  Costs
(DA M)               (DA M)    (2)
Civil works                         22.1                43.2      195
Hydro-mechanical equipment           7.6                 8.2      108
Electro-mechanical equipment         3.1                 6.0      194
Technical assistance                 3.9                 1.8       46
Master plan studies                  9.8                 7.1       72
O&M equipment and vehicles           4.5                 2.9       64
51.0                69.2     136
This table shows that costs of the civil works and equipment for the repair
and rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes, for which the contracts were
negotiated with local public sector companies, proved 75% higher than expected
at appraisal, while the cost of the consultant services for which limited
international tendering was undertaken according to the Bank guidelines, was
351 lower than the appraisal estimate. The cost of the O&M equipment was
lower simply because the number of the procured goods was lower than foreseen
at appraisal. .
3.12     Details of actual expenditures (payments made) as of December 31,
1985 are shown below. Project expenditures at that date totalled DA 48.7
million or about 70X of the project cost, while no expenditure had yet
actually been made for the electromechanical equiment and only 662 of the
total expected cost of the civil works was used:
Total               Total Expenditures
Components                      Costs                 at 12/31/1985
(DA M)              (DA M)            (%)
Civil works                           43.2                 29.2             66
Hydro-mechanical equipment             8.2                  7.9             96
Electro-mechanical equipment           6.0                  0                0
Technical assistance                   1.8                  1.6             89
Master plan studies                    7.1                  7.1            100
O&M equipment & vehicles               2.9                  2.9            100
TOTAL                            69.2                 48.7             70
23 L 32



- 9 -
3.13     Disbursements.  A total of US$6.1 (or 762) has been disbursed out of
the US$8.0 million Bank loan. The amount disbursed at the original closing
date of June 30, 1984 specified in the loan agreement was only US$1.2
million. The loan closing date was postponed to June 30, 1985 to allow for a
more advanced implementation of the project activities. Total disbursements
at that date was still only US$1.4 million. The remaining US$4.6 million were
disbursed in a period of only 8 months following the extended closing date.
Because of the continued slow implementation of the civil works and because
project objectives were well on line to being achieved, the loan closing date
was not extended a second time. Actual disbursements schedule is shown in
Annex and a comparison of projected and actual disbursements by category is
shown below:
Disbursement                Loan Agreement
Category                      Projection             Actual
(US$)                (US$)
Civil works                    2.4                 3.6      130
Equipment, vehicles            2.4                 1.7       71
Consultant services            2.4                 0.8       33
Unallocated                    0.8                  -        -
TOTAL                     8.0                 6.1       76
Procurement
3.14     Goods and services for the Project were grouped to the extent
practicable and were procured in seven contracts. The two contracts for
technical assistance and studies were awarded following the Bank procedure
agreed upon in the loan agreement. MR tried international competitive bidding
for the rehabilitation works as specified in the loan agreement, but because
of unsuccessful bidding results, MR negotiated the implementation of these
works with three local public sector companies (paras. 3.06-3.07). Contracts
for O&M equipment and vehicles were negotiated with two local public sector
companies as well (para. 3.10). The breakdown of the project amount according
to the contract size, the procurement procedure, and the type of goods and
services is as follows:
23 1 3£



- 10 -
Loan Agreement            Negotiated
Contracts                                   Procedure                Contracts
-- (DA million) ------
Civil works                                                              43.2
Hydromechanical equipment                                                 8.2
Electromechanical equipment                      -                        6.0
Technical assistance                              1.8                     -
O&M equipment                                     -                       1.7
Vehicles                                          1.2                     -
Master plan studies                               7.1                    _
TOTAL                                      10.1                    59.1
IV. PERFORMANCE
The Consultants
4.01     The cons-ultants' performance was generally satisfactory.  The
consultant hired to assist in work supervision had a long experience in
monitoring civil works and was supported by specialized experts from his
company in dealing with complex technical problems. He maintained a good
relationship with his local counterparts. His company carried out all
detailed design of the structures to be built or repaired under the Project.
However, as mentioned in para. 3.08, the consultant was not fully used all the
time (3 years) he spent in Algeria because of the frequent interruptions in
the works, and this caused some frustration for MH officials who referred to
problems with consultants recommending the appropriate remedies. Clearly the
delays did have the effect of reducing the efficiency of the consultant's
contribution towards monitoring the technical quality of the executed works.
He contributed most to the works on the replacement of the Boukader weir gates
and the sheet pile driving for the construction of the aqueducts which were
completed before he left Algeria.
4.02     Studies carried out by consultants under the Water Master Plan were
generally comprehensive, well documented and consistent with the contract
requirements. They led to the identification and technical and financial
justification of the most viable long-term program for developing water
resources for agriculture and domestic purposes in the Cheliff valley. The
Government has requested the Bank to consider financing the irrigation
investments determined under this development program through a series of
follow-up projects.
2 3 X 3 t



- 1.1 -
The Borrower
4.03     MR staff in charge of project execution displayed a great deal of
effort and patience in monitoring the project activities. Bidding started
right after loan approval. A local supervision team was established on time
and strengthened by a consultant hired right before the start of the works.
In addition, works were closely monitored by competent engineers from the
Ministry of Hydraulics in Algiers. They often acted on behalf of the
contractor staff in directly organizing and managing the works or in obtaining
the necessary equipment and supplies which were almost continuously lacking at
the work site. For the studies, the terms of reference and the letter of
invitation prepared by MR staff were fully adequate.
4.04     The delays mostly originated with the civil works contractor which is
a public sector company under the the supervisiory authority of the Ministry
of Hydraulics. MH project supervision staff were not able to intervene to
improve the company's performance because they were not authorized to take any
coercive action against a public sector company; intervention was the
responsibility of other Ministry colleagues who dealt with monitoring the
performance of the contractor. This situation was one of the major structural
impediments which prevented MH project staff from having any significant
impact on speeding up implementation of the civil works. High ranking
officials in this Ministry were, however, in a more powerful position to
impose certain discipline on the contractor to fulfill its contractual
commitments.   With the change '.n the Ministry organizational structure at the
end of 1984, project management at the central level improved substantially
resulting in significant acceleration of implementation.
4.05     The Governmaent complied with loan conditions except those regarding
audit of the account of the Bas Cheliff O&M Subdivision. It prepared and
forwarded to the Bank, at regular intervals, progress reports on the project
activities and expenditures. It improved the operations of the O&M Bas
Cheliff subdivisional office by assigning more qualified staff and by
equipping it with vehicles in sufficient numbers. The office was also
granted sufficient funds to carry out, starting in 1982/83, routine operations
relating to the operation and maintenance of the irrigation network. In
addition, the Government increased the water charges in the project area by
more than 502 in October 1985. Although it furnished to the Bank certified
copies of the project accounts, it never provided any audit report on these
accounts as required under thc' Loan Agreement.
The Bank
4.06     The Bank supervised the Project very closely and displayed
flexibility in administering it. Ten technical supervision missions involving
about nine man-weeks were fielded in addition to other missions by management
during which a special focus was made on the problems faced by the delay in
project implementation. The staff involved were all irrigation engineers.
Supervision missions were often devoted to draw attention of MH officials on
the delays experienced. The Bank had,.on a regular basis, sent telexes and
letters to invite the Government to take measures to speed up implementation
231 3t



- 12 -
and to improve disbursements, but this seldom materialized in significant
progress except in 1985. When the works did not start long after the major
contracts had been awarded, the Bank missions suggested to MR to re-bid a
second time for all project works. This proposal found a great resistance
from officials of this ministry who argued that any delay in implementation
can be accepted if it is the price to pay for consolidating the experience of
the local companies in the construction industry. If, despite the continuous
delays, they prefered to go ahead with the civil works contract, they sought,
however, tendering for the hydromechanical equipment but with no success
(para. 3.07). However, given past experience with Bank financed projects in
Algeria, most of which faced serious implementation problems, the Bank should
have foreseen at least five years rather than three years for project
implementation.
V. PROJECT IMPACT AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Project Impact and Lessons Learned
5.01     In spite of the lengthy delays and frustrating problems encountered
during its implementation, the Project will meet its physical objectives and
in addition provide an opportunity for MH staff (a) to become more aware of
the difficulties generated by the implementation of scattered rehabilitation
works of different nature; and (b) to train a team which is now capable of
supervising similar works elsewhere in Algeria. The major lesson to draw for
the future is that it is urgent for the Government to encourage the creation
of more construction companies in the irrigation subsector to increase
competition and efficiency and achieve lower prices for works. The other
lessons that can be learned from the Project are that:
(a) even in the case of a negotiated contract, particular attention
should be paid to the qualification and past experience of the
tenderer in performing the works described in the bidding documents;
and
(b) in future Bank operations in Algeria, the construction industry in
the sector concerned should be fully analyzed during the
preparation/appraisal process and the contract package designed only
after a realistic assessment has been made of the likely level of
commitment of foreign and local bidders in the works proposed; and
(c) purchase of O&M equipment and vehicles under the project proved
insufficient to generate significant improvement of operation and
maintenance of the irrigation systems by the Bas Cheliff
Subdivision. As a regional office of XH, this subdivision does not
operate efficiently because it is not fully autonomous in hiring the
staff it needed, in procuring goods in particular those which are
sometimes urgenttly needed for repair works, in using budget funds and
water charges collected, or in training its staff. Institutional
arrangements are also required. The Bank has pursued this issue with
23 1 3E



- 13 -
the Ministry of Hydraulics which has now decided to set up new
independent O&M authorities in all large-scale irrigation areas
(OPt), including one in the Cheliff Valley. The Cheliff Irrigation
Project (FY87), currently under preparation, will ensure a
satisfactory establishment and start up of the Cheliff OPI.
Project Economic Evaluation
5.02     The Appraisal Approach.  The PCR has taken a different approach in
analyzing the economic evaluation of the Project from the one taken at
appraisal. At appraisal, it was considered that the purpose of the Project
was to avoid the return of the then irrigated agriculture to rainfed
agriculture because of the collapse of the irrigation headworks. It was
considered that, without the Project, this collapse would occur within five
years af%er the project start causing a termination of water delivery in Bas
Cheliff land. Therefore, the benefits of the Project were considered to
derive from keeping the production value at the level prevailing before the
Project (mostly deriving from rruits and vegetables) rather than becoming
rainfed production (mostly wheat, barley and vetch-oat). The costs included
those for the rehabilitation of the headworks and the purchase of O&M
equipment. No costs were taken into account for the full rehabilitation of
the irrigation distribution system which outlasted its economic life since it
was constructed in 1940. The economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at
731.
5.03     The PCR Approach.  The PCR approach has not made the assumption that
without the Project the major headworks would collapse. These headworks
although sever.ely deteriorated did not break down during the severe 1982
earthquake which affected the project area. The analysis of the PCR is to
estimate the ERR of a "project" of which the Bas Cheliff Project is the first
time slice operation. It is based on the assumption that the Bas Cheliff
Project investment to rehabilitate the headworks coupled with additional
investments that the Government has decided to make under a follow-up project
to rehabilitate the irrigation distribution and drainage systems would help
make full use of the water made available in the Merja Sidi Abed dam (para.
2.01) by ensuring adequate irrigation of about 5,000 ha in Bas Cheliff. The
without project situation was considered to remain the same as the one
prevailing before the Project.
5.04     The benefits have been estimated on the basis of the present and
projected cropping patterns and crop yields set up under the studies for the
Cheliff Water Master Plan adjusted where necessary. Prices are based on
economic prices for traded commodities and actual farmgate prices for the
non-traded output all adjusted in 1985 const-ant DA using a shadow exchange
rate of $1 * DA 6.7 to take into account a 40% overvaluation of the Algerian
DA. The costs, all valued in economic prices, include (a) investment and
replacement costs of the headworks replaced or repaired under the Project; (b)
investment and replacement costs of the irrigation, drainage and road
infrastructure that will be replaced or repaired over 5,000 ha downstream of
the headworks under a follow up project; and (c) investments to improve O&M in
this area. Operating costs include all the necessary recurrent costs required
I 3 1 3 t



- 14 -
to maintain the irrigation systems at a level adequate to avoid frequent
rehabilitation. All on-farm investments and costs for commercial inputs and
labor are included in the economic analysis.
5.04     On the basis of the costs and benefits discussed above, and an
assumed project life of 35 years (as in the SAR), the estimated economic rate
of return of the Project is about. 25S. The main reasons for the lower rate of
return than at appraisal are: (a) the approach adopted at appraisal which
exaggerates the benefits generated by the Project because it was based on an
extremely pessimistic assumption that the headworks in Bas Cheliff would
collapse within five years after the project starts; and (b) the significant
delays in implementation.
5.05     Beneficiaries.  At appraisal, beneficiariea were to include about 800
private farmers, 1,250 members of socialist farms and roughly 1,600 seasonal
workers, for a total of 3,650 farm families, or about 27,500 people. Since
that time (1980), socialist farms have been restructured, but more recent
information was not available to the mission on the changes in land holdings
and population in the project area. In the absence of any detailed
information, it can be assumed that the number of beneficiaries is still in
the order of 25,000 - 30,000 people.1'
l/ The Borrower has added that the areas actually irrigated after
rehabilitation have increased to 4,500 ha from 3,500 ha in preceding years
and in addition, the quality of water is improved. Finally, an important
benefit of the project is that the farmers are more confident that water
delivery will be adequate and timely. See Annex 3, page 2.



- 15 -                               ANNEX I
CHART
ALGERIA
BAS-CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 1802-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Implementation Schedule
Years
Components                       1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
CIVIL WORKS AND EQUIPMENT
1.  Hydromechanical Equipment
-    Estimated                 .....
-    Actual .
2. Electromechanical Equipment
and Civil Works
-    Estimated
-    Actual                          . - _ _  - _ _ .
3. Consultants for Supervision
-    Estimated                     _ ___      -     -
-    Actual                                                                    _
4.  Maintenance Equipment and
Vehicles
-    Estimated
-    Actual (several contracts)
STUDIES
Hydrologic Model and
Preparation of
Bas-Cheliff II Project
-    Estimated                      .
-    Actual                  _ _-
Legend ........  Tendering
Bid evaluation and award
Execution
2313E/pl5



- 16 -                          ANNEX 2
ALGERIA
_S-CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 1802-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulated Disbursements
Appraisal                     Actual
Fiscal Year                        Estimate                             _
-----------(US$ million) --- 
1981
December 31, 1980                0.5                           0.0        0
June     30, 1981                 1.1                          0.0        0
1982
December 31, 1981                 2.0                          0.0        0
June     30, 1982                 3.3                          0.0        0
1983
December 31, 1982                 5.2                          0.0        0
June     30, 1983                 7.4                          0.1        1
1984
December 31, 1983                 8.0                          1.2       15
June     30, 1984                -                             1.2       15
1985
December 31, 1984                -                             1.2       15
June     30, 1985                -                             1.4       18
1986
December 31, 1985                 -                            1.7       21
February 28, 1986                -                             6.1       76
23 I X/pVi



- 17 -                                    ANNEX 3
ia81 of
E-910/87      May 11, 1987
French        (Algeria)
OED Dl        TS:me
Ministry of Hydraulics, Environment and Forests
Directorate of Large Irrigated Perimeters
Algiers, April 15, 19W7
No. 284/DGPI/139T
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture and Human
Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
Subiect:  Bas-Ch   ff PCR - Loan 1802-AL of June 23, 1986
Ref.:     Your communication of March 23, 1987
Dear Sir:
I have the honor to convey to you our comments on the Project
Completion Report on the Bas-Cheliff project prepared by the Agriculture II
Division and for which Loan 1802-AL was granted.
These comments are based on qualitative assessments of the borrower
concerning the execution of the project and with reference to the content of
the PCR.
Re: Highlights - 9 - P. IV.
It should be noted with regard to the delays in implementation that
the rehabilitation works failed to attract contractors despite the call for
bids, and that it is difficult for local private contractors to undertake such
works which require high technology, specialized equipment and highly
specialized personnel, resources not generally possessed by private
enterprises in Algeria.
It is important to underscore that the value of this project lies in
having succeeded, despite lengthy delays in the works, in developing teams
capable of completing the project using local means, something that only
public enterprises are able to do, at acceptable cost, under the present
conditions in the country.
Re: III. Project Implementation, para. 3.06
It is stated that as of March 1986, the works were 60S completed.
This percentage needs to be reconciled with that shown on p. II
(Highlights), where it is stated that as of the end of March 1985, the works
were 801 completed. The first percentage is the correct one.
Moreover, it is also stated that the contractor was not qualified
for the works involved. This would not appear to be correct, for the good



ANNLX 3
Page 2 of 2
- 18 -
reason that all the works have now been completed, following the seme
contractor's decision to apply the means necessary for execution of the
project.
It must be pointed out that all of the works entrusted to national
contractors have been accepted. At no time was irrigation of the Bas-Chaliff
perimeter interrupted notwithstanding the long time taken to complete the
works. An appreciable improvement in the operating conditions of the
facilities and the distribution of the water was observed during the 1986
Irrigation season.
The areas actually irrigated amounted to a net total of 4,000 ha as
opposed to 3,500 ha in the preceding years. Greater efficiency in bringing
the water to the perimeter has made it possible for this figure to be raised
to 4,500 ha in the current year. The quality of the water, in the Merdja
Sidi-Abed reservoir, is better. This is due to the fact that the waters of
the Cheliff can be taken off at maximum flows permitted by the new width of
the repaired canal, in ttie periods when the water is carrying the least
entrained matter. The reservoir now reaches its highest level in March
whereas in earlier years, when the main canal was in poor shape, it did not
fill up till the end of May.
General Conclusions
Despite the real problems encountered in the execution of the works,
the project, now completed, is unquestionably beneficial from the twofold
angle of ensuring year-round water supply to the perimeter and for the
agricultural economy of the region; the farmers have much more confidence in
the water distribution authority since they are assured that the quantities of
water allocated to them will actually be made available at the time they are
needed. The project has a definite psychological effect in that these farmers
have more faith in the quality of the service provided by the concessionnaire
and in the security of the water supply.
Apart from the above comments, I can inform you that the borrower is
in agreement with the content of the PCR.
Yours sincerely,
s/B. Lalawi
Director of Large Irrigated
Perimeters



BAP SECTION



IBRD 14460
ALGIERS                     IT        C  EXIST1NU                                                                        AUGUST 1979
ALGERIA                                                       Gi RRiGATION DISTRICT POUNDARY
CHELIFF ~~~~~~~ IRRIGATION   PROJECT                                                             -    S~~~~~~~~~~~~ECTOR BOUNDARY
BAS  CHLF                           RIAIN PO ETGA  GROSS AREA OF SECTOR
UT     GROSS ARRA UNDER COMAMAND (Pi ~.pph.d b, puAApng)
EL    HECTAIRES PARTIALLY EQUIPPED FOR IRRIGATION
L   E R IA                      Al    ~~~~~~~HEC TARES ACTUALILY IRRIGATED
AL GE RI A              *         ®     ~~~~~~PUMPING STATIONS/
-~ PRIMARY CANALS
SECONDARY CANALS
PRIMARY DRAINS
SECTOR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY DRAINS                                                                                              IOETA
UNDERGROUIND PIPES
IY   j     DESILTING GATES
RIVERS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~    ~ESRA   U
PAVED ROADS ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ~             SEAE
ALSAAA A'   I                ~~~TIIyAAARI H                                                              TRAILWAY
AV,I  AS ,~~~~~~~~~~~~,S    IXAVAAAI TA5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       NETON
S7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
&C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                                 NMdI d Ad14ALIR
UU3TIAPI  ~   ~            ~            ~            ~                                  HA                                      ROU KAC~ECTO
AIU3US~~~~  $E~~~TCIS        A                     SE     TRC  1
735 IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?E~~SCO
AUTH  I \HAMAENA                        DJ   UIA                                      HyA                                                                                                              AM AI,*sA0. WAAAAG~,~A~A
-  83                                                                           -.                                                                               A *, .AAA. AHAAA A  .Ahan,..tAA.d   H. ~~~~~~M.,d.   5,m aAn.
~~~                   Al                                                                              A~~~~~~~~~~G  W    U  .   A  .  A  I, n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OUE  RIO        YL5   e



