Document of
The World Bank                           Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repo No. P-2702-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
January 30, 1980
s lewmast km a redseIted dst1rlbm  n may be and1 by reclpl m_y in bt  pufumme oI
tmer eMkW du". Ils egtmts may " utdmwwe be dieWdd wites Wqd  sh aIbk 1uti_      .



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1979)
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$  1.00                  DA  3.82
DA   1.00                  US$ 0.26
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)              0.04 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)          0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)                 2.47 acres (ac)
1 cubic meter per              35.28 cubic feet per second (cfs)
second (m3/sec)
1 liter per second (1/sec)    0.264 US gallons per second (gp6)
1 kilogram (kg)                2.205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
5AD:       Banque Algirienne de D6veloppement/Algerian Development Bank
BNA:       Banque Nationale d'Alg6rie/National Bank of Algeria
CAPCS:     Cooperatives Agricoles Polyvalentes Coumunales de Services/
Commune Level Agriculture Service Centers
MARA:      Ministgre de l'Agriculture et de la Revolution Agraire/
Ministry of Agriculture and of Agrarian Revolution
ONAB:      Office National des Aliments du BEtail/National Office for Livestock Feed.
SONELGAZ:  Socite Nationale de l'Electricite et du Gaz/National Power & Gas Company
Wilaya:    Province



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Hydraulics
Amount:              US$8 million equivalent
Terms:               Seventeen years with a four year grace period, and
interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:        The project is the first stage of an eventual three-stage
effort to assist the Government in rehabilitating old and
badly damaged irrigation infrastructure, reclaiming lands
lost to salinity and rationalizing and developing irri-
gated agriculture in the Bas Cheliff district. The
proposed project would focus on the most urgently needed
civil works to ensure the continuation of irrigated
agriculture on some 4,000 ha in the district, and on
measures to improve operations and strengthen maintenance.
Studies are included for the preparation of second- and
third-stage projects which would emphasize respectively
(i) improvements in irrigated agricultural production and
reclamation works for some 10,000 ha, and (ii) the con-
struction of water mobilization works and extension of the
irrigation network.
The project would consist of (i) the repair of the diver-
sion weir, the main and primary canals, sluice gates,
pumping stations and an aqueduct; (ii) the reconstruction
of part of the primary canal and three aqueducts, the
replacement of several sluice and automatic gates and
pumping station equipment and the provision of a power
supply line; (iii) purchase of maintenance and transport
equipment; and (iv) the provision of technical assistance
and studies, most of which relate to the preparation of
the second and third stage projects. Consultants fees
are estimated at $10,000 per man-month, including inter-
national travel and subsistence.
Benefits include the maintenance of the value of present
agricultural production which, without the project, would
be reduced by 90 percent. Some 18,500 farmers and laborers
and their families would benefit. The project faces no
special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                 --------US$ Million--------
Local      Foreign      Total
Civil Works                             2.3          1.9        4.2
Equipment                               1.0         2.0          3.0
Engin-ering, Administration             0.2         0.6         0.8
Studies                                 0.4         1.5          1.9
Total Base Cost                    3.9         6.0         9.9
Physical Contingencies                  0.5         0.6          1.1
Price Contingencies                     0.9         1.4         2.3
Subtotal                           1.4         2.0         3.4
Total                              5.3         8.0        13.3
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan              8.0
Government             5.3
13.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                                --------US$ Million---------
FY  1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual              1.1     2.2      4.1      0.6
Cumulative          1.1     3.3      7.4      8.0
Rate of Return:       73 percent
Staff Apraisal
Report:             No. 2678a-AL of January 15, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria for the equivalent of
US$8 million, to help finance a Bas Cheliff I Irrigation Project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at
8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economic Situation and Pros-
pects of Algeria" (1816-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 17, 1978. Updating economic missions visited Algeria in May 1978 and
in March and December 1979. The main conclusions of the missions are given in
the following paragraphs. An Updating Economic Memorandum is under prepara-
tion. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending 1980.
These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by referendum
in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are (i) to expand and organize the
production base, enabling the economy to reach a stage of self-sustained
growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which
implies that the country would rely first on its own resources for develop-
ment, although international economic relations would be expanded and diversi-
fied; and (iii) to improve income distribution, particularly among regions.
These objectives, and the strategy which has evolved towards their implementa-
tion, take into account the country's physical and socio-economic potential;
the country's leadership is deeply committed to them. Political developments
following the illness and death of President Boumediene have not affected
Algeria's prevailing economic policies. A smooth transfer and wider sharing
of power among political institutions have characterized the transition
leading to the election of President Chadli Bendjedid and the appointment
of a new Government in March 1979. The strategy of the new development plan
is expected to be discussed and the Plan approved in the spring of 1980.
4.        The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industrial base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks, and austerity in consumption are the main elements
of Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter, introduced
in 1976, places emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects
of the strategy. Whereas priority goes to hydrocarbon development as a means
of accumulating financial resources, investments in other industries must
henceforth be tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and
implement projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the



- 2 -
rates of development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specif-
ically underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for
increasing incomes and improving their distribution, and for substituting
agricultural imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of
economic and social life so as to achieve the country's development objectives
with maximum efficiency, while the principle of central planning of the econ-
omy will be maintained. Workers' participation in the new management struc-
tures, introduced in 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of
people's assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already
effective at local government level, has been introduced at the national level
by the new constitution approved in November 1976. The President and the
new Government have reaffirmed their commitment to the basic principles of
Algeria's long-term development objectives and strategy and implementation of
the National Charter.  Emphasis has been put, in particular, on the need for
better utilization of existing capacities and increased efficiency in manage-
ment and production, on the importance of agriculture and training, and on
satisfying the basic material and social needs of the population, including
housing and education.
5.        Taking into account the improved financial prospects resulting from
increased hydrocarbon prices at the end of 1973, the objectives of the 1974-77
Plan were: (i) to increase the level of investment in order to speed up the
construction of the country's productive base and economic infrastructure and
the expansion of community and social services; (ii) to restructure the in-
vestment program in favor of non-industrial sectors and less developed regions
outside the coastal plains and Northern valleys, and (iii) to increase the
number of unskilled jobs and improve individual consumption levels and the
distribution of growth benefits. The Plan also called for vigorous imple-
mentation of the measures aimed at decentralizing and improving economic
management introduced by the Government since 1971.
6.        Several strong elements emerged from Algeria's economic performance
during the 1974-77 Plan. The growth of fixed investment averaged 15 percent
per year in real terms and its ratio to GDP at current prices rose to 48
percent of GDP in 1977 from 41 percent in 1973. While hydrocarbon production
was uneven during 1974-77, depending on technical and external market circum-
stances, GDP growth accelerated in the non-hydrocarbon sectors where it aver-
aged 8.5 percent per year. A high rate of national savings, averaging 39
percent of GDY (Gross Domestic Income), was achieved, and national savings
financed 84 percent of total investment. The marginal savings rate was 34
percent, thanks in large part to the sizeable improvement in the terms of
trade in 1974, which was only partly eroded thereafter. Employment creation
was substantial with more than half a million jobs created in industry and
services. Consumption growth is estimated to have averaged 9-10 percent per
annum, reflecting the increases in income levels, especially for the least
favored groups in rural and urban areas. Finally, Algeria's performance
concerning regional development has been impressive during the Plan (see
para. 11).



- 3 -
7.        Developments were not as positive in several areas.  The implementa-
tion of the Plan generated imbalances between the high level of investment and
Algeria's financial and human resources and in the distribution of investment
between industry and other sectors. This led to pressures on the external and
domestic financial situation, and increased development lags in non-industrial
sectors and other constraints on efficiency in industry. Such constraints
included in particular skilled manpower shortages, limited management capac-
ity, and insufficient intersectoral and intrasectoral coordination. The
external financial situation deteriorated in 1977, following an improvement in
1976; the current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion from $0.9 billion in
1976. Despite large disbursements on external loans, committed through 1977
mostly from commercial sources, net foreign reserves decreased by $300 million
to two months of 1977 imports. Despite the large surpluses on current opera-
tions (budgetary savings) resulting from oil revenues, the Treasury showed
large and growing overall deficits because of the considerable appropriations
for public enterprise investments and to cover their operating deficits. For
the same reasons, credit to the economy and money supply increased sharply,
especially in 1975 and 1976. The growth of Central Bank advances to the
Treasury remained limited, however, owing to the mobilization by the Treasury
of institutional savings of public agencies and its correspondent's current
surpluses.
8.        Decentralization of economic management has been pursued especially
in agriculture and industry. Agricultural units of the Socialist and Agrarian
Revolution Sectors are now responsible for their production and investment
plans, under the supervision of the local authorities and the agricultural
credit bank (BNA). These decentralization measures have begun to have a bene-
ficial impact on the output and financial results of these units. In industry,
most of the public enterprises are now under the "socialist management" system,
which should have in the long run a beneficial effect on efficiency since it
encourages decentralization of financial and technical management from the
enterprise level to the more manageable production unit. Decentralization of
the financial system, as well as decentralization in other sectors in general,
requires, however, revision of credit policy and financial management proce-
dures for which initial measures were taken under the 1976 and 1977 Finance
Laws. It also requires increased financial and accounting discipline in the
enterprises, and enough experienced staff to strengthen the banks, which will
be a difficult and slow process. Decentralization and strengthening of the
distribution (marketing) system, especially for agricultural products, still
call for important measures to be fully efficient.
9.        Social development during the Plan continued rapidly, in favor
especially of the most disadvantaged groups. Policy measures which contri-
bute to raising the living standards of those groups have included increases
in the guaranteed minimum wages, tax relief measures, increases in producer
prices for agricultural products and subsidization of basic commodities.
Further large salary increases (35 percent) were decided by the Government
in 1978. The disadvantaged groups have also benefited from the creation
of non-agricultural employment, implementation of the Agrarian Revolution,
multiplication of small- and medium-scale enterprises at the regional and
local levels, construction of public housing and rapid development of free



- 4 -
health care, education, training and other social services. Overall, Govern-
ment current and capital expenditure having a direct impact on social develop-
ment increased to 53 percent of total direct Government expenditure in 1977
from 44 percent in 1973.
10.       Bas&l on the 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population was 17.3
million at the end of 1977, and 1 million Algerians were living abroad, mainly
in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977 annual population growth was estimated at
3.2 percent, and the urban population increased from 33 percent to 40 percent
of total resident population. Some 58 percent of the population is now under
20 years old. Together with the high rates of urban growth (6 percent), this
factor is causing an extremely rapid growth in the demand for housing, social
services, urban facilities and employment. Despite the priority given to
modern and capital-intensive industries in the development strategy, employ-
ment creation has been impressive during 1974-77. Considerable efforts to
create employment will be needed, however, in coming years to cope with
existing unemployment and underemployment and absorb the additional labor
force. In agriculture, despite implementation of the Agrarian Revolution,
underemployment has remained very high, affecting some 50 percent of the
work force. This is due to the seasonal nature and the low productivity of
Algerian agriculture. The labor surplus in rural areas is being steadily
reduced by the large regional development programs and by rural/urban migra-
tion. The other problem facing Algeria is the acute shortage of skilled labor
in many sectors. This shortage is likely to persist for many years despite
the considerable training efforts which are pursued, often at very high cost,
and the steady returns of skilled workers from abroad.
11.       Algeria has been pursuing an active regional development policy
which aims at providing equal opportunity in education, employment and living
standards in all regions and thus limiting internal migration. Regional
decentralization of administrative, economic and financial responsibilities
is very advanced at the wilaya (province) and commune (municipality) levels
and is a major determinant of the country's regional development. In addi-
tion to the systematic location of large industrial investments in the
interior of the country under the national Plan, special programs for the
least favored wilayate, urban development (PMU) and commune development (PCD)
programs have been implemented since 1974 as part of the Four Year Plan to
build the economic and social infrastructure needed by secondary cities and
rural communes. At the end of the 1974-77 Plan, a total amount of DA 11 bil-
lion had been budgeted for projects under the PMU and PCD programs, represent-
ing 40 percent of Government direct investment and 10 percent of the country's
total fixed investment. The establishment of local enterprises (PMI) in con-
struction materials and other small-scale industries and in services has been
successful in creating employment, using local resources, and satisfying local
demand. Implementation of the regional programs suffered initial delays due
to insufficient capacity at the local level for the identification, prepara-
tion and execution of projects but has accelerated since 1976 in most of the
wilayate.



- 5 -
12.       The Government decided that 1978 and 1979 would be transitional
years devoted to the completion of projects initiated under the 1974-77 Plan;
the introduction of a new multi-annual plan was postponed. Based on prelim-
inary estimates, real GDP growth was about 9 percent in 1978, propelled by
further increases in non-hydrocarbon sector output and an acceleration in
hydrocarbon output growth (8.2 percent). Agricultural production benefitted
from better weather conditions which permitted somewhat larger cereal harvests
than in 1977. Although low capacity utilization continued to plague many
plants, relative improvements in operating levels of existing plants and
start-up of new plants allowed manufacturing growth to increase (about 12
percent). Reflecting large increases in investment, the construction and
public work sector continued to expand rapidly. Total hydrocarbon exports
increased by 8 percent in quantity, thanks to a recovery in refined product
output and large increases in liquified gas output following the start up of
LNG1 in Arzew. They increased, however, by 6.4 percent only in current value,
as Algerian oil prices diminished in the first half of 1978 because of an
unfavorable market situation for light petroleum. The continuing cause for
concern in 1978 was the size of the investment program and the consequences it
had on the country's financial situation and the imbalances between industry
and other sectors. Total public investment increased by 28 percent in current
terms in 1978. Public investment in industry alone increased by about 35
percent. The latter increase was due to a large extent to the investment
requirements of the hydrocarbon development plan; investment spending in
non-hydrocarbon industry, however, still increased some 15 percent in 1978.
13.       The large import requirements of the 1978 investment program caused
a further widening of the current account deficit to $3.5 billion, although
there was drawdown on stocks of capital goods accumulated in 1977 and strict
restrictions in other imports. Despite growing debt amortization obligations
($1 billion), net reserves at the end of 1978 were nonetheless estimated at
some $600 million above their 1977 level, equivalent to 2.4 months of 1978
imports. This was made possible by large drawings made before the end of the
year on the new loans contracted by Algeria in 1978 to finance its investment
program, especially for gas development. The new loan commitments (about
$4.9 billion) and disbursements ($5.1 billion) that Algeria made in 1978 in a
favorable international financial market, would have seemed excessive at that
time. Recent developments in world oil supply, however, have considerably
improved Algeria's export prospects and debt servicing capacity. On the
domestic side, because of the large investment appropriations from Treasury to
public enterprises ($6.3 billion), the overall Treasury financing needs from
the Central Bank more than doubled from $0.9 billion in 1977 to $2.3 billion
in 1978. Money supply increased by 28 percent in 1978, and bank credit to the
economy rose at the same rate. In addition, the large salary increases
effected during the year have exerted further pressures on domestic prices.
The consumer price index for the Algiers area increased by 17 percent in
1978.
14.       For 1979 the average price of Algerian crude oil was about 45 per-
cent above the average price for 1978. This brought substantial additional
financial resources estimated at $2.6 billion in 1979. The economic situation



- 6 -
has also benefitted from the increased emphasis put by the Government on
efficiency in management and production. The postponement of the new multi-
annual plan permitted the completion of projects and programs undertaken under
the Second Four-Year Plan. The 1979 Government budget and investment plan for
public enterprises provided for a timely slowdown in total capital expenditure
growth. While the emphasis on social sectors, economic infrastructure and
regional development continued, investment appropriations in industry were
restrained and mainly concerned on-going projects. With increased revenue
from the hydrocarbon sector and restraint on industrial investment the resource
gap was reduced to about $1.6 billion from $3.2 billion in 1978. The current
account deficit, despite growing interest payments on external debt, was
estimated at about $2 billion. External capital requirements were thus
substantially reduced in 1979. Because of a large increase in the Government
current account surplus the overall financing needs of the Treasury were also
substantially reduced in 1979. Domestic inflationary pressues which developed
in 1978 were eased.
15.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects beyond 1979 will be
reflected in the next Plan, which will cover the period 1980-84. The invest-
ment strategy is expected to be approved by a special congress of the National
Party (FLN) in the spring of 1980. While consonant with Algeria's long term
objectives, it is expected to mark a shift in investment priorities in favor
of social sectors, especially housing, agriculture and water development, and
to further emphasize education and training, economic infrastructure and
regional development. In contrast, investment in non-hydrocarbon industry
will probably be moderated and more strictly allocated, in order to complete
ongoing projects, to achieve forward and backward linkages with existing
industries, and to improve utilization of existing capacities. It should,
in addition, be adjusted more closely to the rates of development in non-
industrial sectors and to the availability of financial and human resources.
The next Plan will probably also give special attention to measures and
programs aimed at improving economic and financial management, eliminating
sectoral deficiencies and bottlenecks and, generally, raising the efficiency
of the economic system. Algeria will continue to count on external technical
assistance in its efforts to relieve existing constraints on efficiency.
16.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects depend on three main
factors: the growth in the value of hydrocarbon exports; the level and
composition of the country's investment; and the pace of improvement in the
efficiency of the economic system. Based on a careful assessment of these
factors, Bank staff projections (see Annex 1) show that a relatively rapid
economic growth in all sectors (about 8 percent yearly) can be maintained
during 1980-84. The growth of gross domestic income, which incorporates
the effect of terms of trade changes, should be above 9 percent during that
period because of the expected rise in both the real price and the relative
importance of gas. During 1985-1989, GDP growth would remain high in non-
hydrocarbon sectors, while it would decelerate in the hydrocarbon sector.
The resource gap is projected to turn into a significant surplus by 1982 when
the large condensate and gas projects, presently underway or planned, begin to
generate increasing export revenues. Commercial loans and credits with short



- 7 -
maturities in relation to the gestation periods of investments will, however,
induce rapidly increasing debt repayment obligations. The country thus faces
borrowing requirements well into the 1980s.
17.       Based on the above projections, during 1980-84 external borrowing
requirements are projected to average about $3 billion annually in terms
of commitments. The projected commitments are large but would be within
Algeria's debt-carrying capacity, which has been considerably strengthened by
the recent oil price increases. In terms of access to external sources of
financing, these amounts appear manageable since the gas contracts into which
Algeria has entered provide for partial financing of gas treatment and lique-
faction plants, and suppliers' credits should be available to finance other
industrial investments, most of which will probably be implemented by foreign
contractors. Borrowing from official sources would remain relatively small.
These include the African Development Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC;
Algeria signed a financial and trade agreement with the EEC in April 1976.
18.       The projections in Annex I are based on a crude oil price remaining
constant in real terms beyond 1980 at the level of $23.5 per barrel set by
Algeria in July 1979. Algeria has further increased its oil price to $26.3
per barrel in November 1979 and, reportedly, to $30 in January 1980 following
the recent OPEC meeting. If the projected hydrocarbon export volumes in the
1980's are maintained, and all other assumptions in the projection remain the
same, Algeria's external capital requirements and debt service ratio would be
substantially reduced after 1980. However, there are indications that, in
view of the level now reached by hydrocarbon prices, a new policy for con-
servation of hydrocarbon resources may be favored by Algeria. The new approach
would be to determine the optimal level of investment in view of the country's
requirements and absorptive capacity and simultaneously to project the appro-
priate levels of hydrocarbon exports and external borrowing for balancing
financing needs while maintaining the debt burden at approximately its current
level. These variables are expected to be established in the Final Plan
document. Thus, despite the rise in hydrocarbon prices, the financial outlook
for the 1980's should not diverge significantly from the foregoing projections.
19.       At the end of 1977, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed amounted at $8.2 billion ($13.8 billion including undisbursed),
equivalent to about 42 percent of GDP. It was estimated at $12.2 billion, or
50 percent of GDP, at the end of 1978. The debt service ratio increased from
16 percent in 1976, to 18 percent in 1977, and about 24 percent in 1978. It
decreased to an estimated 21.5 percent in 1979 and, based on past and projected
borrowings, it should remain at that level until 1982. Thereafter debt
service should decline rapidly in relation to exports when the large conden-
sate and gas projects come on stream. Bank lending, past and projected,
represents only a small fraction of the country's external financing require-
ments. At the end of 1978, the portion of Algeria's total debt outstanding
and disbursed owed to the Bank was estimated at 1.7 percent; this share would
rise over the next years, to some 7 percent by 1984. Algeria's external bor-
rowing needs will remain large in the next few years, but can be accommodated
in view of the considerably enhanced capacity to carry debt which the country



- 8 -
has acquired as a result of the new relationship between the prices of hydro-
carbons and other commodities in world markets, the long-term prospects for
gas exports, and general economic performance. Algeria is creditworthy for
continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
20.       After an interval of about nine years, lending to Algeria resumed
in FY1973. Since then, nineteen loans have been approved, totalling $913
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of November
30, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. While the physical
execution of most projects is progressing well, disbursements for some loans
have been slow due largely to administrative delays. This is particularly
the case for the loan to the Algerian Development Bank (BAD), the technical
assistance loan for rural development, the third loan for education and the
loan for the port of Jijel. Slow progress in improving institutional arrange-
ments, an important objective of the project, has hampered disbursements of
the loan to BAD. The rural development project has suffered from delays in
selection of consultants. Both projects are now advancing satisfactorily
and disbursements are picking up. Delays in awarding the main construction
contract are the cause for slow disbursements under the third education
loan. As for the Jijel port project, the Government has informed the Bank
that it is reassessing the need for a previously planned adjacent steel
complex, in the context of the preparation of the next five-year plan (1980-
1985). Reappraisal of the project may be necessary if there is any departure
from initial plans.
21.       The provision of technical assistance and institution-building
support, to which the Government attaches special importance, is a major
objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria. The aim is to assist the
Government in improving economic and sector management, project preparation,
implementation and financial management. Economic efficiency and financial
management have been prominent in our economic dialogue with the Government.
At its request, we are engaged in a study of enterprise financing and the role
of the banking system. Previous projects have included technical assistance
to enhance the financial system's appraisal capability and improve auditing of
national companies. A technical assistance loan for rural development was
made in FY1975, and is expected to help the Government define its strategy in
several agricultural subsectors and prepare specific projects. The SN Metal
technical assistance project, approved last November, addresses itself to an
area which constitutes one of the most serious problems affecting economic
growth in Algeria: the difficulty in starting up new plants and reaching
satisfactory capacity utilization because of the shortage of the necessary
management skills and industrial experience. One of the major components of
the Algiers Sewerage Project was the creation of a water supply and sewerage
authority for Greater Algiers, SEDAL, and the provision of substantial
technical assistance for its management and operations. Finally, the Bank
has acted as Executing Agency for several UNDP financed technical assistance
projects, including an Agricultural Sector Planning project.



- 9 -
22.       The proposed project would assist in the rehabilitation of irriga-
tion infrastructure in the Bas Cheliff district and includes measures to
strengthen maintenance and improve the operation of the district. Studies
are included to prepare two follow-up projects in the Cheliff basin which
would focus on improving irrigated agricultural development, reclaiming some
10,000 ha equipped for irrigation but lost to salinity, and extending the
area under irrigation.
23.       Bank lending since 1973 has mainly aimed at relieving developmental
bottlenecks in lagging sectors, with the main emphasis on support in education
and infrastructure. Lending for education (4 projects so far) has accounted
for about 21 percent of Bank commitments in Algeria, and was mainly focused
on meeting the urgent demand for technical skills. Loans for transportation
(highways, railways, ports), contributing to the country's economic integra-
tion and regional development objectives, accounted for about 42 percent of
total Bank lending, and two loans for power, for about 10 percent. In indus-
try, three projects (including a loan to the Algerian Development Bank, BAD)
represent about 12 percent, and in agriculture two projects (including the
technical assistance loan for rural development) account for 6 percent of
total Bank lending. Finally, two projects in the water supply and sewerage
sector account for 9 percent.
24.       Bank lending activity in Algeria has been recently extending to
areas and sectors which had previously received limited Bank assistance.
Under the first sewerage project, which was approved last year, studies are
being financed to prepare water supply and sewerage projects in two major
Algerian cities, and the recently approved loan for a Water Supply Engineering
Project would do the same for Algiers. Further to the loan to ONAB (Meat
Industry Project) approved late last fiscal year, an integrated agricultural
development project in Sidi Bel Abbes is being prepared with the assistance of
the FAO/CP Cooperative Program. Finally, project preparation is underway for
a first Urban Development Project in Annaba, one of the cities where Algeria's
acute housing shortage is most pronounced.
25.       In the remainder of this fiscal year we expect to submit to the
Executive Directors a Fifth education project and a project for telecommunica-
tions. Projects planned for subsequent years include agriculture and rural
development, education, water supply/sewerage, industry, highways, regional
and urban development. This lending program, by stressing objectives going
beyond the simple transfer of resources, responds to Algeria's efforts for
rapid socio-economic development and needs for technical assistance.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
The Agricultural Sector
26.       Agriculture in Algeria is constrained by difficult climatic and
topographical conditions, and about 80 percent of the total land area is
unproductive. Generally, the richest agricultural areas are located in a



- 10 -
narrow band in the north, where annual rainfall (500-1,000 mm) permits grow-
ing fruits, vegetables, industrial crops and high yield wheat varieties, and
where the amount of fallow land is lowest. Areas in the 300-500 mm rainfall
zone, located between the Northern zone and the Steppe, depend on a rotation
of cereals and fallow. Further south in the Steppe on the High Plateau the
population-is almost entirely dependent on sheep and goat production. Over-
all, forest and alfa grass cover about 4 percent of the land area, pasture
land used for grazing of livestock about 13 percent, and cultivable land about
3 percent. Of the roughly 8 million ha of cultivable land, 5 million ha were
utilized in 1976 and the balance left fallow. The cropping pattern included
43 percent winter cereals (wheat, barley, rye), 41 percent fallow, 5 percent
fruit trees, 4 percent forage crops, 3 percent vineyards, 2 percent vege-
tables, 1 percent pulses and the balance under industrial and other crops.
In 1977, despite its relatively narrow resource base, agriculture employed
some 35 percent of Algeria's total active population of about 3.8 million; 60
percent of Algeria's 17.3 million people lived in rural areas.
27.       Sector Strategy.  After independence in 1962 major structural
reforms were undertaken in the agricultural sector and there was a shift from
the export orientation developed during the colonial period to a policy of
meeting domestic food requirements. However, in assigning paramount impor-
tance to achieving structural reforms such as establishing self-managed farms,
"Offices" and the cooperatives of the Agrarian Revolution, which are discussed
in the following paragraphs, insufficient emphasis was given to agricultural
incentives and productivity, and the role of the private sector was not
addressed.
28.       The Self-Managed Farms.  Just before independence, about 20,000
properties on 2.4 million ha were owned by Europeans. There were some 630,000
Algerian properties covering about 7 million ha (including pastureland).
Average property size was 124 ha and 11 ha respectively. European-owned farms
were found on the better land with the highest rainfall. Most of the European
landowners left the country in 1962, and management of their farms was taken
over by the farm workers. Their land was nationalized in 1963 and the right
to use it in perpetuity was given to the workers grouped into large worker
"self-managed" farms. The European properties were in most cases consolidated
so that about 2,000 self-managed farms were created on about 2.1 million ha
of cultivable land, constituting the socialist sector. About 180,000 permanen
workers are presently employed on these mechanized farms. A manager has been
appointed by Government to each self-managed farm in order to provide technical
assistance. The self-managed farms are only partly autonomous and implement
the investment plans derived from a centralized planning process previously
emanating from the Central Government, but recently decentralized considerably
to the provincial level.
29.       Cooperatives of the Agrarian Revolution and Private Sector.  Further
structural changes took place in the 1970's. The first was the "Agrarian
Revolution" in which state and communal land, as well as land expropriated
from absentee landowners and from the largest private farmers was distributed
to landless peasants. Most beneficiaries were organized into production



- 11 -
cooperatives. By 1978, about 7,000 cooperatives had been created, allotting
one million ha, including 120,000 ha of pastureland, to 100,000 beneficiary
families. These Agrarian Revolution Cooperatives and the 2,000 self-managed
farms of the socialist sector hold a total of about 3 million ha of cultivable
land. The remaining 4.8 million ha of cultivable land belongs to the private
sector and supports about 700,000 families. Private livestock owners and
farmers also exploit approximately 31 million ha of arid pastureland, primarily
in the Steppe region.
30.       Marketing and Credit.  A major structural change begun in the 1960's
was the creation of Government owned marketing and input supply "Offices",
each specializing in a product or group of products. Prices for produce are
established nationally by official decree at each harvest season, although
provincial committees have been established to review and change prices, if
warranted, in relation to regional conditions. While socialist sector farmers
are required to market their produce through the official Offices, private
farmers usually sell their produce on a more remunerative parallel free market,
resorting only to Government channels when official prices are more favorable.
Many state farms also avail themselves of non-official channels to market
their output. The Offices have required several years to organize, and in
many cases have not provided adequate service. Agricultural marketing and
input supply cooperatives (CAPCS) were established during the 1970's to bring
the marketing and input supply functions closer to the farms. Managed by
staff appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Revolution (MARA),
the CAPCS mostly serve as intermediaries between the farms and the Offices,
selling to farms inputs supplied by the Offices, and marketing the farms'
agricultural output to the Offices, primarily grain, fruits, vegetables and
fodder. By 1977, CAPCS had been established in 654 of Algeria's 703 communes.
Another structural change involved the consolidation of the local assets of
the European dominated banking system into the Government owned "Banque
Nationale d'Algerie" (BNA) and other nationalized banks. However, credit
allocated to private agriculture was reduced to low levels, contributing to
the lack of replacement of equipment during the 1960's.
31.       Planning and Management.  During the 1960's agricultural planning was
weak, principally due to manpower shortages, but it became more organized with
the beginning of the first Four Year Plan (1970-1973). There has now been a
partial decentralization of the planning process from the Central Government
to the Wilaya (provincial) level, and the creation of national institutes for
crop and livestock development which undertake applied research, demonstration
and extension. For agriculture, decentralization has meant since 1975 in-
creased responsibility for planning by MARA staff in provincial headquarters,
assisted by the institutes, and increased autonomy at the farm level for man-
agement and production. Goals for agriculture under the Second Plan, which
are likely to apply for the Third Plan, include: (i) continuation of the
shift in production out of food exports toward food self-sufficiency; (ii)
diversification of crop production; (iii) improvement of rural revenue, rural
infrastructure, and development of rural employment opportunities; (iv)
improvement of agricultural marketing and input supply; and (c) relative
improvement in the condition of the poorest groups in the rural sector. The
Third Plan is likely to put greater emphasis on decentralization of planning
and project execution and on development of the private agricultural sector
which has been neglected.



- 12 -
32.       Sector Performance.  Performance of agriculture has remained poor:
yields of principal crops have shown little or no improvement over the past
fifteen years. The sector fell short of its investment targets in both the
First and the Second Plans, and the share of agriculture in GDP declined from
10 percent during the First Plan (1970-1973) to 7 percent during the Second
Plan (1974-197'). This decline was due partly to the stagnation of agricul-
tural output aild partly to the rising share of the hydrocarbon sector in GDP,
following the oil price increase in 1974. Permanent and seasonal employment
in agriculture rose by 1.6 percent and 0.3 percent p.a., respectively, during
the Second Plan, when employment in non-agricultural sectors was growing by
6.8 percent p.a. While unemployment in these sectors fell from 17 to about 10
percent, under-employment in agriculture affected about 25 percent of the
labor force in the self-managed sector and about 50 percent of the total
agricultural work force. Rural migration is very high: with national popula-
tion growing at a rate of 3.2 percent, urban population growth stands at 6.8
percent, and that of rural population at about 2.0 percent p.a. Furthermore,
from a surplus in the early 1960's, the agricultural balance of trade has
turned into a deficit, claiming increasing shares of total imports (17% during
the Second Plan), as production failed to keep pace with population growth
and higher standards of living. Finally, despite the creation of the semi-
autonomous Offices and the commune-level CAPCS, input distribution to farmers
and marketing of farm products remain highly inefficient.
33.       Main Sector Issues.  The structural reforms leading to the estab-
lishment of the socialist and Agrarian Revolution sectors and government
supporting services have been largely completed. The central issue now is
how to make the sector more productive. The orientation towards agricultural
exports (chiefly wine) has been dropped, with few gains in import substitu-
tion. If agricultural growth is to be accelerated, two basic requirements
need to be met. First, adequate incentives should be created, especially
through pricing and marketing mechanisms and second, more resources (invest-
ment and human) should be devoted to the sector, particularly to private
farmers who own 62 percent of the cultivable land. At the farm level the
self-managed farms and Agrarian Revolution Cooperatives need to be given
greater autonomy in financial decisions as well as greater responsibility for
repayment of credit obligations, in order to increase their incentive to make
efficient use of investments. Also, increased production incentives should be
provided to workers.
34.       Over-centralization of Government supporting services still remains
a serious problem, as is the lack of coordination between departments within
MARA. It is possible to resolve these problems through (i) investment and
program coordination in regionally integrated projects and (ii) more decen-
tralization of decision making to the level of the enterprise, farm and
commune. The major constraint to implementing such measures, however, is the
availability of qualified personnel. Crop and livestock research need to be
integrated and an agricultural extension service created which should assist
all farmers, including those in the private sector. The major marketing
issues include the need to give the private sector access to modern inputs and
commodity marketing structures, and to reduce scarcities of farm inputs and
of agricultural commodities. Solutions involve expansion of the role and



- 13 -
the facilities of the commune-level input supply and marketing cooperatives
(CAPCS), and reorganization of the marketing Offices along market oriented as
opposed to administrative lines. The allocation of agricultural credit should
be decentralized to bank outlets at the commune level.
35.       Bank Role.  The $8 million Bank Technical Assistance Loan of 1975 is
aiding Government in the formulation of extension methods and their implementa-
tion in the Sidi Bel Abbes region, in developing appropriate national agricul-
tural credit policies, and in the preparation of rural development projects in
the Hauts Plateaux and Steppe areas. Initial delays in project start-up are
now being made up and project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. In
the UNDP financed Agricultural Sector Planning Project for which the Bank is
executing agency, an attempt is made to provide Algeria with adequate planning
and sector monitoring capability. Furthermore, in full cooperation with the
Government, the Bank has recently prepared an Agricultural Sector Survey based
on the findings of missions which visited Algeria in late 1977 and early 1978.
The report (No. 2203-AL ) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
October 26, 1979. The views expressed in the report, some of which are
summarized above, have found substantial agreement among policy-makers in the
sector. These missions also identified a number of agricultural projects for
possible Bank financing, of which one is the present project. The $42 million
meat industry project approved in FY79 focuses on ensuring an adequate meat
supply in Algeria through long-term measures to increase domestic production
and fattening and by providing the National Office for Livestock Feed (ONAB)
with increased capacity to import, process and distribute meat. An agricul-
ture development project, which is expected to address some of the policy
issues in the sector, is under preparation in the Sidi Bel Abbes region.
Projects are foreseen in later years for fisheries and rural/regional develop-
ment. The proposed project is the Bank's first in Algeria in the irrigation
subsector.
The Irrigation Subsector
36.       The limited water resources and their unfavorable distribution over
cultivable land represent the greatest physical constraints to food self-
sufficiency in Algeria. The Atlas mountains cause rain-fall to occur mainly
in the relatively narrow coastal plains in the North, and many small rivers
carry the runoff over a short distance to the Mediterranean. There are almost
280,000 ha under controlled irrigation, of which nearly three-quarters is in
the North. The remaining 25 percent is in the desert and is used almost
exclusively for date palm cultivation. There are an additional 185,000 ha
which are irrigated by flood water spreading. Of the total 8 million ha of
cultivable land, only six percent is irrigated and only 3.5 percent is under
controlled irrigation. These figures are particularly revealing if account is
taken of the fact that the low rainfall in most of the area prohibits summer
cropping in the absence of irrigation infrastructure.  However, because of the
country's topography and the distribution of water resources, the development
of large irrigated schemes is difficult and costly, often requiring construc-
tion of dams and unusually long structures to transfer water.



- 14
37.        In 1977, the former Secretariat for Hydraulics, which was respon-
sible for the construction and maintenance of Algeria's irrigation network,
became the Ministry of Hydraulics. This Ministry has assumed responsibility
for water resource management in the country. The Service of Large Irrigation
Districts in that Ministry is responsible for the management of irrigation
schemes in excess of about 1,000 ha. The Ministry has regional offices or
divisions in each province (Wilaya), which are further broken doua into sub-
divisions which are responsible for the day-to-day management and operation of
individual irrigation districts. Smaller hydraulic schemes (under 1,000 ha),
once they are constructed by the Ministry, fall under the direct responsibility
of local authorities. The operating budgets of irrigation districts are
prepared at the subdivision level and submitted annually through the Wilaya to
the Ministry, which approves and allocates funds. The Ministry in Algiers
must likewise approve all major contracts before they are let.
38.        The subdivision also formulates cropping patterns which are sub-
mitted for approval to the provincial delegate of the Ministry of Agriculture
who, in collaboration with the management of the state and cooperative farms,
determines the final cropping pattern and water requirements. Priority in
water distribution is given to the socialist sector farms and whatever water
is available beyond these requirements can be used by the private sector.
Water charges in irrigation districts are set by the Ministry and are reviewed
periodically. During the most recent review in 1979 the rate on volumetric
charge was increased by 50 percent in the Bas Cheliff district and that on
fixed charge by 43 percent. Levels and types of charges vary by district and
are related to existing irrigation facilities and operating costs. Water
charges in small irrigation areas are determined locally in relation to
operating costs.
39.        The National Charter, which sets out Algeria's long-term development
strategy, projects construction of irrigation infrastructure on an additional
800,000 ha over the next 20 years, or an average of 40,000 ha per year
equipped. This would require the provision of some 6 billion m3 of water by
the year 2000 to meet projected agricultural, industrial and potable demand.
Between 1974 and 1977, about 37,000 ha were equipped for irrigation in large
districts, or 41 percent of the planned 90,000 ha. A further 22,000 ha of
small schemes were completed, of which about half consisted of rehabilitation
of existing schemes. The Third Plan is expected to provide for the construc-
tion of 49,000 ha for large districts and 21,000 ha of small schemes. While
the proposed investment program of the Ministry of Hydraulics for improving
and expanding the irrigation network appears realistic, the full productive
potential for existing and proposed infrastructure will only be realized in
conjunction with an irrigated agriculture development program which would
focus on the full use of available resources and the development of cropping
patterns consistent with the type of irrigation infrastructure to be intro-
duced.
40.        The irrigation subsector has for many years received insufficient
priority. During the First and Second Development Plans (1970-77), the lack
of irrigation development was the most conspicuous shortfall in the agricul-
tural sector. Mobilization of new water resources has been largely inadequate



- 15 -
with resulting serious under-utilization of available infrastructure. Less
than half the area equipped with hydraulic infrastructure is actually irrigated
in the large districts. One of the main issues in the subsector is the lack
of coordination at the planning stage between the Ministries of Hydraulics
and of Agriculture and Agrarian Revolution (MARA). Land consolidation is
often not carried out in new irrigation districts and conveyance systems are
designed on the basis of cropping patterns different from those of MARA. In
addition, there is no national irrigated agriculture production plan and no
national water code to regulate water use. Finally, the management and opera-
tion of large irrigation districts suffer from lack of qualified technical
personnel.
41.        The Bank's strategy for and role in the irrigation subsector focuses
on assisting the Government to: (i) rehabilitate rundown irrigation infra-
structure, mobilize additional water resources where hydraulic infrastructure
exists and reclaim land lost to production because of salinity or drainage
problems; (ii) select cropping patterns for irrigated land emphasizing the
development of high return crops such as fruits, vegetables and modern dairy
farming; and (iii) strengthen the management of irrigation districts, reduce
water losses through modernization of equipment and increase utilization of
groundwater resources. In addition, the development of small-scale irrigation
schemes would maximize economies of scale and would permit risk spreading.
The proposed project would emphasize rehabilitation of irrigation infrastruc-
ture and strengthening of the operation and maintenance activities of one
large irrigation district, the Bas Cheliff. Studies are included under the
project for the second- and third-stage projects which could focus on improve-
ments in irrigated agricultural production, the mobilization of further water
resources, and the economic analysis of proposed investments to expand the
area under irrigation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.        The investments foreseen under the proposed project are designed
to provide the most urgently needed civil works to ensure continued production
on some 4,000 ha in the Bas Cheliff irrigation district, and to prepare for
expansion of the area under irrigation in the district. The proposed project
was identified by a Bank mission in October 1977 and prepared by consultants
and further Bank missions. The project was appraised in May/June 1979. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in November 1979 and final agreement was
reached in early February. The Algerian delegation was headed by Mr. Lamoudi
of the Ministry of Finance. A report entitled "Algeria, Staff Appraisal Report
of the Bas Cheliff I Irrigation Project", (No. 2678a-AL) dated January 15,
1979 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and
Project Summary is provided in the beginning of this report; a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet, Annex III and maps showing the location of project works
are also attached.



- 16 -
The Cheliff Basin
43.        The Cheliff basin parallels the Northern Algerian coast about 30 km
inland and extends for about 200 km along the Cheliff river, roughly between
the cities of Algiers and Mostaganem (see map). The large alluvial plains and
water resource-, make this valley one of the best suited for irrigated agricul-
ture in the country. The catchment area covers some 44,000 km2 and the valley
proper is divided into three districts, the Haut, Moyen and Bas Cheliff.
Irrigation water for the three districts is stored in the Ghrib (Haut Cheliff)
and Fodda (Moyen Cheliff) reservoirs. Works projected over the next five
years would permit an increase of regulated flow in the basin from 160 Mm3 per
year to some 277 Mm3; future development could allow the regulation of about
600 Mm3 by the year 2000. Some 21,000 ha are irrigated regularly at present
in the three districts, and Government plans are to extend this area to about
67,000 ha, consistent with the projected increase in water flow. A study
included in the project would determine the optimal sequence of water mobil-
ization investments required.
Project Area: The Bas Cheliff
44.        The total area equipped in various degrees for irrigation in the Bas
Cheliff is some 22,000 ha. However, less than one-third of that area is
covered by adequate infrastructure. In addition, irrigation development in
the upstream districts and siltation in the two reservoirs has gradually
reduced the availability of water to the Bas Cheliff in summer so that less
than 20 percent of the area covered by the irrigation network, or only about
4,000 ha, is irrigated annually. A third reservoir, the 50 Mm3 Merdja Sidi
Abed, is currently under construction for the Bas Cheliff and would ensure a
greater water supply.
45.        Soils in the district range from light, non-saline along the flanks
of the valley to heavy clay in the center along the Cheliff river which also
tend to be saline because of lack of drainage. Land tenure in the district
consists of about 60 percent state farms, 15 percent Agrarian Reform Coopera-
tives and 25 percent private farms. The present cropping pattern consists
mainly of orchards (olives, oranges and apricots), vegetables and fruit,
particularly melons. Because of the profitability of melon and watermelon
cultivation, and often because of the lack of a functioning tertiary irriga-
tion infrastructure, many private farmers have begun to use small motor pumps
to extract water from the river or irrigation canals to extend their areas.
Frequently, these extractions are made without payment of water charges. The
total area irrigated in this manner in the Cheliff valley is estimated at
about 4,000 ha. Efforts are made to integrate these areas into the districts.
46.        In the Bas Cheliff district crop yields on state farms are some 60
to 80 percent of those obtained on private farms and the profitability of
state farms is considerably lower than that of the private sector. This
disparity is due largely to the higher proportion on state farms of low
profit crops and lower prices for comparable produce. There is no organized
extension service in the district although MARA staff are available at the
local level for consultation. The unemployment rate in the area is about
12 percent and underemployment is widespread and chronic.



- 17 -
Objectives and Description
47.       The proposed project is the first of an eventual three-stage effort
to assist the Government in rehabilitating irrigation infrastructure badly
damaged because of age and inadequate maintenance, rationalizing irrigated
agriculture in the Bas Cheliff district, and extending the area under irriga-
tion in the Cheliff basin. The project would address the most urgent problems
in the district while providing for the preparation of a series of studies
to prepare the two next stages. The second- and third-stage projects are
expected to comprise (i) improvements in the irrigated agricultural production
and the reclamation of some 10,000 ha in the district rendered useless because
of high salinity, and (ii) extension of the irrigated area in the Cheliff
basin.  Existing irrigation structures in the Bas Cheliff have deteriorated to
a point where proper operation is no longer possible. Their breakdown, which
in many instances is dangerously advanced, would result in the immediate loss
of irrigated production on some 4,000 ha. Repair of existing infrastructure
is also needed to ensure the proper functioning of the Merdja Sidi Abed ground
storage reservoir currently under construction. Finally, the project would
also help improve operation and maintenance activities in the district through
the purchase of transport and maintenance equipment.
48.       The project would consist of:  (i) the repair of the diversion weir,
about seven km of the main and primary irrigation canals, three gates in
the main canal, two pumping stations and the Oued Rhiou aqueduct; (ii) the
replacement of six gates on the diversion weir, some 900 m of the primary
canal, several sluice and automatic gates in the main and primary canals,
equipment in five pumping stations including provision of a power supply line
to one pumping station, and some 260 m of aqueducts; (iii) purchase of main-
tenance and transport equipment; and (iv) provision of technical assistance
and studies.
49.       About 170 man-months of consultants would be provided under the
project for (i) construction supervision of project works; (ii) continuation
of the leaching tests started during project preparation; (iii) preparation
of the second-stage project works, including studies on the improvement of
irrigated agriculture production in the area, engineering studies for land
reclamation, a study on pollution; and (iv) preparation of the third stage
with a detailed hydrological model of water availability and requirements in
the entire Cheliff basin with an economic analysis of the construction
schedule of various dams.
Project Implementation and Management
50.       Construction of project works would begin in 1980 and be completed
in 1982.  The Ministry of Hydraulics would be responsible for overall imple-
mentation of the project. The regional authority of the Ministry is the
Division of Hydraulics in the Wilaya of Mostaganem. The project would be
carried out at the level of the Bas Cheliff Subdivision, which is respon-
sible for the operation and management of the Bas Cheliff irrigation district
and which reports to the division of the Wilaya. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Subdivision would operate under qualified



- 18 -
management and that the Bank would be informed of any managerial appointment
to be made (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). The national power company,
SONELGAZ, would be responsible for the construction of a power supply line.
51.       Most major decisions concerning the operation and management of
irrigation districts are taken at the ministerial level. However, the Bas
Cheliff Subdivision will be granted sufficient autonomy and wili receive, as
and when needed, sufficient funds to carry out routine operations relating to
the operation and maintenance of the irrigation network (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.03). The Bank will also receive an annual project account, an
annual financial report on the operation and maintenance of the Bas Cheliff
district showing sources of receipts and itemized expenditures and progress
reports at regular intervals (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.04 and 4.02).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
52.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $13.3 million.
Physical contingencies are calculated at 15 percent of the estimated cost of
civil works and at 10 percent for all other components. Price contingencies
are based on a compounded price escalation rate of 12 percent annually over
the period of implementation, reflecting the projected rate of inflation in
Algeria and abroad. Physical contingencies represent 12 percent of base
cost and price contingencies represent 21 percent of base cost plus physical
contingencies. The cost of consultant services is estimated at an average
man-month cost of $10,000, including the man-month rate, international travel
and subsistence. This is somewhat higher than the estimates for other recent
Bank projects and is due to the difficult living conditions in rural Oued
Rhiou where the consultants will be working. The proposed Bank loan of $8
million, representing 60 percent of total project cost, would finance the
foreign exchange cost of the project. The balance of $5.3 million would be
financed by Government. Taxes amounting to about $1.4 million are included
in the local cost component. All necessary budgetary funds will be made
available for the proposed project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01).
Procurement and Disbursements
53.       Civil works and equipment contracts in excess of respectively
$200,000 and $50,000 each, would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. In
the evaluation of bids for equipment procured under ICB, local manufacturers
would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs
duty applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of the c.i.f. price, which-
ever is lower. Civil works contracts of less than $200,000, and not exceeding
$500,000 in the aggregate would be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts for equipment and
vehicles of less than $50,000 each, for a total of at most $0.7 million,
would be procured by seeking quotations from at least three suppliers. For
standardization purposes, one heavy dump truck and one motorgrader, for a



- 19 -
total of at most $200,000, may be purchased under negotiated contracts. Con-
tracts for civil works and goods financed under the project would be grouped
to the extent practicable. Civil works for the power connection, amounting to
$80,000, would be awarded to the national power authority, SONELGAZ, on the
basis of a negotiated contract. Consultant services for about S3.2 million
would be procured on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Advertis-
ing for bids for all project works took place in late 1979, and award of bids
is expected in early 1980.
54.       To ensure that the main canal and diversion weir are repaired before
the reservoir is filled, advance contracting for these works was necessary.
Consultant services to continue leaching tests should likewise be obtained as
soon as possible. Retroactive financing is recommended for a portion of these
contracts in an amount not to exceed $130,000 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
para. 4).
Operation and Maintenance
55.       Operation of the Bas Cheliff Subdivision is at present seriously
hampered by the lack of adequate equipment for maintenance and transportation.
The most urgent equipment needs will be met by the purchase under the project
of six trucks, three excavators, one grader, one forklift truck, eight cars
and forty motorcycles. The provision of this equipment, which would add about
$300,000 to the Subdivision's annual operating budget of approximately $1 mil-
lion, is expected to substantially increase efficiency.
Cost Recovery
56.        In the Bas Cheliff district water charges are based on either a
minimum irrigated land tax of DA 148/ha, or the combination of a fixed annual
levy of DA 100/1/sec on the hydraulic capacity of the farm turnout gate plus
a volumetric charge of DA 0.08/m3, whichever is greater. There are currently
no delays in collection of water charges. Minimum receipts in 1979 are
expected to be just under $1 million. When the Merdja reservoir is completed
in 1981 an extension of the irrigated area by at least 2,000 ha is proiected,
which would result in receipts by end 1982 of between $1.4 million and $1.7
million, slightly more than the $1.3 million projected O&M costs in the same
year. The cost recovery index for the project, which also takes into account
revenues from taxation on irrigated farms, would be 74 percent computed on net
present values discounted at 10 percent over 35 years. When determining the
level of water charges and of taxation on irrigated farming, Government policy
is to take into account operating and maintenance costs of irrigation works
and their capital costs, incentives to be provided in the agricultural sector
and the farmers' ability to pay.
Benefits and Risks
57.       The project works are the least cost solution to prevent the loss of
irrigated production of orchard crops, fruits and vegetables on some 4,000 ha,
and to provide the staff of the subdivision with the necessary means to ade-
quately carry out their role and improve the district's effectiveness. The



- 20 -
value of agricultural production in the Bas Cheliff in future without the
project, that is under rainfed conditions, would be less than 10 percent of
the current value. Net income would be reduced even more. The total number
of beneficiaries is estimated at about 18,500. These would include 800 pri-
vate farmers and 800 associated laborers working on an average plot of 1.3 ha
under irrigation, and about 1,250 state farm workers. Private farmer incomes
without the pioject would fall from about $10,000 to less than $1,800 per
farm per year, reducing the average per capita income to $135, well below the
absolute rural poverty level roughly estimated at $200. State farm earnings
would drop by over 90 percent and some 170,000 man/days per year, mostly
seasonal labor, would be forfeited.
58.       The economic rate of return is computed on the basis of the net
value of damages avoided due to the project works, or the net benefit of irri-
gated production minus the net benefit of rainfed production, both assumed
at a constant value over the life of the project. Efficiency prices have been
computed using a shadow exchange rate 20 percent above the official rate for
the Algerian dinar. Shadow wage rates were also applied including an oppor-
tunity cost for unskilled labor of 30 percent of the daily wage because of the
high endemic underemployment of unskilled labor in the area. The cost of the
maintenance equipment provided under the project is included in total invest-
ment; water charges are included in agricultural production costs. In
computing the economic rate of return, it was assumed that: (i) the project
will only begin to generate benefits in the year it is assumed the structures
would have collapsed if the project had not been undertaken; and (ii) there is
near certainty that the major structures, without the project, would collapse
within 5 years. There is a risk, unrelated to project implementation, that the
structures will collapse before project works are completed in three years but
this risk is reduced after the second year. It is also assumed that were the
structures to collapse, the water currently used to irrigate the Bas Cheliff
would be used instead in the Moyen Cheliff, where there are water shortages,
resulting in a 15 percent increase in yields in that district with no increase
in production costs. Based on these assumptions, the rate of return discounted
over 35 years has an expected value of 73 percent. Were no structures to
collapse before 1987 in the absence of the project, the rate of return would
still be 27 percent. A sensitivity analysis based on extremely conservative
estimates for efficiency prices of agricultural output resulted in a reduction
of the rate of return from 73 to 52 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted separately to the Executive Directors.
60.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for irriga-
tion rehabilitation projects. The principal features of the Loan Agreement
referred to in the text are listed in Section III of Annex III. There are no
special conditions of effectiveness.



- 21 -
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                             ANNEX 1
page 1 of 6
ALGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEE?
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
L"IM AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                 ALGERIA                       - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           2381.7                                                 SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
A;R:CL:uRAL     455.6                                MOST RECENT     GEOrRAPHIC   INCOME       rNCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION Ic  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                470.0       640.0    1260.0          1532.5    1097.7       1942.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRA,MS OF COAL EQUIVALEhT)    252.0      342.0    729.0            838.1      730.7      1646 7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
pOPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    10.3        13.8      17.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT Of TOTAL) 30.4       34.0      40.0            49.0       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     34.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       94.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       4.3         5.8       7.2            19.9       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND                30.0      38.0            99.0      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.0        47.5      48.0            45.6       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.0        48.8      48.0            51.4       55.3        56.3
65 YnS. AND ABOVE                  4.0         3.7       4.0             2.8        3.S         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.9       3.2             3.0        2.4         1.7
UR3ilN                            7. 2.i      6.1       6.8             5.2        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0        49.0      46.0            43.7       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH. RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0       16.0       14.0           13.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.5       3.6             3.2        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANhNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)                      ..          ..        ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
Ih'EX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        149.7       104.0      81.0            90.8      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  73.0        78.0      89.0            99.0      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRA.MS PER DAY)        47.0        45.0      57.2            63.6       64.4        80.9
Of WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      14.0/h       9.0      13.7            16.0       23.5        31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    30.0        21.0      16.0            15.9        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.0        53.0      56.0            53.8       60.2        65.6
rNFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ,,       142.0        ..              ..       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      56.0            56.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      80.0            83.4       75.7        85.1
RURAL                              ..          ..      40.0            34.3       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         9.0      43.0            59.1       46.0        70.1
URBAN                              ..        13.0      70.0            78.2       46.0        88.3
RURAL                              *-         6.0      25.0            26.4       22.5        33.2
POPULATIOS PER PHYSICIAN         7930.0/1    7860.0   5590.0           3677.0    2262.4       1343.2
POPULAT:ON PER NURSING PERSON        ..      2730.0   1560.0           1730.6    1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           280.0/h     340.0    370.0            577.0      453.4       197.6
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ,.      253.1       260.2
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 3ED          ..        14.3      18.4            21.8       Z2.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             5.8        5.3         4.7
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             5.5        5.2         4.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             6.0        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ,.          ,.        ..              ..        1.9         1.1
L.R3AN                             ..         2.8/f      ..              ..        1.6         1.2
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRI'ITY (PERCENT
OF D6ELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        34.0/f      ..            45.1       50.0        66.0
UJRBN                               .,         ..        ,.            67.9       71.7        85.1
RLrRAL                              ..       12.0/f      ..              ..       17.3



- 2 3 -                                            ANNEX 1
page 2 of 6
ALGCUIA- SOCIAL INDICATOSS DATA SHEET
ALGERIA                   itEF!RENCE GROUPS (A=USTED AyLP.MGES
- !IOST RECENT ESYIMATE) -
SAME        SAR'E    SNXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       LiNCOtE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    CROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0        75.0       89.0            85.0       102.5       101.7
MALE                 55.0         92.0     105.0             103.7     108.6        110.0
FE'SALE              37.0         57.0      72.0             66.0       97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0        11.0       19.0            27.6       33.5         51.2
MALE                  9.0         15.0      25.0             39.2       38.4         56.4
FMALE                 6.0          6.0      13.0.            20.8       30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  29.0         20.0        2.5/J           4.3        11.5        18.3
UP IL-TEACiER RATIO
PRIMARY                            38.0        40.0      41.0             32.6       35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                          18.0        21.0      26.0             23.4       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATt (PERCENT)        10.0        26.0       35.0            41.4        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0        11.0      17.9             16.7       13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         54.0          *-     198.0            147.9      122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         8.0      30.0             36.0       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DArLY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  28.0        15.0       17.0            17.9       40.0         78.5
CINEtIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0         6.0        2.7             2.9         3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2700.0      3019.0    3820.0
FMALE (PERCENMT)                    3.2         4.1       5.0              8.6       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.8        50.0      35.0             43.0       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.1        14.6      18.0             23.7       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                26.7        22.7       22.3            26.7       33.5         33.8
MALE                                 51.3        44.4       43.4            46.4       48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                1.7         1.8        1.9             5.1        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.8         2.6        2.4             1.8         1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..            21.4       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    ..           ..         ..            48.6       52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         .              5.3        3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..            15.0        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTItATED A3SOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        *-            201.3      270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..            134.2      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..                      288.6      282 5        550.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..            170.0      248.9        403.4
ESTIYATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..        *-             22.9       20.5
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            31.2       35.3
Not available
Noc applicable.
NOTE S
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-.eighted geomecric means, excludirg the extreme
values of the indicator and the moSt populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
Lndicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, daca for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, bet.een 1969
and 1971; and for 'lost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  Ie  Upper
.1iddle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1966;   aj  1954-60;   /h  1962;   /i  1963;
Q Certain fields of study previously classified under other second level education of a vocacional
or technical nature are now reported under general educazion; therefore daca noc comparable -ttch
those of earlier years.
Most Reeent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 24 -"X 
DEFINITIONS iF IDrlAL CNDiICA70PS                                           page   3   of   6
Notes:  Althounga the data se  dee  fro sure  genrally judged the mast authortattive ad relible, it should also he noted that they -Y oct be intern.-
tioonil   ompershl. be-ss  of the tack of stapadozed dftfslti-n  sod cOncpts used oy differet o                   tiesi  collecting  the data. The 4at.or,oetis,
osef.1 to describe order  of magnitude, todicate treds, sod  barsterioo cetalo major differenre  bnseen c-ntris..
The adluoted group  -rege  for snob todic-tor  -r  populttin-.ighted geomtric mean, roiudig the etrem  s-slur  of the Indicator and the  Wot populated
countrY to each grop.  Dho. to 15b of data, grouP aveage  of nil indicators for CaPital Surplos Oil  op-ter  and of indiontoes of Access tc inter and E-orto
Disposal, Housing, Incm   Distribotico  nod'Pverty for other ocutry groups ar  poplatios-eighted ge-etric  men  cithout ..ociusie  of Oh. e-tre meouasd
the   s.t populated ooutry.Md -s h            =cv rag  of  nutrias   2Ag  the todiontoso depends on n-mlbility  of dsta end is not u-If-om  osutos ,mt be  -orcised
indicator at a time aM   the coutry and refernc-rou9ps.
[Lit AREA (tbous-dfsq0.k.)                                                                  Access. t. Eoreta Disposal  (preto   oulto)-ttl  ubn   n   us  -
Totl-  oasufearac rsg 1usd ure  sd blend enor.                                               ober of people  ttl,         ra,adrrl   evdb   urt   ipsla
kisiuiturnl -  Most  -ect esimalte of agiculturl are  used teoruv-idy                       percetages of their repectiveppltin. oe-ta disposa1l may include
or permsetly fo'  'ups, pnetures, askit and bitben garden  or to                          ths -olletioc sud dinponaL, cith or sithout troatmet, of ha    -rocrec
iofallo.                                                                               and  cseetrby enter-born  system  or the use of pit privies sod snlar_
GNP PER CAPITA (U14) - fliP pee capita ostimaltes at creo         aket Price,               pouainpr  l'iin-                   ltc    "divde  by conke  of practicing plqysici-n
calulte  b  sae  caerio  gtiod as World R.sh Atla  (1976-7  bais);                   ulfe   rmsmdclscola   svriyiol
9610, 1971, nod 19-78 data.                                                              Ppulutios perNuring Perso  - Populaton divided by cuter of pr-ticbo   ms,i
EittY COLSUt5PTION PEP CAPITA  M- Anua  -o-optic  of --rial oc-gy                             nod femal  grduate nurse, prctisioures  sod asistantnus.
(coa  sodligite,petulou, ot-rn  ga  no  hydro-, oolcar nod ge-                   Ppluti.. per HosPital Old - total, urban, and rura  - Polatio  (total, urba,
therr-l electricitY) I ic logosa  of colequivalent per capita; 190                          nod irlI) dicdd  yiei epetv    cobrof hospital beds scmiiabd  In
1970, and 1976 dnto.                                                                        PbtIcad private geceral sod specaicd h.utpit1 and r-haiilitati-I-otv-i.
hospitals are estblish-ets permasetly vtaf fed by li beast on  physiIdo-
P'0iOJATI0i ADii  MfAL SIATISTICS                                                             hEtablish-ets Providtog prioniplly cutodial care are  ct i-cludd - Pu...l
Totsl1    ai.oti    i-er   mlios   As of July i; 1960, 1970, -an                            bcspitaiu, hoasce, inolude health and medical  -ct-r  cot pe-oetly otafold
1977 data.                                                                                by n physioias (but by a   doi  sistant, curs, cideife, etc.) chicO ,f
IrbanDpltc   preto   ou        stoo   va   otOlpjsaic                                       in-patient acooadatln  and provide a limited ran ge of medical facilites
difaet definiti-c  of urban  r0-  say ef     comaraility of unto                     dnsin e  dospital Pod - Total cober of an             tsinan  ordicuvcfo
agootri-co  i~6o, 1970, nod 1975 udt.                                               hosyitall  divided by the outer of bode.
Otnioti ion  rjotio cn0        _    tppIt.   pjt..-b-                                      IC
1975 tota  opnyltio  Op age nod  e- nod their  -otality and forsility                Averag  lice o~f Huarhoid (person  per   u cd) - ttal, ubso, and ruru
coons  frioisparnocr  for -ov-lity ratou cmpri- of circe                                 toohO         oiots of agru  of ind.-dul  ci  share licisoJ            aroo  n
-sno  ouiog lif's vopoct-y at biroh i--iolg such c-utry                           their main meals.  A hoadrdr or logrmy or asp nit lv  iocd,ov   i,, tic
pr- I.Pit. iro,o leve, pod fo,niiv Iifo  -oytcIany otailiciag st                       iosvhcld foe atti. tic-l psorpones
77.5 pears .  The parsater  for fertility rotc olls  tao  thrvo leo-lo               As enmer of  Isns per coo  - total, jrba, an  rura  - Ac-rgo  -dohn
acudgdecIi- in fortility ucoor dig to incom  love  nod past                       of ;...o_ per rOO  is all urban, sod rura  occupind c...o-tio-n  d.rilicog
fanily nlaoisg p-rf-r-nv  E-h zoctry ic thot sssig-sd on   f those                     rosIeti-lY .  D-elings oclude no-p.reoet ot-trucure  ad.ocuvdp-o.
oboe  I-bi-tsis  of  -otclity coO fo-tuiJty tr-do f-c proji-tioc                    Acces  tO tletiviciy (p.-ooet of isellingo) - tot"l   ra,nsarrl-In
otioryopuittion-   in a otatioro   population there is no gr...th                  totel, urbo, nd rura  d-ellings  -epecti rely.
sisco tte birthorutv ii cool to thc d-nth rto, and alec the  age
aiutivo  _eci _sontant. This Is nohiecd only aftco fertllit -rtes                   DICSATICN
doclics to she rvplr-nct leve  of  ni cyt repr-du-tbc case, ones                     Adjusted toru1lmeo  Patioc
vebgsrtc    f ocenrpi   sineff--cIy.  The stati-ovpps-                       Prian,ry a-hoci - total,  aeadfml      os   osl   aendful   ao
lnsiooiceoosstiateflc  th  bob    f theprojeted  h-rnt-eisti-                sect of all  g-e at the primarylevel noperceotage  of  -opccoov   pri-ay
ofnccpolenlos Iv the rorO ,ad the cute of deolico of-feenits                          occl-ege  populations; o-o      fl inludsu children agod Ol-cI poa-  to
roeto-plac-ot boo1.                                                                  nioto   o  difeet _egths o  primary eductica; fo  cuvric  n
boor statioaarp poplativo i. reached - The year  bose  statio...   population               socesa  oduti-o 1ront ma  -sc-d lIP p-rvet si-cuoo puils
vice has boec reahed                                                                      r  ebo   or  h... the official school ag.
Popuintino loosito                                                  lec~~~~~S-ondar  scc,.l - total, male and female - CmputednoO ;ov ur
for sq. baa. - Md5-y-a  popo.incio  Pos squa-  koiletcr  (li lecture) of                    odu-tloor-,ui-eot least four yer  of,approsd romr   ,sutt
Per  0  b. spicuturo1lad - Conpotva us oboc  for agrdo,1turl 1usd                    usually of  -10o 17  ear  ofae;crrsodec  corcoac  oe ally
00W.                                                                                      occlded.
ro   atco et ru-       uo(per-ot) - Children  (i-1u year), corking-age             -         outoa erl.au   ponylo eonh     - V-csinaioosli-liti-.osonoldv
(19hipeas)  ap  rtiro   15yasad oe-  aspe--otgen of mid-year                          trtia,idauarl           Io the  pr haaoioh  p-ortc i.dcpood-ctlcyr
'poplation; lyl0, i970, and 1977 into.                                                      oeparmeote of seondary loutitutloes.
P-opolao  Iot  Pas  )eroet) -total   A- d           1a  cct~h r-ten of tota1ldmd-           Pop2il-tahor ratio - pry~imay  ndsvod            - Total studnotc   -olid in.
yer  opltios  for16-i  1707,ad17-77.                                                   pr-r   n   eonaylvl   ivddb                 -uic  cf to-hbrceiccthnoo-r-            -
o7-latioo GIcoth OntoIprn)-buh.    Annual grueth cases of uru.uoditlees
popuation.oW     95-O        9i-i   o   97C -'' .                                       Adltilea   rt   (ecn)- Literate adults  sblo no red no  .,uites
Crude   itPae o  thouan)   Anvual lice bictho Per thousad of mid-                             apercetag  of total  dadut populati- aged 15 years nodoc
Crue  enthl Pate (prthuad) - A.ouni deths per thnusnod of' ld-yro                      Cltls(Pi'Idi
iroo  Oeecdotio Rtr - drA- r ountecIf daughtvr  a oca  cillb- hea                     coting los  than eigbt p--00; _ucludon unhua-o, h-a-e  ndoIlItevy
is her crgl r-pcod-tic- ps-nod if shr -op-i-coco  pr-s-t ug-                             coiolvo.
vyoifiI fertility eten-; usuallY fie-y-u  uveruos  -dcoig in 1960,                     badic Pecover  (eec thousand rrlatico) -Adl' typoso  rcior f               o   ui
i970  and 1975.                                                                          lrudvaotn to gvorrl  oit  perl thuad of poplatioc; -soludes oliccoo-
anils- cloning -A_cptors. A-oa  thuads       sca -ubec~ oroivcIecc-triso  and iso peer  hbn..                                                ocninc'csc  0000i
uc-ptocs of hirth-cotc  deie                 -.o uPic-. of natiosiu i'nily               offoct; date fo,rlcovet years sp not he conpur..hie sicc-  -.:t oc-triri
planing progrus.                                                                         abolished li-eoiosg.
Psaly Pasoig -leer  (pcce   ofsaried 0-000) - Pec...tago of auyivd              TVWpecris-rs  P (vortoposan   pulaton   - Tfb.. rei...o for broudotot ic dr-co1
Nscc~Pe frouatio (00thousodgpojuinti2on   - Ihono tic ...rn-Co i-cu%tion
ff011 AlP sifyPiTlon                                                   of~~ST    daily general iteres1.t_nsp    ,def _ed aupriodicnl putli-ctica
77iaPrlrlropoducio 00  Capita (1969-71-itO) - Itdo  cIf Per capita                     deocted primaily to recoding penorl o--s,  Is is cons.idered to he "dnily
usnool poodu-tion of  ll fodcsdlties. Production eciudos urd and                          if it appear  ut lenst four times. auek,
feed and is  ncloa  you  hal.  foadit ico cover primary goodo                          Cinema Annua  Att-ndec  Poe Capita no  Year - Paced -s tho            ~   tuhcfir-e-
(eg  s   ,cc     ieed of supa) shich ace c~dibi  ad voctaic  utoi-ots            sold durhg tnc year,  oc1uding odmiscio    to drive-ic cirnond 0h
op. coffeantcar  roluded)   Aggregteprdutionfi enh coot-y                                uits.
is hosed on ostica  ar.rsp p--rodcrpicPogts.
Pee capita2upl  c' aorc   (pe-tn of reo=c -tns) - Cunputd foss                       IAtt  pIours
nro   ouivocofscf ou   upisnnleic coutry Pocoapi-a                               Total Labor Force (thouads) - EIonoically active pocanu,lnuocaed
perda.  Availlable cpp'lies  ompoi-e dometic productobo, Lmpcts les                    fore  sodunmplyebht occluding h-iv-u, students, etc  lefiroitsi.
opocts, and obhsposiouto_i.N't  -uple    cld   anma  feed, seds,                       ic cabs  countries are  -otcoprbe
quatisie  used In foo  procesing, and'looses ic distributioc. Rquier-             feaeIva -fml  labor force, as pecetags of total labor focc.
cvs  or  Pobne   yF Iod0   pyiogIca  pod  for corl                                                            -llb,nbrfrei  farming, forestry, hurtingan
acovistan  he1thib.. coiO-rci vo  _osLs -mctl tprauf    oy soigbto,                    fishing mapercetage of total labor fOP.-
age and erdistribotion   of populatico, and a1ion   1I percet for                    Ill-l jp4 fopjgrypt) -Labcr forc  be  `lip         o truoioc  as 'uaciria  and
ustr no house.hold lo..el.                                                            e             enter an  C.. aspue-entgec' total labor f-cos
Per capita  -000y cC protein (amin  Per day) -rtein cotent ..f fc                      Participationi Pate Inercet) -totl   male  and fml  -aricipatiun  or
capta   t  uply  f fndper da. flet supply of fueddis deaiord asativity rates  ar -oPuted-a ca,ml,ad feml  1sbcc force as Per-
above. oqusr-tsn  foe all ootries established ibyOPtSD  Provide for a                    _etage  of tvit, male nod remad  popslntio  of  ll agecrepecticely;
vMun all-e-c  of 60 grum    f socul prtetoi POe day sod 20i gram  of                  196o, 1970, sod 1975 data.  These ar  IWo paUrtic.tioa rates rfleotiog
anma  sod pulse protein, of  bich 11 gram  should be apilal proteia.                   ag_-e  st_utur  of the ppolatice, sod long time tread.  A feeetiae
Thes  standardsr  losr tha_  tbose of 75 gram   of total protein  sa                   are foot notiasI _sure.
23 gram   of anima  prtto as an average foc ohs  -gld, penposed by FAOl             ftomomo PvMn,u  Ptio  -  Pat io of population under 15 and 65 sod o-sc On
is the Third told rood Su.-Sy.                                                         the laoI     oc   naegroup of 15-61 year..
Pee eapita prutei. supply from  nIma sod pub-  - Pectrie supply of food
do  ed  rmanml  sod pulse  ingam;erdy
Child rage  l~s toaity pate  petosn)-daa   etsprtvsn                                      Pretm    frd-t   noe obi   aha   kind) - Rnoel-ed bycihs
In  age grop 14s years, tv childre  io this age grop; for cost dsol-                      5                       ;7S,rihst2  pret, jost 20 prcent  ad  poorest Al4 eren
oping  -outries data derived fro  life tables.          .                                  f hoaseblds.
PPAILTH                                                                                   9'KP'V   F TAPItIlt GROUIPS
LIfE. gentag    at Birth   ears)   Averge  -sbro of yros of life                          Estimated Absolote post   om   eellWaoooi)-  ra   o   ua
remainingat birth  lptO, 170, and  977.data.                                   Absolute povetyboslrlitht as ly1   lnebbamsia
I   n Scaite Pate (see thosad    A-.Onu   deaths of I.infts under on                        asotetionally adeuate diet plus esasil  o-food equir  ets is not
year of age Per thousad live hiotho.                                                      af;urdbs.
Arosas to dar  Water es4 -t ofNnwain      toa    ra                 d  ua                  simtdOltveltw                  as   ee    i persaufita) -_uban and r-ra 
Sobro   peole (ctalubn,-      a    ua)  ibeaombeacsst-ua  ve1tig   us-rt.iou                                            es  is  _ssthirofaegepevpt
safe enter nopply :ioldes treated surface esters or  ntreated hut                         pursml begs of the coutry.  ohbg leve  Is derissd fro  the  _rurl le-e
unoot-tiaatd enter  -hc as shin  from protctsd b.her les, springs,                        oitn sdjutm t for blaser oust of living in urba            -as
andsaitar_  els  as - pecetages of their respatice pupoatioss. to                   1siais  Ppoaltit islo   Asi                      [ossct(e nt)- urban and
an  nta  ara apuPicf.Mt          ortals c  soagat leatsd not mar thearrl-Pee    fpplta   ubn                                     rrl   h   n aslt  peor'.
rises.,  from a hous  ma  he        iderd an being within r-smahle
_oes  of that h-.s.  in rurlcn    r                  --.alsmn  could isply
that thin h .s.s.if. or  -bers  of ins househld As mat hav  no apesd a                                                             a         d Soohal Dats DPirism
dispeoportiotat  port of the day in ftohing the femily'.  eter amsde                                                        U.-i. Analysi  -d Posjcotsin  Isparimant
A.Sss 1979



- 25 -                                                              ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
ALGERIA                                                    ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual           Prelim.          Projected i/                  Growth Rates                1977
1973       1975      1977      1978        1979      1984      1989        1974   1978   1980  1985   Share of GDP
1977   1979   1984  1989
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(DA millions: 1974 constant prices)
1.   Gross domestic product                  50,435    54,305    62,665   68,169         74,577   109,750  149,108        5.5    9.1    8.0   6.3         100.0
2.   Gains from terms of trade              -10,766    -3,399    -2,910   -5,348           -149      5,636   11,090        .       .      .      .         -4.7
3.   Gross domestic income (1+2)             39,669    50,906    59,755   62,821         74,428   115,386  160,198    10.6   11.6    9.2   6.8             95.3
4.   Imports                                  14,500    22,870    25,800   26,956        29,544    38,459   49,527    15.5    7.0    5.4   5.2             41.4
5.   Exporte - volume                        21,390    20,226    22,121   23,686         25,655    37,190   37,523        0.9    7.7    7.7   0.2          35.5
6.   Exports - TT adjusted                   10,624    16,827    19,211   18,337         25,507   42,826    48,613    16.0   15.2   12.9   2.6             30.9
7.   Resource gap - TT adjusted (4-6)          3,876     6,043      6,589    8,619        4,037    4,367         914       .       .      .      .         10.6
8.   Total consumption                       25,810    32,466    37,610   40,117         43,484   66,025   103,061        9.9    7.5    8.7   9.3          60.4
Public onsumption                  5,720     6,770      7,760    8,476        9,312   15,349    24,013        7.9    9.5   10.5   9.4          12.5
Private consumption              20,090    25,696    29,850   31,641         34,172   50,676    79,048    10.4    7.0    8.2   9.3            47.9
9.   Total investment                         17,735    24,483    28,734   31,323        34,980   44,994    58,051    12.4   10.3    5.2   5.2            45.5
Fixed investment                 15,770    21,153    27,564   31,500         33,600   43,600    57,100    15.0   10.4    5.3   5.6            44.3
10.  National savings                        14,574    18,690    21,610   21,815         29,610   48,005    56,616        9.8   17.1   13.1   3.4         34.1
11.  Domestic savings                        13,859    18,440    22,145   22,704         30,943   49,361    57,137    11.9   18.2    9.8   3.0            34.9
12.  GDP at curr. prices (US$ milliona)    8,723    14,370    19,737   24,341            32,730   76,276   140,555    22.5   29.0   10.4  13.0
13.  Fixed invest. at curr. pr. (USS M)    3,582         6,219      9,486   12,469       15,115   29,735    51,135    27.0   26.0   14.5  11.5
14.  Fixed investment/GOP (currert)            41.1       43.3       48.1      51.2        46.2      39.0       36.4
8. SECTOR OUTPUT
(Diatribution in percentages; 1974 conetant prices)
1.   Agriculture                                 7.2        9.3       6.4       6.0         5.7        4.6       4.0      2.7    4.0    3.6   3.5
2.   Hydrocarbons                               40.5      34.3       33.2      32.3        32.0       30.6      19.9      0.3    8.3    7.2  -2.4
3.   Other Industry                             20.8       25.2      28.9      29.0        29.2       30.3      34.3    13.9   12.0    8.9   9.0
4.   Services                                   31.5       31.2      32.1      32.7        33.1       34.5      41.7      5.4   12.0    9.0  10.5
5.   Non-hydrocarbon output                     59.5      65.7       66.8      67.7        68.0       69.4      80.1      8.5   11.4    8.6   9.4
C.   PRICES  (1974=100 in US dollars)
1.   Export price index (incl. NFS)            39.6      102.0      121.0    119.9        169.8      286.9    415.3      32.5  18.5   11.1   7.7
2.   Import price index (incl. NFS)             79.7      122.5     139.4    154.9        170.8      249.2    320.6       15.0  10.7    7.9   5.2
3.   Terms of trade index                      49.7       83.3       86.8      77.4        99.4      115.1    129.5       15.2   7.0    3.0   2.4
4.   GOP deflator (in dinars)                   72.4      110.7     130.6    141.6        170.1      269.4    365.4       15.8  14.1    9.6   6.3
Hydrocarbon value added deflator        35.3       94.2      114.3    112.7       163.1      282.1    415.7       34.5  19.5   11.6   8.1
5.   Average exchange rate                       3.959      3.949     4.147    3.966        3.876   -
0.   SELECTED INDICATORS
(Computed at 1974 constant prices)        1974-77   1978-79   1988-84   1985-89
1.   ICOR 2/                                       4.0        4.0        4.7       5.4
1.1   ICOR non-hydrocarbon economy           5.3        4.4        5.7       5.2
2.   Total import elasticity                       2.82       0.77       0.67     0.82
2.1   Non-capital import elasticity          1.33       0.76       0.70      0.85
3.-  Average national savings rate/GDY            38.5       37.5      42.3      38.0
4.   Marginal national savings rate/GDY           33.7       54.5       44.9     19.2
5.   Imports/GDY                                  41.2       41.2       35.1     31.6
6.   Investment/GDY                               45.9       48.3       41.7     37.0
7.   Resource gap/GDY                              6.7        9.2       -2.1     -1.5
E.   PUBLIC FINANCE  (Central Goverrnent)                                        Prelim.    Provis.
(as X of GOP at current prices)
1973      1975       1977      1978        1979
1.   Current revenue                              31.9       44.5      43.1      40.0        38.6
1.1 hydrocarbon revenue                     11.9       23.7       22.0      18.0        18.9
2.   Current expenditure                          18.6       22.6       18.7      18.2        16.3
3.   Government savings                           13.3       21.9       24.4     21.8         22.4
4.   Capital expenditure                          10.8       10.0       13.0      13.0        12.8
5.   Loans and advances (net)                     12.1       21.8       24.0     24.7         23.2
6.   Oversll treasury balance                      3.7       -7.1       -6.2     -9.3        -6.5
F.   LABOR FORCE (in thousands)
1966      1973       1977 3/
1.   Agricultural, total                          1,270      1,480      1,330
- permanently employed                      (450)      (520)      (570)
- seasonally employed                        (820)     (960)      (760)
- percentage of underemployed                 65         65         57
2.   Non-agricultural, total                      1,180      1,700      2,490
- active                                     (860)    (1,407)   (2,240)
- unemployed                                (320)      (293)      (250)
- percentage of unemployed                     27        17         10
1/   staff estimates.                                                                          .  not applicable                               EMENA CPIIB
2/   Computed to GOY with one year lag between investment and output.                         - nil or less than half of unit shown             October   1979.
3/   Based on the 1977 Population Census, preliminary                                         .. not projected



ALGERIA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Million. of US dollars:  current prices)                                                 ANNEX I
-Vg8e5--.  6
Actual                            Prelin                        Pro.jected 1/
1969      1973     1974      1975      1976       1977       i978        1979       1980       1982        1984       1989
A.  SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1. Exports (including NFS)                    1,010    2,016    4,935    4,869    5,569    6,331            6,793    10,419    13,791    20,218         25,525     37,275
2. lIports (including NFS)                    1,225    2,712    4,477    6,598    6,432    8,475            9,986    12,068    14,625    18,572         22,922    37,976
3. Resource Balance                            -215      -696       458   -1,729       -863   -2,144       -3,193    -1,649        -834      1,64        2,603        -701
4. Net factor service income                    -62       112        87        38      -107      -206        -391       -576       -745       -970         -849       -446
1. Interest payments                         -11       -83      -218      -235     -381      -454         -570      -837    -1,041    -1,334         -1,213       -821
2. Interest receipts                          25        20       148        72        83        86          53         84        116        220         292        553
3. Direct Investment income                 -241         -         -         1         2         1         -15        -19        -22        -32         -46        -96
4. Workers' remittances                      166       226       202       265       254       246         277        305        332        356         356        356
5. Other factor services (net)                -I       -51       -45       -65       -65      -85         -136       -109       -130       -180        -238       -438
5. Current transfers (net)                       48        89        43        32        41        2B          40         50          50        50           50         50
6. Balance on current account                  -229      -495       588   -1,659       -929   -2,322       -3,544    -2,175    -1,529          725       1,804    -1,097
7. Private direct investeent                     41        51       360        97       179       173         136        150         150        160         100        200
8. Official capital grants                        23      -39      -427         -         -         -           -          6           6          8           8         10
Public M&LT loans
9. Disbursements                                 87    1,597        631    1,705    2,157    2,670          4,705      3,808      4,015      2,430       2,037      4,439
10. Amortization                                 -54      -234      -467      -433      -517      -713      -1,070    -1,389    -2,042    -2,945         -3,072    -3,284
11. Net disbursements                             33    1,363        164    2,262    1,640    1,957          3,635      2,419      ;.973       -515      -1,035       1,155
16. Short-term capital                             -         -         -         -         -         -           -          -          -           -           -          -
17. Capital transactions n.e.i.                  111      -277      -525        72      -262      -124        -614          -          -          -            -          -
18. Changes in reserves (- = increases)           21      -603      -160       218      -628       316        -387       -400       -600       -378        -956       -268
19. Net foreign exchange reserves                476    1,096    1,315    1,066    1,608    1,413            1,800      2,200      2,800      3,882       5,354      7,937
8.  GRANT AN1 LOAN COMMITMENTS
1. Official grants                               23         3         -         -         -         -           -
2. Total public MS&LT loans                       ..    2,305      1,453    4,125   2,642    2,543          4,262
2.1  188R                                               25        158        48      151       170         172
2.3  Other multilateral                       ..
2.4  Governaents                              ..       375        169       244      244       193
2.5  of which centrally planned               ..       (4)        (27)    (112)       (1)      (lo)          -
2.6  Suppliers                                ..       290        666    2,116   1,002         925      2,000
2.7  Financial institutions                   ..    1,544         399    1,717   1,245    1,187         2,030
2.8  8onds                                    ..        71         61         -        -        68          60
C.  MEMORANWHJM ITEMS
1. Grant element of total cosmitments            ..       6.1       16.8      10.5      6.8       8.4         5.9
2. Average interest (percent)                    ..       8.9        6.7       7.7      8.2       7.8         8.2
3. Average maturity fyears)                              14.1       13.1      10.4      9.8       9.3        10.9
1/  Staff Estimates                                                                         -  Nil or less than half of unit shown.
Not  ovailable.
EMENA CPII8
October 1979



-27 -
ALGERIA                                                                                            ANNEX 1
-ago -  of 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                                    Prelim.
1969      1973      1974       1975      1976      1977               1978
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US dollars)
1. Total debt outstanding
(DOD; end of period)                  678    2,932    3,304        4,477      5,855   8,165              11,801
2. Including undisbursed                1,210    4,916    6,002        9,591    11,440  13,785               16,977
3. Public debt service                     65       317       685        668        898   1,167               1,640
1. Interest                            11        83       218        235         381     454                570
B. DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1. Debt service ratio                    6.4       15.7      13.9       13.7       16.1    18.4                24.1
2. Debt service and direct
investment income ratio               ..      15.7      13.9       13.7       16.1    18.4                24.4
3. Debt service/GDP                      1.6        3.6       5.5        4.6        5.4      6.0                6.7
4. Public debt service/
Government revenue                  5.4       11.4      12.2       10.4        13.9    13.7               16.8
5. Total DOD/GDP                        16.1       33.7      26.4       31.1       35.5    42.1                48.5
C. TERMS (percentage)
1. Interest on total DOD/
total DOD j/                        2.3        5.6       7.4        7.1        8.5      7.8                7.0
2. Total debt service/total
DOD 1/                             13.7       21.3      23.4       20.2        20.1    19.9               20.1
D. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT (%)
1. Gross disbursements/imports
(including NFS)                      7.1      58.9      14.1       25.8       33.5    31.5                 47.1
2. Net transfer/imports
(including NFS)                      1.8      47.2      -1.2       15.7       19.6    15.0                 30.7
3. Net transfer/gross
disbursements                       25.3      80.2      -8.6       60.8       58.4    47.6                 65.1
E. EXPOSURE (percentage)
1. IBRD disbursements/Total
disbursements                         -        -         0.3        2.2         2.6     2.0                  1.5
2. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                     2.7       0.3       0.2        0.8        1.5      1.7                 1.7
3. IBRD debt service/Total
debt service                         5.5       1.2       0.5        1.3         0.8     0.8                  1.2
F. EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                                Outstanding. Dec. 31. 1977
(millions of US dollars)                                       Amount         Percent
1. IBRD                                                          138              1.7
2. Other multilateral                                              3               -
3. .Goveernments                                               1,279             15.7
4. Suppliers                                                   2,439             29.9
5. Financial institutions                                      4,102             50.2
6. Bonds                                                         204              2.5
7. Total public M&LT debt                                      8,165            100.0
8. Total public M&LT debt
including undisbursed                                   13,785            168.8
G. DEBT/PROFILE
1. Total debt service 1978-1982/Total DOD end of 1977 (percent): 183
1/ DOD at the end of previous year.          - Nil or less than half of unit shown                         EMENPA CPIIB
October 1979



-28-                             ANNEX II
page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                             US$million
Credit                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower                  Purpose         Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed and repaid                      80.5
912 AL    1973    The Democratic and    Highways            18.5                 .99
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913 AL    1973      The Democratic and    Education          3.5                1.57
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995 AL    1974    The Democratic and    Ports               70.0               20.34
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996 AL    1974    Railways-SNTF             Railways        49.0                6.85
997 AL    1974    Power-SONELGAZ            Power           38.5                1.33
115B AL   1975    Banque Algerienne         Industrial    40.0                 25.37
de D6veloppement        Credit
1159 AL   1975    The Democratic and    Tech.Asst.           8.0                5.49
Popular Republic of   Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL   1976    Societ6 Nationale         SNMC            46.0               26.85
des Materiaux de        Expansion
Construction
1209 AL   1976    The Democratic and    Education           47.0               42.52
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL   1976    Power-SONELGAZ            Power           57.5               13.49
1378 AL   1977    The Democratic and    Education           48.5               48.50
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1407 AL   1977    The Democratic and    Highways            41.5               41.02
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1427 AL   1977    The Democratic and    Ports               80.0               79.73
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1545 AL   1978    The Democratic and    Sewerage            82.0               81.70
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1595 AL   1978    The Democratic and    Education           90.0               89.27
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1683 AL   1979    The Democratic and    Highways           126.0              126.00
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1739 Al   1979    Office National des   Meat Indust.  42.0                     42.00
Aliments du Betail
(ONAB)
S016 ALl/ 1979    Societe Nationale         Tech.Assist.  20.0                 20.00
de Constr. M6tal.
TOTAL                                           988.52/           673.02
of which has been repaid                  91.76
Total now outstanding                           896.74
Amount sold                       34.81
of which has been repaid 34.81
Total now held by Bank                          896.74
Total undisbursed                                                  673.02
1/ Yet to be signed.
2/  A $5 million loan for a Water SuppLy Engineering loan was approved by the Executive Directors on January 15, 1980.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 995-AL Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date: (Original) June 30,
1978; (Current) June 30, 1980.
The project is physically completed. Full disbursement, which is
behind schedule due to claims still pending, is expected by the recently
extended Closing Date. There has been a delay of about 18 months in provision
of LNG facilities and equipment but 2 LNG berths are operational. Total
project cost, based on contracts received, is about $56 million less than the
appraisal estimates of May 1974.
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: November 11, 1974; Closing Date: (Original) December 31,
1978; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The physical execution of the project, which supports the railway's
rehabilitation program, is nearing satisfactory completion and procurement has
proceeded on schedule. Several important studies, however, could not be com-
pleted by December 31, 1978 and the Closing Date has been extended to permit
their completion.
Loan 997-AL First Power Project; US$38.5 milion Loan of June 10, 1974; Effec-
tive Date:  December 20, 1974; Closing Date:  (Original) June 30,
1979; (Current) March 31, 1980.
The project comprises high voltage substations, gas turbine plants,
dispatch facilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. All physical facilities have been completed with the exception of
the dispatch center, which is over a year behind schedule. SONELGAZ has not
yet submitted to the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial
covenants will be achieved. Appropriate decisions in this respect are however
now expected imminently.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Loan 1158-AL Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date:  January 5, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981.
Because of delays in setting up the Appraisal Unit in BAD, disburse-
ments amount to $10 million compared with an appraisal estimate of $38.5
million. Following several partial and total cancellations of already
approved projects, $3.2 million remain uncommitted. Performance remains
disappointing as regards institutional arrangements for BAD to partici-
pate as a decision-maker in the investment decision process, the improvement
of which was an important project objective. At the request and with the full
cooperation of the Government, the Bank is currently undertaking a study of
the Algerian financial system, the recommendations of which may contribute to
remedy the present situation.
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The credit subproject has been completed. The extension subproject
is now proceeding satisfactorily following important initial delays. Follow-
ing completion of the first phase of studies on the mountain sub-project,
preparation of the second phase is now starting. Consultants are mobilizing
to start work on the steppe subproject.
Loan 1185-AL SNMC Expansion Project: US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective Date: April 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is approximately six months behind
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily and completion is scheduled
for March 1980.   Arrangements for technical assistance are being made to
compensate for delays in recruiting and training staff for plant operations.
Capital costs are expected to be about 20% higher than anticipated but
financing is assured. Important measures have been taken to restore SNMC's
financial viability. The SNC technical assistance program is not running
effectively and the Government has been requested to take appropriate action.
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Project: US$47 million Loan of March 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfactorily although
disbursements are behind schedule. Following initial delays in preparation of
construction documents for Phase I due to administrative problems, construction
is now expected to start late in December and bidding procedures for Phase II
are underway. Equipment procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily. Imple-
mentation of the technical assistance program is also proceeding satisfactorily,
although'about one year behind schedule.



- 31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Loan 1293-AL Second Power Project; US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of tranbmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall physical progress is satisfactory. Procure-
ment for substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the
Bank, but some delays have occurred in construction. SONELGAZ has not yet
submitted to the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial covenants
agreed upon will be achieved, but appropriate decisions in this respect are
now expected imminently.
Loan 1378-AL Third Education Project: US$48.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project started well but has fallen over 2 years behind sched-
ule due mainly to changes in personnel at the Ministries of Education and
Labor at the end of 1977 and a prolonged bidding period for civil works for
the technicums. The Government is re-examining the low bid for technicums
construction and is expected to decide shortly either to award the contract to
that bidder or, if necessary, repeat ICB. The Ministry of Labor decided in
March 1979 to proceed with implementation of the two vocational training
centers under ICB (also 2 years behind schedule) and bidding documents for
civil works are being reviewed.
Loan 1407-AL Second Highways Project: US$41.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Implementation has been slow, due mainly to an unsuccessful first
round of bidding for the sole construction component. Evaluation of the
second round of bidding was completed in October 1979 and the $95 million
contract has now been awarded. Works are expected to start in January 1980
and be completed by end 1982, about one year and a half later than scheduled
at appraisal. The Government is also negotiating with consultants provision
of technical assistance to help in construction supervision. Training of
maintenance personnel, both in Algeria and abroad, has started early in 1979.
The loan is now 95 percent committed.
Loan 1427-AL Jijel Port Project: US$80.0 million, Loan of September 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The project is about two years behind schedule due to delays in bid
evaluation and delays in the construction of the steel complex which the port
is to serve. The Government has informed the Bank that the size and timing
of the steel complex project is now being reassessed in the context of the
preparation of the next Five-Year Development Plan, which is expected to be
finalized in April 1980. If the review results in substantial changes to the



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
original plans, reappraisal will be necessary before any disbursement is made
on the port construction contract. Meanwhile, the Bank has advised the
Government to defer award of the contract for port construction until a final
decision has been taken on the steel complex, so as to ensure that port
facilities remain closely related to future needs.
Loan 1545-AL First Sewerage Project: US$82 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: November 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of the construction of combined sewer inter-
ceptors, the first stage of a sewage treatment plant, and technical assistance
to the Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger (SEDAL), with a view to
creating a sound institutional basis for its operations and establishing new
water tariffs to enable SEDAL to ensure its financial independence. Project
implementation, after some delay partly due to the changes in Government,
is now underway. Engineering consultants for project construction have been
appointed, and the management consultants to SEDAL have submitted a first
draft report.
Loan 1595-AL Fourth Education Project: US$90 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: February 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily for the mechanical
engineering institutes (NIME and NIMET) and the teacher training school for
technicums (ENSEP). The institute for vocational instructor training (IVIT,
Annaba) is delayed because of site problems. Construction on NIME, NIMET and
ENSEP has begun. Implementation of equipment procurement is now proceeding
satisfactorily and the technical assistance program was started in September
1979.
Loan 1683-AL Third Highway Project: US$126 million, Loan of May 16, 1979;
Effective Date: September 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is proceeding on schedule. Contract proposals
for the maintenance program are expected to be received shortly by the Bank.
Bids for the first tranche of the pavement strengthening program are expected
in February 1980. Bids for construction of the La Chiffa-Berrouaghia road
section have been received and construction should start on schedule in early
1980. Training of maintenance personnel is projected to start in February
1980.
Loan 1739-AL Meat Industry Project: US$42 million, Loan of October 3, 1979;
Effective Date: not yet effective; Closing Date: April 30, 1984.
The loan is expected to be effective by early February 1980. Project
implementation is in its early stages but is proceeding satisfactorily. Tender
documents for meat complexes are under preparation. A five-man team has been
appointed for the fattening component.



- 33 -                            ANNEX III
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Government to prepare            Nine months
the project:                                   (September 1978-May 1979)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:             Consultants
(c)  Project first identified:                      October 1977
(d)  Date of bank appraisal mission:                May/June 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:            January 10, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 April 30, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i)  The Bas Cheliff Subdivision would remain under qualified
management and the Bank would be informed of any managerial
appointment to be made (paragraph 50); and
(ii) The Subdivision would be granted sufficient autonomy and
receive sufficient funds, as and when needed, to carry out
routine operations relating to the management and mainte-
nance of irrigation network (paragraph 51).






IBRD 14459
AUGUJST 1979
ALGERIA                                                Q  MEDITERRANEAN    SEA
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                                             ALGI S
Lower Cheliff River Catchment                                                                                  Cherche
40         60                        Teniit                                                                                  BLIDA
KILOMETERS                                                                       .
>/                             +4' S@/ r!   <^Od -~~,-,~HAUT  CHELIFF                    ,
S                                                   ,                                                                                                                   R e    -   N  os IeM
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K'                 gBakodda                                            Lower Chelif Cah Benk
N~~                                         ~          ~~~~~~~~~~ \                         I  n
BASi Cooe                     io Sid                                      / e
f   S   '\        v         \                 [1~~~~~~~~~~ Horrezzo Potential Dam Sites                 ttoe            LS-
This map has bees prepared by the                      '                                                                                                                     OudhosOTJ              36  ieso  Wist  w F
World Bank's staff euclos;vely for                                                                                                                                           0 D    -  c  t6  OOuedRhiou<A:S3io
the con rantanca altha readarn of                                                                                   P   umrping Srtatons                         ,       anempgonem  ,0
the repa,n to which ,t ,o attached                     '~" \u '                                                                                                                                    uiv 
The desominations used asd the                                            '  ~-.                                                                                           00di               yg
hocadaries showsnso this meap                                                                stus of
do not onyly, on the part of the ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      Tiart c
World Bank asd ,ts affiliates, any                                                      Pr~~~~~~~~~~owectrrCeifgatiohmAeat
any territory nr any endorsement                                                                                      Existing Irrigation Areas
or acceptance af such htoudalnen.                                                                                                     t
&       DRivers                                  OUED CHELIFF
_40                                  340






IBRD 14460
ALGIERS              REHAERIFAIOFIN    E_NCE _                                                                  AUGUST IY7Y9
ALGERIA                                                                                                     IRRGCATION DISTRICT BOUNIDARY
-ARFAOFIFI'll                                 SECTOR BOUNDARY
BAS  CHELIFF I IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                                                                                  -.A- GROSS AREA OF SECTOR
UC    GROS AREA UNDER COMMAN4D (PFAEEl,ed by RAI-EFgI
SE HECTARES PAPTIALLY E90  IPED FOR IRRIGAT ON
AL    GECA RES ACTUALL IRRIGATED                        -
\    '12  t                                                                    \                    <                         _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGUADU ITS
' 1 lr  \  i   2<Q-   " "  >                                                                                                        =    S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RCONDARV CANALS
- -    RIMARY DRAINS                    T                 F T
SECONDARY DRAIN S
AVED URRO RFADS  N
RI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEARC   E
RAILNWAII ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~FOIAIF
IFUTRE1 EXPANSION    ~        , 
AT,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
AFAFITPF    AS  I             FARFEICTO                   r"   ~
RI-                                                                             Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RS  AE
OF                                                                                                          F~~~,FFFFFT,FOE  IEFFFIFFFFOFAF~~~~~~~FFECTOP



