]Document of
The World Bank                        FHLE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2678a-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
ALGERIA
January 15, 1980
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN'>TS
(as of September 1979)
Currency Unit - Dinars (Algeria)
US$1 = DA 3.82
DA 1 = US$0.26
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                  British/US Systems
1 millimeter (mm)                 -            0.04 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                       -            3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                  -            0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                    -            2.47 acres (ac)
1 cubic meter per second          -            35.28 cubic feet per second  (cfs)
(m'/sec)
1 liter per second (1/sec)        -            0.264 US gallons per second (GPS)
1 kilogram (kg)                   -            2.205 pounds (lb)
1 quintal   (100 kilogram)        -            220.5 pounds
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIO)NS AND ACRONYMS
BAD       Algerian Development Bank/Banque Algerienne de Developpement.
BAI       Budget Annex for Irrigation/Budget Annexe d'Irrigation.
BNA       National Bank of Algeria/Banque Nationale d'Algerie.
CACG      Accounting and Management Cooperative/Cooperation Agricole
de Comptabilite et de Gestion.
CAPCS     Commune Level Agricultural Service Centers/Cooperatives Agricoles
Polyvalentes Communales de Services.
CAPRA     Agrarian Revolution Production Cooperatives/Cooperatives Agricoles
de Production de la Revolution Agraire.
CCLS      National Cereal and Grain Cooperative/Cooperative de Cereales
et Legumes en Sec.
COFEL     Fruits and Vegetables Cooperative/Cooperative de Fruits
et Legumes.
DEMRH     Directorate of Environmental Studies and Hydraulic Research/
Direction des Etudes de Milieu et de la Recherche Hydraulique.
DPRH      Directorate for Design and Construction of Hydraulic Projects/
Direction des Projets et Realisations Hydrauliques.
MARA      Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Revolution/Ministere de
l'Agriculture et de la Revolution Agraire.
OAIC      Algerian Grain Board/'Office Algerien Interprofessionnel des
Cereales.
ONAB      Office for Animal Feed/Office National des Aliments du Betail.
ONAMA     Office for Agricultural Equipment/Office National de Mecanisation
Agricole.
ONAMHYD   Office for Hydraulic Equipment/Office National de Mecanisation
Hydraulique.
ONAPO     National Olive Board/Office National des Produits Olelcoles.
Wilaya    Province
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ALGERIA
APPRAISAL OF BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..............................                   1
A.   Sector Strategy and Performance .........                           1
B.   Main Sector Issues ..................     ...........              4
II.   THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR ................       ............             5
A.   Description ....................................                   5
B.   Government Objectives and Performance            ..........        7
C.   Subsector Issues .           ..............................        8
D .   Bank Role .........  I .............................              9
III.   PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ..............                   11
A.   Project Area ...................................                  11
B.   Natural Resources ....................       ..........           13
C.   Land Tenure, Ownership and Employment ........ ..                 15
D.   Land Use, Agricultural Production, Yields and
Profitability ..................................                 15
E.   Marketing, Cooperatives, Credits and Support
Services .......        ................................         16
IV.   THE PROJECT            .........................................        18
A.   Objectives .......         ..............................         18
B.   Description ....................................                  19
C.   Construction Schedule and Status of
Engineering ....................     ................            21
D.   Cost Estimates ......         ...........................         23
E.   Financing            ......................................       24
F.   Procurement ....................................                  24
G.   Disbursements ......         ............................         24
H.   Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing ..                  25
I.   Environmental Impact .....         ......................         26
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which vi,ited Algeria
in June 1979 comprising Messrs. J.H. Laeyendecker, H.D. Floyd and F. Remy
(Consultant).



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                    Page No.
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................                    26
A.   Organization and Management ....................                   26
B.   Operation and Maintenance ......................                   27
C.   Water Charges and Cost Recovery ....           ............        30
D.   Audits of Accounts and Monitoring ....           ..........        32
VI.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS ....            ..............       33
A.    Project Justification ..........................                  33
B.   Project Benefits ...............................                   33
C.   Economic Rate of Return ........................                   35
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............                   37
ANNEXES
1.  Schedule of Expenditures .................................                    38
2.  Cost Table ...............................................                    39
3.  Disbursement Schedule ....................................                    40
4.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File .........                    41
CHARTS
20744  Development Program .20
20745  Implementation Schedule .22
20746      Organization Diagram Bas Cheliff District                               28
MAPS
IBRD 14459
IBRD 14460



I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Sector Strategy and Performance
Background
1.01      Agriculture is constrained in Algeria by different climatic and
geological conditions, and about 80% of the total land area is unproductive.
Generally, the richest agricultural areas are located in a narrow band in
the north, where annual rainfall (500-1,000 mm) permits growing fruits,
vegetables, industrial crops, and high yield wheat varieties, and where the
amount of fallow land is lowest. Areas in the 300-500 mm rainfall zone,
located between the Northern zone and the steppe, depend on a rotation of
cereals and fallow. Further south in the steppe the population is almost
entirely dependent on sheep and goat production. Overall, forest and alfa
grass (stipa alticissima) cover about 4% of the land area, pastureland used
for grazing of livestock about 13%, and cultivable land about 3%. Of the
roughly eight million ha of cultivable land, five million ha were utilized in
1976, and the balance left fallow. The cropping pattern included 43% winter
cereals (wheat, barley, rye), 41% fallow, 5% fruit trees, 4% forage crops, 3%
vineyards, 2% vegetables, 1% pulses and the balance under industrial and other
crops.
1.02      In 1977 agriculture employed about 43% of Algeria's total active
population of four million and 602; of Algeria's 17.3 million people lived in
rural areas. However, the rapid growth of the industrial, hydrocarbon and
urban services sectors and improvement in housing and social services in
urban areas, has contributed to high migration from rural to ur'ban areas.
During the past ten years population growth averaged 3.2% p.a., with growth of
urban population equal to 5.1% p.a., and that of rural population 2.0% p.a.
1.03      Government efforts to increase employment opportunities in non-
agricultural sectors were relatively successful, with 359,000 jobs created
during 1974-1976 or an employment growth rate of 6.8% p.a. Uneimployment
in non-agricultural sectors fell from 17% of the work force in 1973 to 10%
in 1976. In agriculture, employment creation was considered slower. The
number of permanent jobs rose by 43,000 from 1973 to 1976 at a growth rate of
1.6% p.a., while seasonal employment increased by about 0.3% during the same
period. Agricultural underemployment is high, with estimates ranging from 25%
in the self-managed sector (para. 1.05), to 60% of the total agricultural work
force.
Sector Objectives and Investment Strategy
1.04      At the time of independence, Algeria was a predominantly agrarian
society with a very limited industrial base. The basis of Algeria's economic
policy has been the promotion of rapid industrialization combined with



-2-
increasing the country's economic independence. Structural reforms were
undertaken, the principal of which was the application of central planning
to the economy. In parallel, efforts were made to develop education and
training to meet the manpower needs of the strategy. The goal in agricul-
ture, in addition to structural reform, was to shift from the export orienta-
tion of the colonial,period to meeting domestic food requirements. However,
by assigning paramount importance to achieving structural reforms, insuffi-
cient emphasis was given to agricultural investment, incentive and produc-
tivity.
1.05      The Self-Managed Farms.  Just before independence, about 20,000
properties on 2.4 million ha were owned by Europeans. Their land was nation-
alized in 1963 and right to use it in perpetuity was given to the workers
grouped into worker "self-managed" farms. The European properties were in
most cases consolidated so that about 2,000 "self-managed" farms were created
on about 2.1 million ha of cultivable land. About 180,000 permanent workers
are presently employed on these farms. A manager was appointed by Government
to each self-managed farm to provide technical assistance and to implement
Government instructions. The self-managed farms are only partly autonomous,
implementing the investment and operating plans provided them by a centralized
planning process previously emanating from the Central Government, but
recently decentralized considerably to the provincial level.
1.06      Cooperatives of the Agrarian Revolution and Private Sector.  Further
structural changes took place in the "Agrarian Revolution" of 1974 in which
state and communal land, as well as land expropriated from absentee landowners
and from the largest private farmers was distributed to landless peasants.
Most beneficiaries were organized into production cooperatives (CAPRA). By
1978, about 7,000 cooperatives had been created allotting one million ha to
100,000 beneficiary families. These Agrarian Revolution Cooperatives, together
with 2,000 self-managed farms, form the socialist sector, holding a total of
about three million ha of cultivable land. The remaining private sector
supports about 700,000 families on 4.8 million ha of cultivable land. Private
livestock owners and farmers also exploit approximately 31 million ha of arid
pasture-land.
1.07      Marketing and Credit.  A major structural change was the creation
of Government owned marketing and input supply "Offices", each specializing
in a product or group of products. The "Offices" have in many cases not
provided adequate service. Another structural change involved the consolida-
tion of the local assets of the European dominated banking system into the
Government owned Banque Nationale d'Algerie (BNA), Banque Algerienne de
Developpement (BAD) and other nationalized banks. However, credit allocated
to agriculture was reduced to low levels, contributing to the lack of replace-
ment of equipment in agriculture during the 1960's. Agriculture marketing and
input supply centers ("Cooperatives Agricoles Polyvalentes Communales de
Services", or CAPCS) were established during the 1970's. The CAPCS sell
inputs to farms and market agricultural output; primarily fruit, vegetables,
and fodder to the "Offices".



-3 -
1.08       Agricultural Planning.  There has been a partial decentraliza-
tion of the planning process from the Central Government to the Wilaya
(Provincial) Government level, and the creation of crop and livestock specific
institutes at the national level which are supposed to undertake agricultural
development, including applied research, demonstration and extension. Goals
for agriculture under the Second Plan, which are likely to apply for the Third
Plan, included:
(a)  continuation of the shilft out of food exports to food
self-sufficiency;
(b) diversification of crop production;
(c)  improvement of rural revenue, rural infrastructure, and
development of rural employment opportunities;
(d)  improvement of agricultural marketing and input supply; and
(e) relative improvement of the condition of the poorest
groups in the rural sector.
Agricultural Investment and Performance
1.09       Agriculture has been al'Located small and declining shares of in-
vestment budgets: 15% under the First Plan (1970-1973), and 11% under the
Second Plan (1974-1977). Low priority accorded to agriculture for equip-
ment and qualified personnel, as well as administrative delays in begin-
ning projects, caused the sector to use up an even lesser proportion of
national investment funds: 10% under the First Plan, and 7% under the Second
Plan. During this period investment in agriculture was nearly exclusively
directed towards the socialist sector. The private sector, with 62% of the
land, received less than 5% of credits to agriculture between 1972 and 1975.
Among productive investments, shortfalls were most striking for irrigation
schemes, where less than 50% of targeted areas were developed. Agriculture's
share in GDP declined from 10% during the First Plan to 7% during the Second
Plan.
1.10       The cropping pattern has changed significantly over time as export
oriented crops have been replaced with domestically consumed foodstuffs. As
production of most crops in Algeria is highly variable in response to varia-
tion in climatic conditions, it is difficult to discern marked trends in
yields. Total grain production failed to keep pace with population growth,
necessitating increasingly large imports. Due to changes in the area of crop,
production of vegetables, pulses, some fruits and industrial tomatoes, has
increased over the 1970-1977 period at an average rate equal to population
growth. Production of several industrial crops has tended to stagnate or
decline, particularly cotton, tobacco, and sugar beet.



- 4 -
1.11      Food production failed to keep pace with demand due to higher
consumption levels brought about by improved standards of living. Food
imports increased rapidly over the 1970-1976 period. Despite very high
growth in imports of non-agricultural goods, the average proportion of
foodstuff imports to total imports rose from 14% to 17% between the First and
the Second Plans. At the same time, the agricultural exports declined. Thanks
to the increase in imports of foodstuffs, Algerians on average are provided
with adequate intakes of calories and proteins. Unless substantial improve-
ment takes place in the sector, the total food import bill is projected to
increase by some 3.6% per annum in real terms over the next ten years.  This
might result in further worsening of the spending on imported foodstuffs of
foreign exchange earnings from hydrocarbon exports and worker remittances. In
1976 the food import bill already represented 19% of foreign exchange earn-
ings.
B. Main Sector Issues
Incentives and Investment
1.12      The central issue is how to make the sector more productive.
If agricultural growth is to be accelerated, two basic requirements must
be met.  First, adequate incentives must be created, and second, more resour-
ces (investment and human) must be devoted to the sector, particularly
to private farmers who own 62% of the arable land and represent 71% of the
permanent labor force engaged in agriculture.
Farm Level
1.13      Socialist sector farms must be given greater autonomy in financial
decisions as well as greater responsibility for repayment of credit obliga-
tions to increase their incentive to make efficient use of investments.
Increased production incentives must be provided to workers on socialist
sector farms. Consistency of farm level activity with Government plans could
be assured through the more systematic use of price policy. The present
Government policy of increasing agricultural prices relative to input prices
should be continued to stimulate production, reduce urban/rural income dis-
parities and promote the use of modern inputs.
Supporting Services
1.14      Government Administration.  Over-centralization of Government
services still remains a serious problem, combined with a lack of coordina-
tion between departments within the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Revolution (MARA) and between MARA and other ministries, in particular



- 5 -
the Ministry of Hydraulics which is; responsible for irrigation develop-
ment. This lack of coordination cculd be resolved through (a) investment and
program coordination in regionally integrated projects and (b) more decentral-
ization of decision making from the Government administration to the level of
the subdivision, enterprise, farm and commune. The major constraint on
implementing these recommendations is the availability of qualified personnel.
The scarcity of qualified staff would probably inhibit rapid decentralization
at all levels. Within the Ministries greater incentives must be provided to
induce qualified personnel to enter public service and accept assignments
at local and enterprise levels.
1.15      Research and Extension.  Algeria should confine its agricultural
research program to relevant and urgent production oriented questions and
insist on proper coordination between crop and livestock institutes. To
complement research activities Government should insist that the institutes
carry out their agricultural extension task to assist farmers. Such extension
service should be systematically planned, implemented and supervised.
1.16      Marketing and Credit.  The major marketing issues involve the
need to give the private sector access to modern inputs and commodity market-
ing structures, and to reduce scarcities of farm inputs and of agricultural
commodities. Solutions involve expansion of the role and facilities of the
CAPCS, increased investment priority given to industries producing agricul-
tural equipment and inputs, reorganization of the marketing "Offices" and
input supply intermediaries along market oriented as opposed to administrative
lines and increased flexibility provided to input supply intermediaries in
importing inputs or equipment. The allocation of agricultural credit should
be decentralized to bank outlets at the commune level. Greater use should be
made of contractual relationships between farm units and public enterprises
or cooperatives. Contracts could facilitate the provision of credit and
inputs to private farmers, with credit repaid out of sales contracted with the
CAPCS.
II THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A. Description
2.01      The Ministry of Hydraulics was established in 1977 and incorporates
the former Hydraulics Secretariat created in 1970. This ministry is respon-
sible for the development and conservation of the country's water resources.
2.02      The topography of Algeria does not allow development of large
scale irrigation schemes: the Atlas mountains are located close to the
coast and thus the highest rainfall occurs in the coastal zone. Many small



- 6 -
rivers carry the runoff over a short distance towards the Mediterranean,
traversing a small number of coastal plains which are limited in area. Larger
plains and plateaus are found in the interior, where the hydraulic potential
is limited. The situation can be summarized by stating that the hydraulic
potential is not located in the same places as the land potential. Thus for
large irrigation schemes costly dams and frequently also water transfers are
required.
2.03      The areas actually irrigated in Algeria are estimated as follows:
---ha--
Perennial irrigation in the North            200,500
Perennial irrigation in the South              76,500
Total controlled irrigation                  277,000
Irrigation by flood water spreading          185,000
Total irrigated area                         462,000
Irrigation in the South almost exclusively serves the culture of date palms.
Perennial irrigation in the North allows for growing a large variety of
crops, while flood water spreading, which varies greatly from one year to
the next is almost exclusively used for growing of winter cereals. Of the
total 8 million hectares cultivable land, total irrigation comprises only
6% and controlled irrigation only 3.5%. This is very little for a country
where the moisture deficit is such that no summer crops can be grown without
irrigation except in high mountain areas.
2.04      In Algeria, a distinction is made between irrigation districts,
with legally established boundaries, and "small" irrigation areas which may
vary from 100 to 1,000 ha and which have no legal boundaries. The hydraulic
resource mobilization and infrastructure for either type of irrigation devel-
opment may at one time been constructed by the Ministry of Hydraulics. For
the districts, because of their size and importance, management and organiza-
tion remain under the authority of the Ministry's Service for the Large
Irrigation Districts (Service des Grands Perimetres). The small hydraulic
schemes are transferred after completion to local authorities who organize
their operation and maintenance.
2.05      The about 63,000 ha actually irrigated in the large irrigation
districts represent 31% of the perennially irrigated area in the North. Only
about 47% of the area equipped with hydraulic infrastructure is irrigated in
the large districts. The reasons for this low percentage are:



-7-
(a)  there is not enough water available to irrigate the equipped area
because of reallocation of irrigation water for domestic and indus-
trial supply, or because provision of infrastructure in the dis-
tricts was based on planned mobilization of water resources which
did not take place;
(b) statistics call areas "equipped", when only canals of highest order
(primaries) were constructed while the lower order distribution
system is missing; and
(c)  the irrigated areas have been reduced because of salinity and
drainage problems.
2.06      The irrigation on 76,500 ha in the South involves mostly oases
and availability of irrigation water is an absolute requisite for any form
of agriculture. It can be stated that here the hydraulic infrastructure
corresponds to the hydraulic resources mobilized at present and that water
resoures management is generally more adequate. For the small scale irriga-
tion in the North, the infrastructure also better matches the water resources.
2.07      The separation between thte Ministries of Agriculture and Hydraulics
has resulted in a lack of coordination which renders efficient planning of
irrigation projects difficult. Frequently construction of major irrigation
projects is undertaken without consultation of the Ministry of Agriculture,
not even in the planning stage. Design of the capacity of conveyance systems
and type of irrigation (sprinkler or gravity) are thus based upon cropping
patterns often conceived by the Ministry of Hydraulics without proper planning
and coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture. Land consolidation, a
prerequisite for modern rational irrigation networks, is often not carried
out, or at best applied as an afterthought, after execution of the works
instead of before. In addition to the lack of coordination resulting from the
separation of the two key ministries, rational planning is further hampered by
lack of continuity of key staff in both ministries and resulting changes in
policy in the investment programs.
B. Government Objectives and Performance
2.08      Objectives.  The National Charter foresees an increase of 800,000
ha of newly irrigated land by the year 2000 for which 4 billion of water m3
would be required.  This figure corresponds to an irrigation reqlairement of
5,000 m3/ha/year which is low in view of actual water consumption which
presently amounts to 7,000 - 9,000 m3/ha/year for gravity schemes.  This low
projected consumption of water can only be explained by assuming a large
increase in the percentage of cereals in the irrigated cropping pattern. An
additional 2 billion m3 would be required to meet projected domestic and
industrial demand for the year 2000.



-8-
2.09      From the 150 billion m3 provided annually by rainfall, a runoff of
12.5 billion m3/year results in the Northern part of the country. At
present, about 7% or 0.9 billion m3 of this runoff is utilized. Mobiliza-
tion of the 6 billion m3 needed in 2000 would require the construction of
about 100 dams (5 per year) and imply a utilization of 48% of the nation's
surface water resources. Large transfer structures would be required since
many major water resources are not located near the cities or arable land.
The total investment for this undertaking is presently estimated at US$10
billion, without allowance for inflation.
2.10      It is not quite clear how the 6 billion m3 could be mobilized,
since a global hydrological study for Northern Algeria indicates a maximum
potential for regulated discharge of 4.1 billion m3, or 33% of the average
annual discharge.  The same study indicates that 50 dams would be required to
obtain the volume of 4.1 billion m3.
2.11      The development of 800,000 ha by the year 2000 would correspond to
equipping 40,000 new hectares per year for irrigation. This target is clearly
over ambitious in view of the existing technical and administrative structure
in Algeria. Staffing and legal framework appropriate to achieve such devel-
opment are not there. For example on the production side, the Ministry of
Agriculture has not yet developed a corresponding plan for the development
of irrigated agriculture including land consolidation and distribution and
formulation of cropping patterns, nor has a price policy been defined which
would serve as incentive to cultivate irrigated crops rather than rainfed
crops in areas already equipped for irrigation.
2.12      Performance.  Under the Second Plan (1974-1977) about 37,000 ha
were equipped for irrigation in large districts, or 41% of the planned 90,000
ha. About 22,000 ha of small schemes were completed, of which about 50% was
rehabilitation of existing schemes. Targets for the Third Plan are a more
realistic 49,000 ha for large schemes and an additional 21,000 ha of small
schemes. Expenditures for hydraulic works under the Second Plan were DA 4.6
billion (US$1.2 billion) of which only DA 2.9 billion or 63% were actually
spent. Since independence (in 1962) only 5 dams have been completed, but
tenders for 6 new dams were received in 1978.
C. Subsector Issues
2.13      Subsector issues are the absence of a national irrigated agriculture
production plan, the absence of a national water code defining the legal frame
work for water use and water charges, the lack of autonomy of individual
irrigation districts for agricultural production and the lack of qualified
technical personnel to manage and operate large districts. The very low level
of production of Algerian agriculture in general and in the socialist sector
in particular makes it more difficult to conceive economically viable new
irrigation projects without introduction of substantial reforms at farm level,
supply of farm inputs, marketing and credit (paras. 1.12 and 1.16). The lack



-9-
of an irrigated agriculture plan and the new dynamism in hydraulic construc-
tion threaten to increase the diviergence between mobilization of hydraulic
potential and corresponding deve:Lopment of agricultural potential.
2.14      A special effort is required for agriculture to catch up as quickly
as possible with the new and costly hydraulic potential which is becoming
available within the next five years. A limited number of options exists to
narrow the gap. In the first place, emphasis should be placed on the promo-
tion of those crops which show no economies of scale, which implies low
emphasis on large scale annual field crops, since these show the greatest
shortfalls in yields and profitability, whether irrigated or rainfed. Govern-
ment should become aware of the consequence of low yields of iield crops upon
the rentability of the investment in irrigation infrastructure and attempt to
improve financial responsibility in this respect. Productions to develop
include fruits, vegetables, milk and meat, with appropriate price incentives
for the latter. In the second place, more emphasis should be given to involve
the private sector, which shows a quicker response to the market and which
does not possess the relative disadvantages of large scale operations. The
suggested direction should be considered as a necessary interim solution.
When large scale field crops improve in yields, a gradual transition towards
their introduction under irrigation can be foreseen.
2.15      The socialist sector, with its 1,000 to 2,000 ha units, is charac-
terized by labor extensive operations, hence its preoccupation with large
scale field crops and its interest to mechanize farm operations. This con-
trasts with the type of irrigation development presently taking place in
Algeria, which is of the traditional type, whether it is gravity or sprinkler
irrigation with quick coupling pipes. Both are very labor intensive and run
counter to the existing labor situation on the self-managed farms.  The
socialist farms - after being equipped for irrigation - will have to shift
to a labor intensive operation, or these farms will have to adopt types
of irrigation offering the latest technology requiring least Labor intensive
operation, i.e. self propelled sprinkler guns and central pivot systems.
Such systems, however, require a rather advanced level of teclnical expertise
which is not presently available in Algeria. Because of this limitation,
the socialist farms will have to revert to irrigation systems requiring more
labor intensive operation. To improve further the productivilty of irrigation,
it is necessary to involve more and more the private sector which has a
relative abundance of labor.
D. Bank Role
2.16      The Bank has recently prepared an agricultural sector report whose
conclusions were accepted by Government and should constitute a basis for
continued dialogue with the authorities on the sector. The rieport is based on
missions carried out in late 1977 and in early 1978. The views expressed in
the report have already found wide agreement among policy-makers in the
sector. The report is complemented by a UNDP-financed study, which is setting



- 10 -
up simulation models for the sector to assist Government in decision making,
and to establish a sector-wide monitoring system. An agro-industrial loan
of US$42 million for improvement of agro-industry was approved by the Board
in FY79 (Loan 1739-AL). The project will be implemented by ONAB, the office
charged with meat distribution and marketing. It aims at modernizing and
improving managerial as well as financial arrangements of typical public
enterprises in charge of processing and marketing of agricultural products.
More specifically it aims at strengthening marketing of meat, coordinating
crop and livestock activities, increasing livestock production and upgrading
financial practices of the office. A technical assistance loan of US$8
million for the preparation of Rural Development projects in the Steppe region
was signed in September 1975 (Loan 1159-AL). This project provides technical
assistance to prepare and start implementation of integrated development in
the steppe zone of Ksar Chellala and the mountainous regions of Arris and
Aures, development of an extension service and assistance to BNA to improve
its technical capacity to provide agricultural credit. This project which has
been plagued by long delays and bureaucratic problems related to hiring of
consultants is now being implemented.
2.17      In the hydraulic sector, a US$82 million loan (1545-AL) for the
improvement of sewage collection and treatment in the greater Algiers area
was signed in FY79.  This project includes engineering studies for water
supply of the cities of Oran and Constantine.  In November 1979, negotiations
were concluded for a US$5 million engineering loan for the preparation of a
water supply project for greater Algiers.
2.18      The Bank's role and strategy for the irrigation subsector were dis-
cussed in the Bank's agricultural sector report and assistance to Government
was proposed as follows:
(i) to maximize use of existing irrigation infrastructure
through mobilization of additional water resources for
areas with existing hydraulic infrastructure, rehabilita-
tion of old but serviceable infrastructure and reclamation
of land lost for production due to salinity or drainage
problems;
(ii) to develop in irrigated areas highest return crops such
as fruits and vegetables, with possibly large modern
dairy farming, consistent with existing management levels;
and
(iii)  to gradually improve and modernize management and equip-
ment of irrigation schemes, reduce water losses through
modernization and promote utilization of groundwater
resources.
2.19      Apart from the first point in para. 2.18, the remaining strategy
items are not related to existing (large scale) districts. On the contrary,



small schemes offer advantages related to their scale: management problems
are simplified and production in the vegetable and dairy subsectors show
diseconomies of scale. Development of many small schemes, in addition, would
allow a spreading of risks.
2.20      Project Pipelines.  The Bank sector mission of 1977 and 1978
identified a number of projects for possible Bank financing, one of which
is the present project, which would be the first in the irrigation subsector.
It would (i) address rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, (ii) improve
maintenance procedures, and (iii) support production of fruits and vegetables
in the project area where socialist and private sector farms are both active.
It would further prepare for a follow up Bas Cheliff II Project (FY82)
for which major involvement of the Ministry of Agriculture would be required,
and possibly a Bas Cheliff III Project for further extension of irrigation to
potential land (para. 4.02).
2.21      An integrated agricultural development project, which addresses
directly the main issues in the socialist sector is under preparation for the
Sidi Bel Abbes Region. Project preparation is nearly complete but its finali-
zation will await specific acceptance by the Government of the recommendations
made by the Bank on such issues as organization, management, credit and
marketing. Other projects in the agriculture pipeline include projects in
fisheries, forestry and rural development.
III. PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. Project Area
3.01      The project area is located in the lower Cheliff valley (Map IBRD
14459) and is well served by a railroad, the main Algiers-Oran highway and
electric power. The Cheliff with its 44,000 km2 catchment area is Algeria's
most important river. Because of its mediterranean climate with continental
influence, discharges are high during the winter and are reduced to very low
flows (1 m3/sec) during the summer.
3.02      Irrigation water for the Bas Cheliff district is diverted by a
weir at Bou Kader constructed in 1919. The hydraulic network was designed for
the supplemental irrigation of winter wheat grown by colonists. After con-
struction of the Ghrib and Fodda reservoirs irrigation of summer crops became
a possibility, which only became serious practice in the early 1950's.
In recent years the cultivation of fruits and vegetables, in particular
melons and water melons, has become highly remunerative and private farmers
are responding by multiplying development of small scale gravity irrigation
based on movable diesel motor pumps (para. 5.06). Sometimes, use of these
pumps is illegal, since pumping directly from the Cheliff River is not allowed
because releases from dams passing through the river are reserved for the
irrigation district. The central water dispatch office in El Asnam estimates
that the illegally irrigated area in the entire Cheliff valley now covers
about 4,000 ha.



- 12 -
3.03      Upstream irrigation development and siltation of the two storage
reservoirs have gradually reduced the availability of summer releases for the
Bas Cheliff district. It was therefore decided to construct the 58 Mm3 volume
Merdja Sidi Abed ground storage reservoir. This reservoir, which provides a
regulated volume of 45 Mm3/year, will be filled with unregulated winter flow
from the Cheliff, diverted at the Bou Kader weir and pumped by a low lift
pumping station on the main canal via a 1 km pipe into the reservoir (see map
IBRD 14460). During the summer the direction of flow will be reversed towards
the fields. The pumping station was completed in 1968. Construction of the
reservoir ring dike started at about the same time, was interrupted, but will
now be completed in 1981.
3.04      Major hydraulic structures in the Bas Cheliff network are in a very
poor condition, in particular the gates of the diversion weir, three aqueducts,
2 km of the main canal and the electro-mechanical equipment of the pumping
stations. Their complete breakdown is imminent and in some cases already
advanced, threatening not only present irrigation but also the future opera-
tion of the Merdja reservoir.
3.05      In the Bas Cheliff district, development of the hydraulic infrastruc-
ture since 1936 has been uncoordinated. Thus sectors are found (Map IBRD 14460)
in which primary canals were constructed but in which canals of lower order are
partially or totally missing. Lack of water precludes irrigation of the total
equipped area. The following table presents a breakdown of the area in differ-
ent categories of serviceability:
Served by Pumping Stations
(ha)                   (ha)
Total area within district           28,249                  6,860
Area under command                   22,484 /a               6,860
Area receiving irrigation over
different years                    11,225                  5,524
Area annually irrigated           4,000-4,500                2,400
Correctly equipped area               6,631                  3,723
/a   Saline soils of 7,000 ha included.
3.06      In the Bas Cheliff district, the development based on small motor
pumps is mostly found in sectors I, VIII and X. Water is pumped from the
primary canals or main drains. The latter receive their flow from tail
water of ongoing irrigation and from official and unofficial releases from
gates in the primary canals. Whereas pumping from the river is undesirable
because it interferes with releases from the dams, pumping from the canals
inside the district should be considered as favorable, because:
(i) the pumping farmers optimize utilization of a scarce resource;
(ii) the pumps allow a flexible response to changes in water avail-
ability, matching land resources to water resources;



- 13 -
(iii) inventory and registration of pumps is easy;
(iv) the pumps perfectly complement the partially equipped areas,
which do have canals of higher order but no tertiaries; and
(v) the pumps are an optimal way of tertiary distribution
because they can be shifted from year to year following
the crop rotation. This avoids a costly permanent tertiary
distribution system which only serves irrigation once every
two or three years in a cropping pattern alternating between
irrigated and rainfed crops.
B. Natural Resources
3.07      Soils.  Within the Project area arable soils fall mainly into three
categories. Their distribution over the classified zone coverecd by the Bas
Cheliff district is as follows:
light, non-saline soils                  6,840 ha
heavy, non-saline soils                  3,730 ha
heavy, saline soils                     13,650 ha
Total                                   24, 220 ha
To the extent that the non-saline soils are equipped for irrigation, farmers
prefer to use them for their irrigated production. These soils compose the
slopes leading down to the valley plain and irrigation has been practiced on
them since Roman times. In addition to percolated irrigation water, rainfall
infiltrating on the limestone hills along the valley drains eventually towards
the low heavy clay soils in the valley bottom. An equilibrium has set in, in
which these valley bottom soils have become very saline and alkaline (EC about
22 mmohs, exchangeable sodium percentage 38%). It is expected that extension
of irrigation on the valley slopes would not increase the area of salt affected
land but rather further increase the salinity of those already saline lands
which are not used for agriculture. It seems that poor drainage is the main
reason for their saline condition although the soils appear drainable.  Past
efforts to bring them into production have included the growing of rice,
introduced around 1957. This required high applications of irrigation water.
However, the absence of a dense drainage network did not result in any major
permanent desalinization in spite of the high applications of water. It did
permit cereal production in the same fields after rice as an alternate crop,
though wheat yields were disappointing. Increasing water demands for other
crops have forced the abandonment of rice production. Most of the soils in
the fields now being irrigated have good internal drainage and are either
non-saline or only slightly saline. Salinity of the irrigation water varies
between I and 3 millimhos (600-2,000 ppm) which means water with a moderate
salinity hazard. Salt can be expected to build up in the soil over time
when using irrigation water of this quality unless natural drainage exists or
drains are provided.



- 14 -
3.08      Climate.  The climate in the Project area is characterized by cool,
humid winters followed by hot, dry summers. Rains begin in October and end
in May. Annual rainfall averages 414 mm. Data from Oued Rhiou, located near
the center of the Project area, indicates that 93% of this falls during the
rainy season. Temperatures during the summer are high and have been known to
exceed 500 C. This creates a favorable micro climate in the valley which is
reported to be advantageous for the production of certain crops, particularly
melons. Olives, oranges, and artichokes also appear to thrive under good
cultivation. Winter rainfall is just adequate for the production of wheat,
barley and vetch-oats without recourse to supplemental irrigation, except once
every four years.
3.09      Average annual discharge of the Cheliff below the confluence of the
Djidiouia River is estimated at 960 Mm3 per year but large annual fluctuations
occur. Only a small portion of the flow is regulated (160 Mm3/year) by two
dams, the Ghrib and Fodda, both constructed in the 1930's. Siltation of the
reservoirs has progressed to the point that it presently takes place in the
volume allocated to active storage. Contracts for new storage facilities on
the Harezza and Deurdeur have been let, increasing the regulated flow with
65 Mm3 by 1985. Heightening of the Ghrib dam and completion of the ground
storage reservoir Merdja Sidi Abed would further increase regulated flow by
respectively 15 Mm3 and 4 Mm3 before 1985. Altogether 277 Mm3 of regulated
flow is expected available by 1985.
3.10      Further potential, dam sites exist, and have to a large extent been
investigated, on the Sly Ardjem, Sly-Lag, Zeddine and Rhiou rivers. A real-
istic construction scheme could increase the total regulated flow to 550 Mm3
by 1990 and 593 Mm3 in 2000. Ultimate possible development might eventually
reach 790 Mm3. A potential dam site at Ain Tedeles near the Mediterranean
with a storage capacity of 1.5 billion m3 is also under consideration by
the Ministry of Hydraulics. Its operation should be reviewed, because full
development of the upstream dam sites would not leave sufficient unregulated
discharge to fill this reservoir.
3.11      Three major irrigation districts have been developed in the Cheliff
valley: the Haut, Moyen and Bas Cheliff. The following table gives 1979
actually irrigated hectares and Government's projection of extensions for
ultimate development based on land and water resources:
Presently Irrigated    Potential
---------------ha---------------
Haut Cheliff                              6,600             27,700
Moyen Cheliff                            10,200             19,500
Bas Cheliff                               4,100             19,500
The regulated flow of 550 Mm3/year which could be realized by 1990 would
be able to meet summer irrigation demand of the fully developed potential.
Cereal irrigation and leaching would take place in winter and would not
seriously affect the available regulated flow. Full development of the
three Cheliff districts implies the necessity to construct a dam on the Oued
Rhiou River for the extension of the Bas Cheliff district.



- 15 -
C. Land Tenure, Ownership and Employment
3.12      Land tenure in the Project area is as follows:
All Land               Irrigated Land
Type of Tenure                Area (ha)  % Total  No. Units  Area (ha)  % Total
State Farms                     18,800       67         17       2,424        59
Agrarian Reform Cooperatives    4,000        14         48          600       15
Veterans' Cooperatives               80       -          1           12        -
Private Farmers                  _5369       19        800       1,090        26
Total                      28,249      100                  4,126       100
Self-managed farms (Domaines Autogeres) are state-owned and worker-managed and
occupy much of the best land in the Project area. Members of the Agrarian
Reform Cooperatives have lifetime use-rights over the land they farm, but not
property rights. Only private farmers have full property rights, though the
amount of land they can own is limited by the Agrarian Reform Act of 1971.
In this report, the first three categories of tenure are referred to as the
"socialist sector" since ultimate control of their activities and finances
resides with the Ministry of Agriculture.
3.13      Employment.  The labor force employed in the Project's irrigated
areas is estimated as follows:
Type of Farms                    Permanent Workers  Temporary Workers  Total
State Farms                               765                 750         1,515
Agrarian Reform Cooperatives              500                  -            500
Veterans' Cooperatives                     14                  -             14
Private Farmers                           800                 800         1,600
Total                              2,079               1,550        3,629
The state farm permanent work force includes administrative staiEf and watch-
men. Temporary workers on private farms are usually members of the farmer's
family. Most of the work force in the area is underemployed throughout all
but the peak demand seasons of the year. The area suffers from a chronic
unemployment rate of about 12%.
D. Land Use, Agricultural Production, Yields, and Profitability
3.14      Cropping Pattern.  Orchards (olives, oranges, apricots) and vegeta-
ble crops (melons, potatoes, tomatoes, artichokes and onions) occupy about
90% of the Project irrigated area, as shown below:



- 16 -
Crop Category                 Area (ha)            Total %
Field Crops                      350                   9
Orchards                       1,826                  44
Vegetable Crops                1,950                  47
Total                          4,126                 100
3.15      Inputs and Yields.  The high returns for fruits and vegetables
enables the private sector to circumvent its customary shortage in inputs
(para. 1.16) through purchase on the free market. Though both the socialist
and private sectors appear to use adequate quantities of inputs, private
farmers do a better job of farming and obtain higher yields. As shown below,
crop yields on state farms are only 60 to 80% of those obtained by private
farmers.
Yield (q/ha)
Crop                              State Farms         Private Farms
Melons                                 130                180
Potatoes                                90                110
Artichokes                              65                 90
Onions                                  70                 95
In particular, private farmers pay more attention to the timeliness of farm
operations and carry out better weed control and irrigation on their fields
than state farmers. The mediocre yields in the latter sector are due more to
a lack of motivation among management and labor than inability to obtain
modern inputs such as fertilizer, machinery and pesticides, though shortfalls
in input supply do occur.
3.16      Profitability.  Due to the strong demand situation for most fruits
and vegetables in the country and the existence of a vigorous parallel market-
ing structure, farmers obtain high prices for most of their production. Farm-
ing, consequently, is profitable. The average net return from irrigated crop
production on private farms is DA 35,842/ha (US$9,382/ha). Melon production
is particularly profitable and private farms realize a return of DA 41,875/ha
(US$10,962/ha). State farms are less profitable. This is due to the higher
proportion of their land in low-profit crops as well as lower yields and lower
prices. Average return on state farms from irrigated crops is DA 5,435/ha
(US$1,423/ha). (After deduction of DA 1,703/ha for labor and management, this
falls to only DA 3,732/ha.) Olives, which occupy 41% of the irrigated area in
the socialist sector, produce a return of DA 1,159/ha. (After deduction of DA
1,103/ha for labor and management, this falls to only DA 56/ha.).
E. Marketing, Cooperatives, Credit and Support Services
3.17      Marketing.  The government has created several state agencies to
deal with the marketing of specific commodities. Thus, the National Olive



- 17 -
Board (ONAPO) with a branch plant in the Project area, purchases and processes
the olive crop. The Algerian Grain Board (OAIC), through local branches of
the national cereal and grain cooperative (CCLS) does likewise with the wheat
crop. Fruits and vegetables are handled by another specialized cooperative
(COFEL) whose activities are financed and controlled by the National Fruit and
Vegetable Board (OFLA) in the same way that the OAIC works through the CCLS.
The service cooperatives (CAPCS) which sell inputs to farmers, also act as
purchasing agents for the COFEL. Prices are set for each harvest season by
official decree and are planned to vary according to the price variations
established during the previous harvests. A committee exists in each province,
however, to review the situation as the year progresses and to change prices
as conditions warrant.
3.18      A dynamic free market exists alongside the official marketing sys-
tem. Prices on this market are decided by supply and demand, and profits
within the system are directly related to the buying and selling skills of
the individual merchants.
3.19      The socialist sector farmers are all required to deliver their pro-
duce to the state-controlled buying agencies, and are paid official prices.
Private farmers may also deliver their produce to official agencies, but
normally do so only when the official price for a given category of produce
is higher on the official market than on the free market. Frequently, the
official price for lower quality produce is higher than the free market
price for the same quality. In this case, private producers sell their first
quality produce to private merchants and deliver their second-quality produce
to the official market which is obliged by law to purchase it.
3.20      In addition, there is an extensive illegal market for produce from
state farms. State farm workers and members of their families sell consider-
able quantities of state farm produce for personal gain or give it to friends
and government officials. However, only produce which is sold to official
markets is considered for official yield calculations. This helps explain
why certain state farms which appear reasonably well-operated nevertheless
report mediocre yields and operating losses year after year.
3.21      Cooperatives.  The most important of the previously mentioned coop-
eratives is the CAPCS, a service cooperative which provides inputs to both the
socialist and private farms. There are 8 branch outlets in the project area
and 3 in the irrigated zones. These provide seeds, fertilizerS, pesticides,
and custom farm machinery services. They also have repair facLlities for
farm machinery. The branches in the irrigated zones also maintain stocks
of simple farm tools and production hardware and a modest, though useful,
stock of frequently requested spare parts. The senior staff are usually
agricultural technicians who have had some formal training and the director
is always appointed by the MARA.
3.22      Credit.  This is provided to members of agrarian reform cooperatives
by the BNA through small offices located in each CAPCS branch. The BNA does
the necessary bookkeeping so that any agrarian reform client who needs supplies



- 18 -
can obtain them on credit. When the client sells his produce to the CAPCS,
part of receipts are applied against his outstanding balance due the BNA.
State farms are financed through the BNA directly. Credit is approved by the
BNA once the local MARA delegate has approved the purchase of the required
inputs. Repayment is made whenever the state farm sells its production.
However, crippling restrictions are placed on further credit advances once
the state farm is operating at a loss. The nature of these restrictions is
such that it is extremely difficult for a state farm once it has begun to
operate at a loss to ever regain its profit-making status.
3.23      Extension.  There is no organized extension service in Algeria.
The Bank's rural development project addresses this situation through a
technical assistance component for extension. The MARA has created certain
institutes dedicated to improving production of certain crops or groups of
crops. These carry out some extension activities on an ad hoc basis. The
MARA personnel in the delegate's office in Oued Rhiou and the technicians
assigned to supervise the CAPCS also are available for consultation by
farmers. However, their main function is as administrators of MARA's programs
and none of them maintain ongoing extension programs within the project
area.
3.24      Research.  There is a research station located within the project
area. Aside from experiments set up by the consultants who prepared this
project to test the leaching effects on saline soils and some small-scale
testing of plastic greenhouses, no work has been done recently or is now
being done at the station which would make a major contribution to increase
agricultural productivity on saline land.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The project would safeguard the continuation of irrigated agricul-
ture as practised at present in the Bas Cheliff irrigation district by repair-
ing major hydraulic structures. These structures are in such poor condition
that their breakdown is imminent or already advanced to a point where proper
operation is no longer possible. Breakdown of the structures would cause the
instantaneous loss of the irrigated production of about 4,100 ha. In addition
the project would improve operation and maintenance by providing suitable
transportation and maintenance equipment. Repair of the structures would also
be required to assure the proper functioning of the ground storage reservoir
Merdja Sidi Abed presently under construction. The construction of this
reservoir is not a part of the project. Neither its cost, nor its benefits
consisting of irrigation of about 2,000 additional hectares have been taken
into account in the economic analysis of the project.
4.02      The project is the first stage of a three stage development of
irrigation in the whole Bas Cheliff area. The second stage would consist of
improving irrigated agricultural production in the district, execution of



- 19 -
reclamation works to improve about 10,000 to 13,000 ha of saline land and
studies for the extension of the irrigated area by about 13,000 ha. The third
stage would consist of construction of hydraulic infrastructure to equip
the 13,000 ha for irrigation. During the execution of each previous stage,
studies will have to take place to prepare for the execution of the next
phase, see Chart 20744. Thus, the present project would provide studies
required for the execution of stage two, for the technical feasibility of the
extension of the area under stage three and for the construction of a model of
the hydrology of the entire Cheliff basin. This model would permit to estab-
lish the optimal scenario of irrigation development, depending on different
sequences of construction of the various potential dams in the basin.
B. Description
4.03      The project would include:
(a) Replacement of the six gates of the diversion weir at Bou Kader;
(b) Repair of the main canal over 2 km (see Map IBRD 14460);
(c) Replacement of the Rive Droite primary canal over 900 m and
repairs over 5 km;
(d) Replacement of 4 sluice gates in the main canal and 7 automatic
gates in the Primary canals; repair of 3 automatic gates in the
main canal;
(e) Power supply to the present water turbine driven pumping station
and its replacement by electric pumps;
(f) Replacement of pumps, motors and controls in the pumping stations
III, IV, V, VII and minor repairs in the stations II and II bis;
(g)  Replacement of a total of 263 m of the aqueducts across the Oued
Arid, Djidjouia and Djidjouia old streambed and repairs of the
Oued Rhiou aqueduct;
(h) Supply of transportation and maintenance equipment for the sub-
division in Oued Rhiou consisting of trucks, excavators, a grader,
a fork lift truck, light passenger cars and motorcycles;
(i) Engineering services for (a) supervision of construction of the
Bas Cheliff I Project works; (b) continuation of leaching tests;
(c) preparation of the Bas Cheliff II Project; and (d) prepara-
tion of a hydrologic model of the entire Cheliff Basin.
4.04      The executing agency for the project works would be the Ministry of
Hydraulics.



ALGERIA
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Development Program
1978       1979       1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985        1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
Preparation Bas Cheliff I            se heehs
Appraisal Bas Cheliff I
Rehabilitation
Execution Bas Cheliff I
Completion Merdja Reservoir-
. 2,200 ha ex tension
Extension,
Leaching Tests            Reclamation Study
Preparation Bas Cheliff II                  s ss _
Appraisal Bas Cheliff II
Reclamation 10,000 ha
Execution Bas Cheliff II                                                                 -              -           - 9
Irrigation Extension and             I
Hydrologic Model Studies    Irrigation Extension Design
Preparation Bas Cheliff Ill                                                                        _m    i
Completion of
Qued Rhiou Dam
Appraisal Bas Cheliff IIl l
Exstpnqinin hv 1 q_nnn i-
Execution Bas Cheliff iI                I                                           I          I          L                               i
Summer Irrigation ha                       4,100      4,200      4,200      4,300      6,500      6,500      6,500      6,500      6,500   | 6,500   |13,000         19.500
FY79   I  FY80  I  FY 81  |  FY82  I  FY83   I FY84   I  FY85   I  FY86                 FY87       FY88       FY89   |  FY90
E555555555  UNDP Financing
Financed under Bas Cheliff I
*        U ~ *  Financed under Bas Cheliff II
zz   -  - -  Financed under Bas Cheliff III                                                                                  World Bank - 20744



- 21 -
C. Construction Schedule and Status of Engineering
4.05      Construction Schedule.  Construction of project works would start
in 1980 and be completed by 1982. The proposed construction and activity
schedule is presented in Chart 20745. It takes into account the completion
of the ground storage reservoir Merdja Sidi Abed (not a part of the project)
which is expected towards the end of 1981. Execution of works which also
serve this reservoir, such as the weir at Bou Kader and the main canal, have
therefore priority.
4.06      Status of Engineering.  Feasibility level design was satisfactorily
completed in April 1979 and detailed engineering and tender documents for all
works were completed by end October 1979. This would permit advertising
for bids in early 1980.
4.07      Consulting Services.  Consulting engineering services would be
required for:
-    Supervision of construction of the Bas Cheliff I repair works;
-    Continuation of the leaching tests started under the UNDP-financed
preparation of Bas Cheliff I;
-    Preparation of the Bas Cheliff II project, which would involve:
(a) Improvement of irrigated agricultural production including
an economic evaluation of optimum irrigated cropping patterns
and tests to determine whether sprinkler irrigation is
possible;
(b) Engineering studies, including a field scale pilot area, for
the reclamation of saline land; tender documents would be
prepared for the first year of construction;
(c) A study of water pollution in the Cheliff basin;
(d) A feasibility study of a desilting reservoir in the main
canal;
(e) A study of a short cut canal which might permit to fill the
Merdja reservoir partly by gravity; and
-    Preparation of two elements required for the Bas Cheliff III
Project:
(a) Preparation of a hydrologic model of water availability and
requirements in the entire Cheliff basin, including an eco-
nomic justification of priorities in the construction of
various dams;



ALGERIA
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1979                         1980                          1981                         1982
WORKS
Diversion Weir                                              _           m                                              Start of filling
of Merdja Reservoir
Main Canal                             _ d t
Pumping Stations                                                         _  _           _
Aqueducts                                                                   _
Primary Canal North                                                                     _  _
Procurement Maintenance                                                  -  _--
Equipment
STUDIES
Leaching Tests                                              * _
Preparation Bas Cheliff II                                           -      __
Hydrologic Model and                                                 ___
Irrigation Extension
m         m _  *   Bidding and award of contracts
Construction or execution of study                                                World Bank - 20745



- 23 -
(b) A preliminary engineering plan for the extension of the irri-
gated area of the Bas Cheliff district based upon the irriga-
tion development plan determined by the hydrological model
study.
D. Cost Estimates
4.08      Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
taxes and duties, amounts to US$13.3 million (DA 51.0 million). The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$8.1 million (61%). Taxes and duties
amount to approximately US$1.4 million (DA 5.3 million). Cost estimates for
civil works and major equipment are based on unit rates obtained in contracts
for similar works in Algeria. Prices have been updated to January 1980
equivalent. Physical contingencies for civil works were taken at 15% and for
all other items at 10%. Price contingencies were compounded at annual rates
of 12% based on a composite of expected local and international inflation.
Overall physical contingencies amount to 12% of base cost and price contin-
gencies tc) 21% of base cost plus physical contingencies. The cost estimates
are summarized on the following table and shown in detail in Annex 2. The
schedule of expenditures is shown in Annex 1.
4.09      Housing is a major problem for consultants working in Algeria.
Therefore purchase and erection of three prefabricated houses is foreseen in
the consultant's cost. A total of 212 manmonths of consulting, services is
foreseen at a cost of $10,000 per manmonth including fee, overhead and foreign
travel expenses.
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
--   DA Million---         ----US$ Millio _-----     %
Civil Works             8.87    7.31   16.18    2.32    1.91    4.23         45
Equipment               3.68    7.50   11.18    0.96    1.96    2.92         67
Engineering,
Administration         0.78    2.18    2.96    0.20    0.57    0.77         74
Studies                 1.47    5.86    7.33    0.38    1.54    1.92         80
Subtotal               14.80   22.85   37.65    3.86    5.98    9.84
Physical
Contingencies          1.93    2.65    4.58    0.51    0.68    1.19
Price
Contingencies          3.37    5.40    8.77    0.88    1.41    2.29
Grand Total            20.10   30.90   51.00    5.25    8.07   13.32         61
/a   Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 24 -
E. Financing
4.10      The proposed Bank loan of US$8.0 million would finance the estimated
foreign exchange requirement. The Government would finance the local cost
component for a total equivalent to US$5.32 million, or 40% of total project
cost. The Bank loan would be for a total of 17 years including a four year
grace period, which are the standard conditions for Algeria. Interest and
commitment charges on the Bank loan during the construction period, estimated
to be about US$0.4 million, would be paid by the Government.
F. Procurement
4.11      Contracts for civil works and goods financed under the project would
be grouped to the extent practicable into about 15 contracts. Contracts for
civil works exceeding US$200,000 and equipment exceeding US$50,000 would be
tendered on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank guidelines for procurement. These contracts are expected to amount
to US$7.8 million in total. Small contracts for civil works not exceeding
US$500,000 in total would be procured by local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts for limited numbers of equipment and
vehicles not exceeding US$50,000 for each lot and totalling about US$0.7
million would be procured by seeking quotations from at least three suppliers
or manufacturers. In the interest of maintaining standardization, one motor-
grader and one heavy dump truck would be purchased directly. The total amount
involved would not exceed US$200,000. In the evaluation of quotations or bids
for equipment procured under ICB would be allowed a margin of preference equal
to the existing rate of customs duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of
the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. Civil works for the power connection
amounting to about US$80,000 would be awarded to the National Power Authority
(SONELGAZ) through a negotiated contract. Consulting services amounting to
about US$3.17 million would be procured on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. The above contracts will be procured by the departments of the
Ministry of Hydraulics.
G. Disbursements
4.12      The Project implementation period would be abDut three years
(September 1980-December 1983). The proposed Bank loan would finance:



- 25 -
Amount
Category                         (US$ Million)   Disbursement: Percentage
(a)  Civil works and power line              2.4        46% of totaL cost
(b)  Equipment consisting of gates,                     67% of total costs or
automatic gates, electro-                          100% of the c.i.f. cost of
mechanical equipment for                           imported goods
pumping stations, vehicles
and maintenance equipment               2.4
(c)  Foreign consultants for the                        100% of foreign costs
supervision of the Bas
Cheliff I Project, leaching
tests, preparation of
hydrological model of the
Cheliff Basin.
2.4
(d)  Unallocated                             0.8
TOTAL                                   8.0
The Bank loan of US$8.0 million would be disbursed in less than three and a
half years. Disbursements would be made after receipt of proper documenta-
tion. An estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized below and is
detailed in Annex 3.
Disbursements                1980      1981      1982     1983
---------US$ Million)---------
Annual                        0.5       1.5      3.2       2.8
Cumulative                    0.5       2.0      5.2       8.0
H. Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
4.13       In view of the requirement to complete repairs of the main canal and
diversion weir before first filling of the reservoir, advance contracting for
these works according to Bank Guidelines after October 1979 is recommended.
In addition, services to continue the leaching tests should be engaged with
minimum delay. All together these contracts would amount to US$2.6 million.
Retroactive financing for these contracts, if any, will not exceed US$130,000.



- 26 -
I. Environmental Impact
4.14      The Project would have no adverse effects on the environment.  How-
ever, upstream cities such as El Asnam and Khemis presently discharge untreated
sewage in the Cheliff River. This poses a danger for the irrigation of fruits
and vegetables. In the framework of the Bas Cheliff II preparation study the
project would provide a component to study sources, type and magnitude of
pollution along the river.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      The Project is the first in the irrigation subsector in Algeria.
The Ministry of Hydraulics would be responsible for its execution. The
regional authority at the provincial level is the division of the province of
Mostagenem, located in Mostagenem. Under the division of Mostagenem falls the
Bas Cheliff subdivision, which manages the Bas Cheliff irrigation district.
The national power company, Sonelgaz would be responsible for construction of
the power connection. The managerial capacity at the level of the ministry is
adequate to carry out the Project.
5.02      Water charges in the irrigation districts are established at the
national level and are reviewed from time to time. The last two revisions
resulting in raises of the charges took place in 1964 and 1979, respectively.
Levels and type of water charges differ from district to district with the
irrigation facilities offered and sometimes with the type of crops. The
management of the small irrigation areas (petite hydraulique), once they are
established, is transferred to local authorities such as townships, which set
water charges in relation to operating costs. Usually, water charges consist
of a combination of a volumetric charge and a fixed charge. The latter can
take the form of a per hectare irrigated land tax, or of a tax on the hydraulic
capacity of the farm turnout gate (para. 5.13).
5.03      In general, the subdivisions in charge of managing the irrigation
districts have little autonomy. Much authority including awarding of major
contracts is centralized in the Service for the Large Irrigation Districts,
located in the Ministry in Algiers. During negotiations government informed
the Bank that the Bas Cheliff subdivision has been granted sufficient autonomy
to award contracts for efficient maintenance and operations and assured the
Bank that government will provide on time the necessary funds for this purpose
(para. 7.01). More precisely, the subdivision has now been authorized to
award contracts up to DA 100,000 per year per single contractor or supplier,
which is considered adequate.



- 27 -
5.04      The organizational structure of the Bas Cheliff subdivision is
presented in Chart 20746. The water police is a recent addition made neces-
sary by the dramatic increase in privately owned motor pumps which pump from
the river, the canals and from open drains for the irrigation of highly
remunerative fruits and vegetables. The main purpose of the police is to
legalize these irrigators after they pay a small penalty and as a result
most pump operators are now legally registered. This approach conforms to
presidential instruction No. 51 of January 16, 1979 in which the authorities
are instructed to make irrigation water available to the largest possible
number of farmers in order to increase production and reduce the serious
shortage in the supply of fruits and vegetables.
5.05      A number of shortcomings are encountered in the management of the
Bas Cheliff subdivision:
The district is over-staffed and under-mechanized with respect
to the small area actually irrigated. The total personnel
consists of 69 permanent staff and 102 temporary labor. Of
the latter, budget cuts allow only to employ about 26. Even so,
the resulting personnel of 95 give a ratio of only 43 irrigated
hectares per employee which is too costly. Working conditions
and productivity of staff are poor because of lack of transporta-
tion and inadequate equipment for maintenance. To alleviate
these difficulties, the project would provide for improvement of
meechanization and transportation so that existing staff could
fulfill their tasks adequately. Furthermore assurances were
Obtained that the subdivision will at all times be directed by
Competent management and that the Bank will be informed of all
appointments expected to take place in the management: of the
Subdtvision (para. 7.01>.
B. Operation and Maintenance
5.06      Operation.  In the fall of each year the dispatching office in El
Asnam issues a forecast of available water from the Ghrib and Fodda reservoirs
to the three downstream irrigation districts, Haut, Moyen and Blas Cheliff.
On this basis the subdivision formulates a preliminary cropping pattern which
is submitted to the delegate of the Ministry of Agriculture for the township
of Oued Rhiou. The Ministry of Hydraulics does not have any authority to
impose cropping patterns. The delegate for agriculture, together with the
management of the state farms and the cooperative farms of the agrarian
reform (CAPRA) determine their cropping pattern and water requ1irements and
the balance is made available to the private sector farmers. The latter have
the greatest flexibility to adjust because they are to a large extent equipped



ALGERIA
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization Diagram Bas Cheliff District/Organigramme Subdivision du Bas Cheliff
District
Chief
Assistant
Chief
Chief              Exploitation             Chief of               Water               Maintenance           Administrative                                   Stpock 
Pumping Stations         ExliainSectors                                 Police                 Service                Service               WokhpMaterials
I   I  I  Diversion                        M                                                                     Transport &
Pumping Station                                                                             Maintenance                                         _                 Maintenance
Operators                                    D itchriders                                   Crews                                                              Equipment
World Bank - 20746



- 29 -
with movable motor pumps and because they cultivate mostly annual crops of
mid and late season which allows them to make last minute adjustments when
changes occur in February in predicted releases from the storage reservoirs.
After general agreement on cropping patterns, the definitive weekly water
allocation scheme (rotation) is established. In general, the system operates
satisfactorily. During the irrigation season farmers may change their fixed
water allocation three days before their scheduled delivery. The socialist
sector is reluctant to irrigate at night, but private farmers take whatever
water they can get at any hour.
5.07      The operational activity of the water distribution employees (ditch-
riders) is not only hampered by their lack of mobility, but also by the poor
condition of the dirt roads along the canals. The Project would provide a
grader to remedy this situation.
5.08      The largest concentration of private farmers equipped with motor
pumps is found in sectors I, VIII and X. They pump from the main and primary
canals and also from the main drain in sector X which receives tail water from
ongoing irrigation and unofficial releases from the primary canal. The pumps
are frequently owned by groups of up to five farmers. Operation of these
pumps is relatively easy to check by the ditchriders and the water police.
The private sector is using the water efficiently, since it uses any increment
in the availability of this resource to extend its irrigated acreage. The
distribution to the private sector is only partially controlled but improving,
because of the activities of the water police which results in increasing
integration into the distribution system of previously uncontro'lled use.
5.09      Maintenance.  Maintenance is rather incidental and less than required
for such an old network where many of the components have outlasted their
economical life. The subdivision submits to the Ministry's Budget Annex for
Irrigation (BAI) an annual budget for operation and maintenance, which includes
excessive labor requirements. The BAI cuts the request - with justification -
by allowing only 25% of the amount requested for maintenance by temporary
labor which still results in a high rate of employment per irrigated hectare
(para. 5.05). For 1979, the requested and allocated budgets were:
Requested   A:Llocated   %
------DA Mill-ion-----
Temporary personnel for repairs                          1.741       0.435   11
Other salaries (permanent personnel) /a                  2.202        2.202   56
Buildings and materials                                  0.233       0.233    6
Operation of network (including power)                   0.620       0.620   16
Vehicles and maintenance equipment                       0.453       0.453   11
5.249       3.943  100
(US$1.37 million) (US$1.03 million)
/a   Including all social charges.



- 30 -
It is noted that the operation and maintenance budget is sufficient to perform
the tasks, except for items explained in para. 5.11.
5.10      Staffing and operating costs of the Bas Cheliff district were com-
pared with four 70 year old gravity irrigation districts in California and one
in Tunisia. Relevant figures from this table are as follows:
California   Tunisia   Bas Cheliff
O&M cost per 1,000 m3 delivered               US$3.50      US$22.40   US$24.20
Irrigated area per district employee              448 ha         66 ha       43 ha
Irrigated area per ditchrider                     963 ha        302 ha      125 ha
Number of farm turn outs per ditchrider            67            12          10
Personnel cost as % of total O&M cost              92%           82%         67%
From the four California districts the one with the smallest number of farm
turnouts per ditchrider is presented in this table. The average O&M cost per
1,000 m3 water delivered for the four California districts is US$3.25. The
conclusion may be drawn that in North Africa the managerial productivity per
employee is low, mostly because of poor mechanization, poor administration
(communications) and management. Improvement can only be expected to evolve
gradually. For the Bas Cheliff district this would imply no increase in staff
when the irrigated area increases. Since salaries constitute 67% of the
O&M budget, maintaining the same staff while increasing the volume of water
delivered, would improve the productivity.
5.11      Proper maintenance is made more difficult by the poor condition of
the trucks and maintenance vehicles. The project would provide six trucks,
one fork lift truck, three excavators and one grader to improve this situation.
The addition of the proposed equipment would add DA 1,112 million (US$0.29
million) per year to the operating cost of the subdivision, which would amount
to DA 5.055 million (US$1.32 million) per year by 1982.
5.12      Granting complete autonomy to the Bas Cheliff district is not yet
possible in the present Algerian context. It would have been the best way to
remove the constraints discussed above. Managerial capability is not avail-
able to grant complete autonomy. By insisting to exercise control over
the budget, the Ministry assumes responsibility that such a budget be properly
used and it should exercise this control by more frequent inspections of the
operation and maintenance procedures in the districts.
C. Water Charges and Cost Recovery
5.13      For the Bas Cheliff District, water charges since July 1979 are:
(i) a fixed annual levy on the hydraulic capacity of the farm turnout
gate at DA 100/1/sec (increase of 43% in July 1979);
(ii)  a volumetric charge of DA 0.08/m3 (increase of 50% in July 1979);
and



- 31 -
(iii)  if the foregoing combined, amount to less than DA 148/ha, a minimum
irrigated land tax of DA 148/ha is levied on land equipped for
irrigation. This tax was introduced as an incentive to use the
irrigation network for winter wheat irrigation, when water is
plentiful.
Farmers irrigating with pumps have their turnout levy assessed on the basis
of installed capacity of their pump, usually 10 1/sec. In this case the
volumetric assessment is based on the estimated per hectare water consumption
per type of crop.
5.14      Based on 11,255 ha equipped, 3,313 1/sec underwritten turnout capac-
ity and 26.75 million m3 sold, the expected 1979 minimum receipts would be
DA 3.5 million (US$0.92 million) and the maximum receipts would amount to
DA 4.3 million (US$1.13 million) if the volume sold would reach 36.5 million
m3, which is expected in view of additional water releases promised for the
second half of 1979.
5.15      The subdivision computes the water charges which then are approved
by the division in Mostagenem, approved by the Ministry of Hydraulics, handed
over for collection to the Ministry of Finance (Service des Domaines) which
passes on collection from the socialist sector to the National Bank of Algeria
(BNA). Finally the money is received by the BAI in Algiers. Collection from
the socialist sector is undertaken every three months and from the private
sector every six months. There are no delays in collection.
5.16      Once the Merdja reservoir will be completed, by end 1]981, an exten-
sion of the irrigated area by at least 2,000 ha is foreseen. 'Such an exten-
sion would generate receipts for 1982 of at least DA 4.72 million (US$1.24
million) at minimal water use and a reasonable maximum of DA 5.88 million
(US$1.54 million). Actual and predicted receipts from water charges and
expenditures for operation and maintenance are tabulated as fo'Llows:
Receipts (range)
Low         High               O&M Expenditures
Year( ______----(DA Million)-----------------
1978            -           3.08                    3.94
1979          3.53          4.31                    3.94
1980          3.53          4.31                    3.94
1981          3.53          4.31                    5.06
1982          4.72          5.88                    5.06
The range of future receipts depends on rainfall and hence upon the volumes of
water available behind the dams. High rainfall implies larger summer releases
and more hectares irrigated by the private sector and more waste of water in
the olive orchards of the socialist sector farms. For the latter, the rela-
tively high cost per m3 as input for low value crops does not result in
reduction of water waste because management of state farms is not penalized
for financial insolvency. After the Merdja reservoir becomes operational,
recovery of financial O&M costs from water charges would range between 93% and
116%. It is therefore reasonable to expect full coverage in 1982 under the
present level of water charges.



- 32 -
5.17      Cost Recovery.  For the 1,090 ha of private sector and 3,036 ha of
socialist sector irrigated farms, rent and cost recovery indices were computed
by taking net present values discounted at 10% over a 35 year period. These
calculations included the same estimate of the probability of breakdown of
the irrigation structures as used for the rate of return calculations (para.
6.11). An additional production cost of DA 1,000 per 1.36 ha farm per year
was imputed to the private farmers to account for their unofficial contribu-
tions to guarantee timely availability of irrigation water. On the other hand
the socialist sector pays general taxes of 75% on its net cash income after
water charges.  These general taxes were added to direct water charges for
determining the overall cost recovery from this sector. Detailed calculations
on cost recovery are shown in Annex 4, Appendix 9 of the Project File. The
main indices are as follows:
Private   Socialist    Total
Farms      Farms      Project
----------in percent---------
Rent recovery index                               5           67          19
Cost recovery index (investment plus O&M)        43           67          74 /a
Cost Recovery index for O&M only                 62           96         106 /a
Cost Recovery index for Investment only         141          220         243
/a  These higher rates are the result of payment of the irrigated land tax
by non-irrigating farmers (see para. 5.13).
5.18      The indices will further increase if additional revenues for future
extension of the irrigated area (about 2,000 ha by 1981) are taken into
account (para. 5.16). The recovery rates achieved are fully satisfactory in
view of the very high costs of operation and maintenance incurred (see para.
5.10). However, the district has so far consistently achieved full recovery
of this rate. The situation of the water charges as described in para. 5.13
is adequate. During negotiations the government confirmed that it was its
policy to take into account recovery of O&M and capital costs and to review
the water charges at appropriate intervals to keep to these principles.
D. Audits of Accounts and Monitoring
5.19      The Bas Cheliff subdivision will maintain a separate project
account and will monitor the physical implementation of the Project.
5.20      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the district
and government will carry out the foregoing and that the government will
provide the Bank with:
-    an annual financial report for operation and maintenance of the
Bas Cheliff district showing sources of receipts and itemized
expenditures;



- :33 -
progress reports on construction activities and engineering
studies to be prepared quarterly by consultants; and
a completion report of the project not later than six months
after the closing date.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
A. Project Justification
6.01      The rehabilitation program proposed under this project is urgently
needed:
(a)  to avoid abandonment of irrigation in the Lower Cheliff, one of
the best agricultural areas in Algeria;
(b)  to permit continued operation of the Bou Kader weir and most of
the main canal required for the operation of the Merdja reservoir
now nearing completion. This reservoir will permit extension of
the Bas Cheliff irrigated areas by about 2,000 ha and would permit
upstream summer releases to be allocated to the water short Haut
and Moyen Cheliff districts. No summer flow will remain available
in the river; and
(c) to maintain utilization ofi 27% of the secondary canals which serve
1,800 ha of perennial crops.
The structures to be rehabilitated will in any case continue to be used, what-
ever decisions may be taken for subsequent extensions. Any alternative new
system of distribution would be more expensive than the repair of the existing
structures; (sprinkler irrigation may not be superior to gravity irrigation,
especially in view of the very high temperatures, summer winds and moderate
salt content of the irrigation water).
6.02      The objective of the project is to preserve the status quo.  Rehab-
ilitation should be confined to primary structures aimed at continuing present
operations. No improvements are foreseen in agricultural practices nor in
structures that might increase the effectiveness of the Merdja reservoir such
as a sedimentation basin. These problems which need further studying will be
addressed under the subsequent Bas Cheliff II Project.
B. Project Benefits
6.03      Production.  The purpose of the project is to avoid the return of
present irrigated agriculture to rainfed agriculture because of the breakdown
of irrigation facilities. Thus present production is compared to future pro-
duction if the project were not carried out. Present value of production (91%



- 34 -
fruits and vegetables, para. 3.14) is DA 65 million. Without the project, the
annual rainfall of 400 mm would permit only annual cropping of low value
winter field crops, though production projections assume that the socialist
sector would retain their 1,230 ha of olive orchards. It was projected that
the remainder of the 4,126 ha presently irrigated would be under one third
each of durum wheat, barley and vetch-oats. The value of production under
these rainfed conditions would be DA 6.3 million, or less than 10% of its
present value.
6.04      Net income would be reduced even more than the value of production.
For the private sector the average net income per irrigated hectare would
drop from DA 35,842/ha to DA 1,338/ha or 96% and for the socialist sector
from DA 3,732/ha to DA 294/ha or 92%. The olive orchards would show a net
operating loss of DA 230/ha.
6.05      Direct Beneficiaries.  The beneficiaries of the project would
include 800 farmers in the private sector and another 800 associated labor,
irrigating an average farm size of 1.3 ha with vegetable crops. These crops
provide an income of DA 35,000 to 45,000 per year per farm, i.e., the greater
part of the family income. If the project is not undertaken, the 800 owners
will have to live off 5 ha of rainfed land. They will be unable to obtain any
further seasonal work on the State farms, which will also have to revert to
rainfed farming. Their average earning will fall to DA 6,690 (US$1,751) per
farm per year. The average per capita income for the 1,600 families will drop
to US$135, below the level gf absolute rural poverty (US$203). Also to benefit
from the Project will be the 1,250 agricultural workers on State farms and in
CAPRA cooperatives. These farms will see their harvests reduced as a result
of the uprooting of orchards, the falling production of olives and the aban-
donment of vegetable crops: these are losses that cannot be compensated by
substitute cereal crops. The reduction in the earnings on the irrigated 3,036
ha of State farms would be DA 10.4 million or some 92%. The loss of employ-
ment for unskilled workers in the socialist sector that the project will
prevent amounts to 170,000 man days/year. Assuming the national average of
6.5 individuals per family, the total number of direct beneficiaries of the
project is calculated to be 18,525.
6.06      Other Beneficiaries.  These would be mainly individuals in the
region whose activities are linked to the level of earnings of the local
population - such as those engaged in commerce and other service activities -
and, in addition, the whole body of Algerian consumers, who would be faced
with reduced supplies of fruits and vegetables.
6.07      Distribution of Benefits.  For the private sector, holdings of
irrigated land are limited to a maximum of 5 ha. In reality, the holding of
1.3 ha represents a reasonable estimate of the average size of family holdings
since labor constraints prevent operations on a large scale. No extremes in
the distribution of benefits therefore result for the private sector. For
the socialist sector, benefits should affect mainly seasonal labor, since
permanent workers on state farms will continue to receive the same salaries,
regardless of whether they work in irrigated or rainfed agriculture.



- 35 -
C. Economic Rate of Return
6.08      Benefits.  These represent the advantage to the Algerian economy to
preserve the irrigated production on 4,126 ha. The net incremental benefit
commonly used in computing the economic rate of return is replaced by the
net value of production loss avoided, expressed in efficiency prices. This
is the net benefit under irrigation minus the net benefit under rainfed con-
dition. Since the project is about breakdown, there is no gradual decrease
in benefits, unlike the gradual increase in benefits assumed under normal
irrigation development projects. Efficiency prices have been computed using a
shadow exchange rate 20% above the official rate for the Algerian Dinar,
leading to a standard conversion factor of 0.84. Unemployment in the region
is about 12%. The unskilled part time farm workers are employed half time for
about 9 months and unemployed for the remainder of the year. This, combined
with the standard conversion factor of 0.84 results in an opportunity cost for
unskilled labor of 31% of the daily wage. For the computations a figure of
30% was used.
6.09      Economic Value of Production at Efficiency Price.  Oranges are the
only product exported. Their value has been determined by subtracting local
transportation handling and packaging costs from the fob Algiers price. Their
economic value is DA 0.81/kg. Other fruits and vegetables have been valued at
domestic prices, corrected by the standard conversion factor of 0.84. The
domestic price was weighted.to reflect the dual market system. Since melons
represent 72% of the financial value of the harvest, the price of melons was
particularly scrutinized in view of its current high level. The price of the
standing crop, DA 1.67/kg, selected as reference price, has been corrected
with the standard conversion factor.
6.10      Costs.  To the investment cost computed at efficiency prices has
been added the cost of purchase of additional equipment for maintenance.
Agricultural production costs include water charges which take into account
the operating costs of the additional equipment.
6.11      Calculation of Benefits.  There are doubts as to the year in which
the main structures are likely to collapse if the proposed works are not under-
taken. It is impossible to estimate when the sluice gates at Bou Kader or the
aqueducts will be carried away by winter flood waters of the Cheliff and its
tributaries. It is equally impossible to predict when the pumps will break
down for good. It is practically certain that these main structures will not
last more than five years, with a great likelihood of collapse within the next
2 or 3 years. The economic rate of return calculations were therefore final-
ized on the following assumptions with respect to distribution of the probable
collapse of the structures:



- 36 -
Probability of Collapse
Year                                      of Main Structures
1980                                              30%
1981                                              30%
1982                                              20%
1983                                              10%
1984                                              10%
6.12      The benefits of maintaining the 4,126 ha under irrigation are the
same from one year to another throughout the duration of the project.  The
project will not generate benefits until the year of collapse resulting from
failure to undertake the rehabilitation program, which will extend over
three years. It will not be possible to avoid the likelihood of collapse
before the end of the rehabilitation program. An approximate estimate indi-
cates, however, that the work to be undertaken during the first two years
should halve these risks.
6.13      It is unlikely that all structures would break down at the same
time. However, 60% of the cost of rehabilitation involves structures on the
main canal and diversion weir and the breakdown of anyone of these would
affect the entire district. The remaining structures to be rehabilitated
serve smaller areas. Since their costs are small and their repairs would take
no more than one year, their individual rates of return are higher than that
for the total project treated as one unit. The latter approach thus provides
a more conservative ERR.
6.14      The Haut and Moyen Cheliff irrigation districts presently experience
some water shortage during the summer months, when these upstream districts
have to let releases from the Ghrib and Fodda dams destined for the Bas
Cheliff district by-pass their intakes. If the project were not to be carried
out, irrigation in the Bas Cheliff would be terminated and this water would
become available to alleviate the shortage in the upstream districts. Thus
execution of the project implies an increased production foregone for the
upstream districts.
6.15      Of the 22.9 Mm3 released for the Bas Cheliff district in the period
June through September, 19.1 Mm3 could have been sold in the Moyen Cheliff
district, taking into account conveyance losses. This would result in an
additional water application of 1,870 m3/ha per year on the 10,222 ha pre-
sently irrigated in that district. It was assumed that this additional water
would increase yields by 15% for an irrigated cropping pattern similar to
that found in the socialist sector of the Bas Cheliff district. The only
additional production cost associated with this yield increase would be the
cost of the additional water. The resulting Moyen Cheliff benefits foregone
thus calculated amount to DA 7.89 million per year and their probability of
occurrence is the same as those for the Bas Cheliff losses avoided in para.
6.11.
6.16      On the basis of the assumptions on the probability of collapse of
main structures in para. 6.11, the rate of return, discounted over 35 years,



- 37 -
has an expected value of 73%. It is 80% likely to exceed 82% and is almost
certain to exceed 42%. Three factors together explain these high rates of
return:
(i)  the low cost of the rehabilitation program in comparison with the
cost of the total hydraulic infrastructure;
(ii)  the high average value of the per hectare margin generat:ed by
fruits and vegetable crops at full production; and
(iii) the expectation that certain major structures will break down
within three years.
6.17       Sensitivity Analysis and Risk.  The rate of return on the project is
still 27% on the assumption that the structures will not collapse before 1987.
If it is assumed that melons will not generate a higher margin than oranges,
the probable rate of return would fall from 73% to 52%. In this case the
efficiency price for melons would be 1.13 DA/kg as compared with the 1.40
DA/kg used for the basic hypothesis.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreements obtained during negotiations included the fo:Llowing:
(a) The Bas Cheliff subdivision will continue to be granted
sufficient authority to engage in contracts for maintenance
purposes not exceeding DA 100,000 per individual contract.
The funds for this purpose will be made available on time
(para. 5.03);
(b) The Bas Cheliff subdivision will at all times be directed
by competent management and the Bank will be informed of
all appointments to take place in its management (para.
5.05); and
(c) Government will submit to the Bank (i) an annual project
account, (ii) an annual financial report for operation
and maintenance of the Bas Cheliff irrigation district,
and (iii) regular progress reports (para. 5.20).
7.02      Recommendation.  With the above agreements the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$8 million equivalent for a term of 17 years, including a
four year grace period.
January 15, 1980



- 38 -
ANNEX I
ALGEI.
BAS CHELIFF I IERIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures/gch6ancier des Depenses
Foreign      Foreign
19B0      1981       1982         Total       Exchange     Exchange
----------------DA Million---------------__-_
Civil Works                                                                                                            Genie Civil
Repairs                                 4.91      6.83       4.22          15.96        7.18           45             R8fectiom
Power Line                               -        0.22        -             0.22        0.13           60              RaccordementEElectrique
Subtotal                                4.91      7.05       4.22           16.18       7.31           45              Soustotal
Physical Contingencies                  0.74      1.06       0.63           2.43        1.10                          Ap16s PhysiqueB
Pr*c.  Continsencies                    0.34      1.54       1.60           3.48        1.57                           A168a  Financiers
Total                                      5.99      9.65       6.45           22.09       9.8            45           Total
Ecuicment                                                                                                              Materiel
Hydro-mechanical                         -        1.80       3.75            5.55       3.33           6D              Hydro-micanique
Electro-mechanical                      0.48      1.82        -             2.30        1.61           70              El.ctro-micsnique
Maintenance Equipment                   1.00      1.10       1.23            3.33       2.56           77               Materiel d'Entretien
Subtotal                                1.48      4.72       4.98          11.18        7.50           67              Soustotal
Physical Contingencies                  0.15      0.47       0.50           1.12        0.75                           Aleas Physiques
Price Contingencies                     0.10      0.99       1.80           2.89        1.93                           Ales. Financiers
Total                                      1.73      6.18       7.28           15.19      10.18           67           Total
project Administration                                                                                                 Etudes Li6es a. Proiet
Supervision of Works                    0.87      0.87      0.86            2.60        2.13           82              Supervision Travaux
Administration                          0.12      0.12       0.12           0.36        0.05           15              Administration
Subtotal                                0.99      0.99       0.98           2.96        2.18           74              Soustotal
Physical Contingencies                  0.10      0.10       O.10           0.30        0.22                           Alias Physiques
Price Contingencies                     0.06      0.21       0.35           0.62        0.47                           Aleas Financiers
Total                                      1.15      1.30       1.43            3.88       2.87           74           Total
Baa Cheliff I Project                                                                                                  Projet Ban Cheliff I
Total Cost                                 8.87     17.13      15.16           41.16      23.03           56            Codt Total
of whicht                                                                                                              dont,
Physical Contingencies                  0.99      1.63       1.23           3.85        2.07           54              Aleas Physiques
Price Contingencies                    0.50       2.74       3.75           6.99        3.97           57              Aldes Financiers
Total Contingencies                        1.49      4.37       4,.98          10.84       6.04           56            Total Ales
Other Studies                                                                                                          Autres Etudes
preparation sas Cheliff 11              0.97      1.94       1.94           4.85        3.88           80              Preparation Bas Cheliff 11
Hydrological Model                      0.50      0.98       1.00           2-8         1.98           80               mdhle uydioiogique
Subtotal                               t1.          M       -2-.94          77.33       5-.86          89               Souostotal
Physical Contingencies                  0.15      0.29       0.29            0.73       0.58                            Aliss Physiques
Price Contingencies                     0.09      0.61       1.08           1J8         1.43                            Alias Financiers
Total                                      1.71      3.82       4.31            9.84       7.87           80            Tetel
GRAND TOTAL                               10.58     20.93      19.47           51.00      30.90           60           G8RAD TOTAL
of which:                                                                                                               dont:
Physical Contingencies                  1.14      1.92       1.52           4.58        2.65           58              Alias Physiques
Price Contingencies                     0.59      3.35       4.83           8.77        5.40           61              Ale.s Financiers
January 1980



39                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
- 39 -                                                          NM-
ALGERIA
EAS CHEL IFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates/Tableau des Coats L
Local       Foreign       Total           local      Foreign       Total
___----- DA Million ----------           ---------US$ Million---------
Civil Works                                                                                                             Gieis Civil
Repairs                           8.78          7.18         15.96           2.30         1.88         4.18             Refections
Power Line                        0.09          0.13          0.22           0.02         0.03         0.05             Raccordement Electrique
Subtotal                          8.87          7.31         16.18           2.32         1.91         4.23             Soustotal
Physical Contingencies            1.33          1.10          2.43           0.35         0.29         0.64             Aldas Physiques
Price Contingencies               1.91          1.57          3.48           0.50         0.41         0.91             Aleas Financiers
Total                               12.11          9.98         22.09           3.17         2.61         5.78          Total
Equipment                                                                                                               Materiel
Hydro-mechanical                  2.22          3.33          5.55           0.58         0.87         1.45             Hydro-m'canique
Electro-mechanical                0.69          1.61          2.30           0.18         0.42         0.60             Electro-i6canique
Main.tnance Equipment             0.77          2.56          3.33           0.20         0.67         0.87             Materiel d'Eutrstien
Subtotal                          3.68          7.50         11.18           0.96         1.96         2.92             Soustotal
Physical Contingencies            0.37          0.75          1.12           0.10         0.20         0.30             Alias Physiques
Price Contingencies               0.96          1.93          2.89           0.25         0.50         0.75             Alas Financiers
Total                                5.01         10.18         15.19           1.31         2.66         3.97          Total
Project Administration                                                                                                  Etudes Lides au Projet
Supervision of Works              0.47          2.13          2.60           0.12         0.56         0.68             Supervision Travaux
Administration                    0.31          0.05          0.36           0.08         0.01         0.09             Administration
Subtotal                          0.78          2.18          2.96           0.20         0.57        0.77              Soustotal
Physical Contingencies            0.08          0.22          0.30           0.02         0.05        0.07              Alias Physiques
Price Contirgencies               0.15          0.47          0.62           0.04         0.12         0.16            Alias Financiers
Total                                1.01          2.87          3.88           0.26         0.74         1.00          Total
Bas Cheliff I Project                                                                                                   Proi-t Bas Ch-liff I
Total Cost                          18.13         23.03         41.16           4.74         6.01        10.75          coGt Total
of which:                                                                                                               Dont:
Physical Contingencies            1.78          2.07          3.85           0.46         0.54         1.00             Alias Physiques
Price Contingencies               3.02          3.97          6.99           0.79         1.04         1.83             Alias Financiers
Total Contingencies                  4.80          6.04         10.84           1.25         1.58         2.83          Total Alias
Other Studies                                                                                                           Autres Etudes
Preparation Bas Cheliff IT        0.97          3.88          4.85           0.25         1.02         1.27             Preparation Bas Cheliff II
Hydrological Model                0.50          1.98          2.48           0.13         0.52         0.65             Modble Hydrologique
Subtotal                          1.47          5.86          7.33           0.38         1.54         1.92             Soustotal
Physical Contingencies            0.15          0.58          0.73           0.04         0.15        0.19             AlEas Physiques
Price Contingencies               0.35          1.43          1.78           0.09         0.37         0.46             Alea  Financiers
Total                                1.97          7.87          9.84           0.51         2.06         2.57          Total
GRAND TOTAL                         20.10         30.90         51.00           5.25         8.07        13.32          GRAND TOTAL
Of which:                                                                                                               Dont:
Physical Contingencies            1.93          2.65          4.58           0.51         0.69         1.20             Alias Physiques
Price Contingencies               3.37          5.40          8.77           0.88         1.41         2.29             Alias Financiers
/a Discrepancies due to rounding
January 1980



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
ALGERIA
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                                      Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                             at End of Quarter
US$ Million
1981
September 30, 1980                                               0
December 31, 1980                                              0.5
March 31, 1981                                                 0.7
June 30, 1981                                                  1.1
1982
September 30, 1981                                             1.5
December 31, 1981                                              2.0
March 31, 1982                                                 2.5
June 30, 1982                                                  3.3
1983
September 30, 1982                                             4.2
December 31, 1982                                              5.2
March 31, 1983                                                 6.3
June 30, 1983                                                  7.4
1984
September 30, 1983                                             7.8
December 31, 1983                                              8.0
July 1979



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
ALGERIA
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in EMENA File
A.   Material on Algeria's Agricultural Sector
Al. Algeria - Agricultural Sector Survey. Analysis of Issues;
Two volumes. World Bank October 1978.
B.   Other Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bl. Projet Bas Cheliff I - Etude de Factibilite.
Grontmij International, March 1979.
B2. Projet Bas Cheliff I - Etude sur le Systeme d'Irrigation.
Grontmij International, April 1979.
B3. Projet Bas Cheliff I - Etude Hydrologigue Globale.
Grontmij International, May 1979.
B4.  Projet Bas Cheliff II - Projet Termes de References des
Etudes et des Travaux. Grontmij International, June 1979.
B5. Amenagement Hydro-Agricole de la Vallee du Cheliff.
N. Mechai, DEMRH, January 1978.
B6. Perimetre du Haut Cheliff. Commissariat de Developpement
Rural du Perimetre Irrigable du Haut Cheliff, January 1977.
B7. Ressources en Eau de Surface de l'Algerie du Nord, Rapport
de Synthese. Hydrotechnic Corporation, 1971.
B8. 'Projet Termes de References des Etudes et des Travaux.
Grontmij International, June 1979.
B9. Rapport sur les Essais de Drainage et de Lessivage des Sols
Lourds Sales du Bas Cheliff. Grontmij International',
September 1979.



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
G. Selected Working Papers
Appendix 1  -  Value and Number of Contracts
Table 1: Estimated Value of Contracts
Table 2: Operational and Maintenance Equipment
Appendix 2  -  Agricultural Production, Yields and Profitability
Table  1:  Farmgate Value of Crop Production 1978-1979
Table  2:  Farmgate Costs of Crop Production on State
Farms 1978-1979
Table  3:  Farmgate Costs of Crop Production on Private
Farms 1978-1979
Table  4:  Summary of Farmgate Costs of Crop Production
1978-1979
Table  5:  Farmgate Value of Crop Production
(without Project)
Table  6:  Farmgate Costs of Crop Production on State
Farms (without Project)
Table  7:  Farmgate Costs of Crop Production on Private
Farms (without Project)
Table  8:  Net Profit from Crop Production on State
Farms
Table  9:  Returns to Labor and Management from Crop
Production on Private Farms
Table 10:  State Farms of 253 ha - Production Cost
Table 11:  Value of Crop Production - State Farm
Table 12:  Private Farm of 1.36 ha - Production Cost
Table 13:  Value of Crop Production - Private Farm
Appendix 3  -  Input Supply, Credit, Cooperatives, Extension, Markets
and Prices
Table 1: Fruit and Vegetables - Official Farmgate
Prices
Table 2: 1979 Weighted Farmgate Prices
Appendix 4  -  Soil. Salinity and Improvement
Appendix 5  -  Climate and Irrigation Water Demand
Table 1: Climatic Data
Table 2: Gross Crop Water Requirement at Farm
Turnout



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
A.ppeadix 6  -  Water Resources and Demand
Table 1:  Regulated Flows
Table 2:  Merdja Sidi Abed Operating Schedule
Table 3: DEMRH Projections for Ultimate D)evelopment
of the Cheliff Basin
Appendix 7  -  Operation and Management
Table 1:  Comparison of Operation of Various
Irrigation Districts
Appendix 8  -  Economic Analysis
Table 1:  1979 Investment in Efficiency Prices
Table 2:  Input Unit Prices
Table 3:  Produce Unit Prices
Table 4:  Benefit Streams as Function of Year of
Structure Breakdown
Table 5:  Economic Efficiency Analysis
Table 6:  VaLues of ERR
Appendix 9  -  Water Charges
Table 1: Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
Appendix 10 -  Draft Terms of Reference for Studies and Works






IBRD 14459
AUGUST 1979
ALGERIA                                                        MEDITERRANEAN    S E A
BAS CHELIFF I IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                                                 ALGI
Lower Cheliff River Catchment                                                                                    Cherchel/
p0        2p;         40          6p                         Tenes                                                                                   OBLIDA
lILOMETERS
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ 
I                                                                                               - H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUT CHELIFF
Ai    lg~                              Ou/er ja Sidi Abed  Fodda
MOSTAGANE  0
m  oussa                                                               B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ougzouI
ORAN
kidi Mohamed                        .
Tiaret
(     - ~           Tiaret O                            Lower Cheliff Catchment
.Boakhaddo
j  Ghrib    Existing Dams                                                        ALGIERPS
(         |                                                    f \l 0 Harrezzo Potential Dam Sites                                         LLS
This \tsp has been p*epared by the  N                  A       Diversion Weirs                            $e  '       opHcili
Th,s -p ho be,h p,,pad by the                                                                                                                                                    OuedRhious1I6S        36`
Word dank s tha f d   f                                                                                         9      Pumping Stations                               Most gonem   \              u  l
the epw/ to which it 3s sttched                         t                  . '\ FpS                                                                                                          eougzoul
h denominations used and the                                                     0-
h-ud.i-f sh-w on this map                                                                                                                                                                         ouw 
do n-t-mply -o the port of th.                                                                                          Project Irrigation Area
World ank and its affiliate, any
judgment us the opai statu ,f
anytmerritoroyor any esndorsemersnt                                               |$ o B . 0|.N+:<>>.0h. Existing Irrigation Areas
or-accptance of subh boundanes
Rivers                                    OUED CHELIFF
CATCHMENT 
40                                   340






IBRD -46O
;_  ALC.IERS _A,GUE,AE [ITAT.09NF+ANCED                                                                            AST 97
ALGERIA                                                                                                        RRERGATION OISTRICT BOUNDARY
SECTOR BOUNDARY
MBAS  CHELIFF I IRRIGATION   PROJECT                                                       j                                                   GROS AREA OF SECTOR    F -spp   R Rupg)   /
,c GOSAREA UNDER CMADIP.p~  ,-,
A   EC T` PE' PART ALL EOLIPPED HOE R~OH
F EMTAReS DA--UALLIRIGTE
4,_XK  i   -t                                                                   X A   L G E R  A          0                e         S     PUMPING STA O IS                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&  UMPIG  TATOI
\  @    R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~;S  < '   '  \                                                                                 -         = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR MARY CANALS
:ECONEDARY DRA NS                              UHTHT H
\  i                  t                        <        ~ ~ ~ ~~~                   <               <                  >             >                    9         E ~COR  NDERGROUNID PIPES
I-   RIVERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~BAKAE
'5H HwjR .AMADEKA              r           .r        ES ID ' ID H.  . -            r_i-- o        8      ;      XSEC     -'    . '-  -                          -A -               INR METERS
5T  HH        -     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S5ON
<\4s SEGE  RO 
L-                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FTR EXAN ON



