DOCU    N      LOAN NUMBER 1802 AL
Loan Agreement
(Bas Chf1iff I Irrigation Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated            C9, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1802 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1980, between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL-
OPMENT (hereinaf"ter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Algerian Dinars" and "DA" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(b) "Bas Cheliff Subdivision" means the administrative
subdivision in charge of the management of the Bas Cheliff
irrigation district; and
(c) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year beginning
January 1 and ending December 31 in each year.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of


﻿-2-
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry,out the Project
through its Ministry of Hydraulics (hereinafter called the
Ministry) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿3
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the super-
vision of the works to be constructed under Part A of the Project
and in undertaking the leaching tests and studies under Part C of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project,
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the tender documents (including
the plans and specifications), contract documents and construction
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; (iii) prepare and forward to the Bank,
at regular intervals, progress reports on (A) the construction
activities carried out under Part A of the Project, and (B).the
engineering studies carried out under Part C of the Project; and
(iv) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure oi the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Within a reasonable time after completion of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the


﻿-4-
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and operation
of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the Bas Ch6liff
Subdivision carries out its operations under the supervision
of qualified management and shall inform the Bank of any appoint-
ments it proposes to make in the management thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower agrees that, except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no lien shall be
created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange.
(b) The foregoing agreement shall not apply to: (i) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for payment of the purchase price of such property; and
(ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any subdivision thereof and of any
entity owned or controlled by the Borrower or any such subdivi-
sion.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained a separate annual project account (hereinafter
called the Project Account) established on the basis of records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expendi-
tures, in respect of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.02
(a) above, the Borrower shall, through its Ministry, ensure that


﻿-5-
the Bas Cheliff Subdivision maintain an annual operation
and maintenance account (hereinafter called the O&M Account)
detailing the resources and expenditures of the Bas Ch6liff
Subdivision in operating and maintaining the irrigation network of
the Bas Cheliff district.
(c) The Borrower shall, through its Ministry: (i) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each Fiscal Year, certified copies of
the O&M Account of the Bas Cheliff Subdivision for such year as
well as certified copies of the Project Account; and (ii) furnish
to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of the Bas Cheliff Subdivision and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such measures as
may be required to ensure that the Bas Cheliff Subdivision is
granted sufficient autonomy and has, as and when needed, suffi-
cient funds to carry out routine operations relr' ing to the
management and maintenance of the irrigation network of the Bas
Cheliff district.
ARTICLE V
Te   na ion
Section 5.01. The date                  V        , is hereby
specified for the purposes of S tion 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLF VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Palais du Gouvernement
Alger
Algeria


﻿-6-
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINAN                              52062
Alger
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Midle East and North Africa


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 2,400,000         46%
(2) Vehicles,                   2,400,000         100% of foreign
materials and                                expenditures and
equipment                                    67% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory or ex-
store)
(3) Consultants'                2,400,000         100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(4) Unallocated                   800,000
TOTAL       8,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the


﻿-8-
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that (i) with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date to carry out
Part A of the Project, and (ii) withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $30,000 may be made in
respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date to carry out Part C.1 of the
Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by explanatory notice to the Borrower, cancel


﻿-9-
such amount of the Loan a-, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of a development program
designed to preserve and expand irrigated agriculture in the
Borrower's Bas Cheliff irrigation district. It consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Irrigation Works
Rehabilitation of major hydraulic structures in the Bas
Chf1iff network, including:
1.   replacement of 6 gates of the diversion dam at Bou
Kader and execution of related works;
2.   replacement of 3 aqueducts across the Arid, new Djid-
jouia and old Djidjouia rivers of a total length of
about 260 m and repair of the Rhiou river aqueduct;
3.   replacement of about 900 m and repair of 5,000 m
of primary canals;
4.   repair of about 2,000 m of the main canal;
5.   replacement of 4 manually operated main canal sluice
gates and of 7 automatic primary canal sluice gates,
and repair of 3 automatic main canal sluice gates;
6.   rehabilitation of 5 pumping stations; and
7.   installation of power connections.
Part B:  Vehicles and Equipment
Acquisition of vehicles and equipment for the Oued Rhiou
Subdivision, including trucks, excavators, a grader, a fork-lift
truck, passenger cars and motorcycles.
Part C:   Studies, Preparation of Future Projects and Research
1.   Soil leaching tests.


﻿- 11 -
2.   Development of a computer model of the hydrology of
the catchment area of the ChAliff river, taking into
account all existing and potential structures for
water resource development (including the Qued Rhiou
dam). On the basis of said model, establishment of
different sequences for the mobilization of these water
resources and for irrigation development in the Ch6liff
valley.
3.   Studies for (i) rehabilitation and optimization of the
secondary and tertiary distribution network, (ii)
rehabilitation of saline soils, (Iii) optimization of
cropping patterns, (iv) future systems of irrigation,
(v) a scheme to supply the Merdja reservoir from the
main canal taking into account a desilting basin, and
(vi) final design of works recommended under the afore-
mentioned studies.
4.   Preliminary design of a future extension of the Bas
Cheliff district.
5.   Inventory of the pollution of the Ch6liff river.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1984
through   November 15, 1996                 310,000
On May 15, 1997                                  250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specitied as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereunder, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 30 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and civil
works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
respectively grouped to appropriate bid packages.
4.    'or the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Schedule:


﻿- 15 -
1.   Contracts for civil works required under Part A.1
through A.6 of the Project, which do not exceed the equivalent
of $200,000 each and which do not exceed, in the aggregate, the
equivalent of $500,000, may be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Civil works for the installation of the power connec-
tions required under Part A.7 of the Project, estimated to cost
the equivalent of about $80,000, shall be carried out on the
basis of a negotiated contract between the Borrower and the
Sociftg Nationale d'Electricit6 et du Gaz under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles, which do not
exceed the equivalent of $50,000 each and which do not exceed, in
the aggregate, the equivalent of $700,000, may be awarded after
solicitation of quotations from at least three manufacturers or
suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Part B, one heavy dump truck and one motorgrader required under
Part B of the Project not exceeding in the aggregate the equiva-
lent of $200,000 may be purchased under negotiated contracts.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with international
competitive bidding procedures pursuant to Part A of this Sche-
dule, goods manufactured in the Democratic and Popular Republic of
Algeria may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfac-
tion of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added


﻿- 16 -
in the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of
each group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be
compared among themselves, without taking into account customs
duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the
importation, and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with
the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such
lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and
if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed


﻿- 17 -
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform


﻿- 18 -
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  4IPLday of -JfiAW    , 19fl.
FOR SECRETARY


