Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7511-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 8, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 8, 2008
,
between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC 
 
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars 
($200,000,000) 
(“Loan”), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement, to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Article IV 
of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV –
 
EFFECTIVENESS
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V –
 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ 
Zheng 
Xiaosong 
    
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to increase the effective use 
of road infrastructure in Anhui Province to support its social and economic development. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Road Rehabilitation 
 
Rehabilitation of about 890 kms of selected road segments included in the Anhui 
Provincial Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program for the period 2007-2010 under the 
Borrower’s Eleventh Five Year Program (EFYP), including improving pavement 
conditions of the roads by resurfacing, specific structural strengthening, and limited 
adjustments to the alignment when required to improve safety, and provision of technical 
assistance for construction.  
 
Part B: Road Improvement  
 
Improvement and upgrading of about 320 km of selected provincial and national roads 
located in the central-eastern and southeastern areas of Anhui Province, including 
provision of technical assistance for construction. 
 
Part C: Pilot on Road Maintenance by Contract  
 
Carrying out on a pilot basis a road-maintenance-by-contract approach in two selected 
highway segments of the provincial highway network.  
 
Part D: Institutional Strengthening Program 
 
Carrying out an institutional strengthening program to include: 
 
1. 
a study on technological options for the recycling of pavement materials when a 
pavement needs to be rehabilitated; 
 
2. 
provision of technical assistance for implementing Part C of the Project;  
 
3. 
preparation of standardized environmental specifications for road civil works; 
 
4. 
support to the Anhui Highway Administration Bureau in implementing the  
enhanced Chinese Pavement Management System (CPMS) in Anhui Province; 
 
5. 
analysis of socio-economic impacts of the roads investments under Parts A and B 
of the Project; and 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
6. 
training programs for selected staff of APCD and city and county highway 
bureaus,  focusing on: overseas training in road management, overseas training 
on improved technologies for the use of recycled pavement materials, road 
safety, project management, environmental supervision, environmental design 
and construction of scenic/ecological routes, highway planning and design, and 
highway information systems management, and training to communities along 
the S322 road to be upgraded under the Project on road safety and on starting or 
developing productive activities to help them capitalize the benefits of improved 
accessibility across the corridor. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangement; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.
 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1.
 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
the following principal terms:  
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period 
of twenty six (26) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years. 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(iv) 
Front-end Fee shall be charged at a rate equal to the rate paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to this 
Schedule.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
semester (covering the period of January-June and July-December, respectively), 
and shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank by February 15 and  
August 15 of each year, commencing on August 15, 2008. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.   
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Works
.
All works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.   
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works
 
(a) 
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding which may be used for works.  The 
Page  9
-
8
-
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
t
hose set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s 
Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the 
People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be made 
in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days 
shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in 
such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline 
for such submission.   
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower
’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of works if they can 
establish that they: (i) are legally and financially autonomous; 
(ii) operate under commercial law; and (iii) are not a dependent 
agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procu
rement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  11
-
10
-
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used
 for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(b) Individual 
Consultant 
 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for works procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures 
regardless of their estimated cost; (b) each contract for works procured under 
National Competitive Bidding procedures estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$5,000,000 or more; (c) all contracts for works under Part C of the Project 
regardless of its contract cost; (d) the first contract for works procured under 
shopping procedures regardless of its contract cost; (e) each contract for 
consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000
 
or more for 
firms; and (f) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more for individuals.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General 
 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category inclusive of taxes. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(1) 
Civil Works under Parts A, B 
and C of the Project 
 
198,450,000 60% 
(2) 
Consultants’ services under Parts 
D.1, D.2 and D.3 of the Project 
 
300,000 100% 
(3)   Training under Part D.6 of the 
Project 
 
750,000 100% 
(4)  
Front-end Fee 
 
500,000 100% 
TOTAL 200,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2007, 
for Eligible Expenditures under any of the Categories. 
 
2.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
 
Page  13
-
12
-
ANNEX 1 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators referred to in paragraph A.1, Section II of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement consist of the following:  
 
PDO 
Project Outcome 
Indicators 
Use of Project Outcome 
Information 
Increase the effective use of 
the road infrastructure in 
Anhui Province 
Reduction in average freight 
rates along a representative 
sample of provincial and 
national road corridors 
 
Travel times on the 
rehabilitated or improved 
roads 
 
Assess overall impact of 
improvements to transport 
flows along the corridor as 
a
proxy for transport 
integration 
 
Assess improvement in 
time saving and 
accessibility of project 
affected areas 
Intermediate Outcomes 
Intermediate Outcome 
Indicators 
Use of Intermediate 
Outcome Monitoring 
Road Improvement 
Component 
Improvement or upgrading 
of about 320 km of key 
provincial and national 
roads located on the 
Central-Eastern and 
Southeastern areas of Anhui 
Province 
Road Improvement 
Component 
Increased traffic volumes on 
the corridors to be upgraded
Reduction in accident rates  
 
Assess effectiveness of 
investments in increasing 
overall capacity along the 
corridors 
 
Assess effectiveness of 
investments in addressing 
road safety issues along the 
corridors 
Road R&M Component 
Support to the provincial 
rehabilitation and 
maintenance program from 
2007 
–
2010 under the 
EFYP 
 
Road R&M Component 
Increased traffic volumes on 
the corridors to be 
rehabilitated 
 
Reduction in accident rates 
 
Percentage of AHAB 
budget allocated to 
maintenance and 
rehabilitation 
 
Assess effectiveness of 
investments in increasing 
overall capacity along the 
corridors 
 
Assess effectiveness of 
investments in addressing 
road safety issues along the 
corridors
 
Assess effectiveness of 
APCD’s program for road 
asset management 
Page  14
-
13
-
Maintenance by Contract 
Component 
Pilot on maintenance by 
contract 
 
Maintenance by Contract 
Component 
Application of alternative 
mechanisms for road 
maintenance 
 
Verify applicability of 
alternative mechanisms for 
road maintenance through 
the contracting out 
maintenance approach 
ISP Component
 
Institutional strengthening  
ISP Component 
Progress in implementing 
recycling approaches in 
road rehabilitation 
 
Progress in the completion 
of the milestones for the 
implementation of the new 
(enhanced) CPMS 
 
Enhanced knowledge and 
application of road 
management approaches 
through specialized training 
and study tours 
 
Assess progress in 
implementing resource 
savings approaches in the 
road sector 
 
Assess progress towards the 
application of new road 
pavement management 
system 
 
Assess progress in 
acquisition of knowledge 
towards the application of 
enhanced road management 
practices 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
Principal Payment Date 
 (Expressed as a Percentage) 
September 15, 2013 
1.220% 
March 15, 2014 
1.260% 
September 15, 2014 
1.290% 
March 15, 2015 
1.330% 
September 15, 2015 
1.370% 
March 15, 2016 
1.410% 
September 15, 2016 
1.460% 
March 15, 2017 
1.500% 
September 15, 2017 
1.550% 
March 15, 2018 
1.590% 
September 15, 2018 
1.640% 
March 15, 2019 
1.690% 
September 15, 2019 
1.740% 
March 15, 2020 
1.790% 
September 15, 2020 
1.850% 
March 15, 2021 
1.900% 
September 15, 2021 
1.960% 
March 15, 2022 
2.020% 
September 15, 2022 
2.080% 
March 15, 2023 
2.140% 
September 15, 2023 
2.200% 
March 15, 2024 
2.270% 
Page  16
-
15
-
September 15, 2024 
2.340% 
March 15, 2025 
2.410% 
September 15, 2025 
2.480% 
March 15, 2026 
2.550% 
September 15, 2026 
2.630% 
March 15, 2027 
2.710% 
September 15, 2027 
2.790% 
March 15, 2028 
2.880% 
September 15, 2028 
2.960% 
March 15, 2029 
3.050% 
September 15, 2029 
3.140% 
March 15, 2030 
3.240% 
September 15, 2030 
3.330% 
March 15, 2031 
3.430% 
September 15, 2031 
3.540% 
March 15, 2032 
3.640% 
September 15, 2032 
3.750% 
March 15, 2033 
3.860% 
September 15, 2033 
3.980% 
March 15, 2034 
4.030% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
Page  17
-
16
-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  18
-
17
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“AHAB” means the Anhui Highway Administration Bureau, a unit of APCD, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“APCD” means the Anhui Provincial Communications Department and any 
successor thereto. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“CPMS” means the Chinese Pavement Management System, a computer-based 
system for the management of road assets. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008).   
 
8. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means  collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
9. 
“EFYP” means Borrower’s “Eleventh Five-Year Program,” for the period  
2007-2010. 
 
10. 
“EMPs” means collectively: (i) the environmental management specifications in 
respect of the roads under Part A the Project duly adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entity in April 2007, referred to in paragraph 3, Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be revised from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank; and (ii) the environmental management 
plan in respect of the roads under Part B of the Project duly adopted by the 
Page  19
-
18
-
Project Implementing Entity in April 2007, and referred to in paragraph 3, 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.  
 
11. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the financial management manual in 
respect of the Project duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity in 
October 2007, and referred to in paragraph B.2, Section II of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement; as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“Local Road Section” means any road section out of the 1,480-km of rural roads 
under Part B of the Project, which is selected by the Project Implementing Entity 
to be improved and rehabilitated in accordance with paragraph 3(b) of Section I 
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and the term “Local Road Sections” 
means collectively all the Local Road Section. 
 
13. 
“PEO” means the World Bank Project Executing Office established within 
APCD in March 1997 for purposes of coordinating World Bank-assisted projects 
implementation, process and authorize disbursements, manage procurement, and 
monitor implementation progress, and any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement.  
 
17. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Province of Anhui and any 
successor thereto. 
 
18. 
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan with respect to Part A of the Project, 
duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity in March 2007, which sets out 
the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the 
execution of such Part of the Project, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and such term includes 
all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plans.  
Page  20
-
19
-
19. 
“RAPs” means collectively the RAP and the resettlement action plans to be 
prepared and adopted by the Project Implementing Entity under Part B of the 
Project pursuant to the RPF and the provisions of paragraph 3(b), Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
20. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” and “RPF” mean the resettlement policy 
framework dated March 2007, with respect to Part B of the Project, duly adopted 
by the Project Implementing Entity that sets forth the resettlement principles, 
organizational arrangements, and design criteria in accordance with which 
resettlement action plans are prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3(c), Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
21. 
“RMB” means the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
 
