Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3039 
Project Name 
Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Roads and highways (100%) 
Project ID 
P099112 
Borrower(s) 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Anhui Provincial Communications Department 
Jinhuan Mansion 528 Tunxi Road 
Hefei 
Anhui 
China 
Tel: 86551-3623511 
Fax: 86551-3623530 
apcdpeo@mail.hf.ah.cn 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
June 12, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 23, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
October 9, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Anhui Province, with about 65 million people, is one of the most populous and densest 
provinces of China.  Its density
—of
about 460 persons per km
2
—is more than three times the 
national average.  The province is crossed by the Yangtze River and Huai River, and is adjacent 
to six provinces.  Compared to its more successful neighbors to the east and north—Zhejiang, 
Jiangsu, and Shandong—Anhui has lagged markedly behind in socio-economic development, 
with a GDP per capita around one third the average level of those three provinces and two years 
in reduced life expectancy (73 vis-á-vis 75 years).  Compared to those to the west and south—
Hubei, Henan, and Jiangxi—Anhui has more similar—though slightly lower—socio-economic 
indicators.  Within Anhui, there is great regional disparity, with most of the wealth concentrated 
in industrial regions close to the Yangtze River.
1
Anhui’s geographic location—right to the west of Shanghai and Hangzhou metropolitan 
areas—makes the province a natural crossing area for the interchange of industrial products and 
technology between the more developed coastal provinces and those less prosperous to the center 
and west.  In line with the Central Government’s initiative of “Rise of Central China” which is 
1
Agricultural activities in Anhui vary according to the climate zones that the province crosses.  North of the Huai 
He river wheat and sweet potatoes are grown, while south of that river it is rice and wheat instead.  Natural resources 
of Anhui also include iron in Ma’anshan, coal in Huainan, and copper in Tongling.  There are industries related to 
these natural resources (e.g., steel industry at Ma’anshan).  One of the famous Anhui-based corporations is the 
automobile company Chery which is based in Wuhu. 
Page  2
2
part of the Eleventh Five-Year Program (EFYP), defined as crucial for a coordinated and 
harmonized development between eastern, central and western areas, the Anhui Government has 
elaborated its own strategy of “Development to the East”, with an aim at expediting the 
incorporation of the various regions of Anhui to the comparatively more affluent regions of the 
Yangtze Delta, including those poorer areas (in the north and south of Anhui).  Transport is one 
of the priorities in that development strategy. 
 
Although the existing highway network of Anhui Province (of about 71,000 km) 
represents a sizable network in terms of kilometers per inhabitant, the average service level is 
limited due to the relatively low technical standards.  Compared to the six surrounding provinces, 
the density of the network (km per population) is above the average, while the percentage of 
paved roads (as a proxy for the quality of the infrastructure) is the lowest.
2
This results in likely 
shortcomings of the existing highway network in meeting future transport demand.  Other major 
issues of current highway network include: (a) connections on the east-forward corridors 
consisting of lower-class type of roads: (b) poor quality of pavement and weak resistance against 
disaster, and (c) unbalanced distribution of network across the regions in Anhui Province.  The 
Government of Anhui has then advanced a program for upgrading and reconstructing existing 
national and provincial trunk highway network—the so-called “515 Engineering Program”—to 
enhance the level of service and traffic capacity, while minimizing the needs for land acquisition.  
This program—which is part of the national EFYP—involves several concurrent actions that 
build upon the progress made in the last few years,
3
with highway and waterway investments for 
about US$13 billion, as follows: 
 
·
Expansion of the expressway network to the Yangtze Delta and to regional central cities 
in the Province, reaching a total length of 3,500 km (from about 1,500 km completed at 
the end of 2005), realizing the goals of (a) three-hour travel from east to west and six-
hour from north to south in the Province; (b) round trip on the same day from provincial-
governed cities to Hefei; and (c) expressways accessible to 90% counties (cities) and one-
hour trip to nearby expressway for all counties. 
·
Enhanced connections of this expressway network to the national and provincial trunk 
highway network, constituting a mutually supporting layout, which could provide a more 
effective infrastructure for the economic development of the province.  The “515 
Engineering Program” includes the rehabilitation and improvement of about 5,700 km of 
national and provincial trunk highways, with about US$1.25 billion allocated to 
improving road geometries, structural strength, and pavement roughness.  This program 
seeks to enhance the level of service of the existing road infrastructure under the direct 
responsibility of the provincial communications department while reducing the 
encroachment into scare land resources. 
2
Source: Ministry of Communications, 2005, “China Highway and Waterway Transport Statistics Yearbook,” 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China. 
3
During “the tenth five-year plan” period, Anhui Province increased investment and accelerated construction to 
realize rapid growth of transport infrastructure scale, substantially forming a comprehensive transport system framed 
by trunk railways, expressways, main navigation waterways and important airports. 
Page  3
3
·
A
rural roads program to support the expansion of the network towards ensuring village 
access to the provincial network by 2010.
4
·
Improvements to inland waterways to achieve 5,600 km of total mileage in inland 
navigation and 280 million-ton capacity of harbors. 
 
In parallel to that investment program, highway maintenance in the Province requires to 
be strengthened, with enhanced methodologies and tools for the programming of preventive and 
periodic maintenance activities and improvements to the implementation of those activities.  In 
Anhui, road condition is ranked using four levels of rating system, i.e., excellent, good, bad and 
very bad, and each level is determined on the basis of five attributes or road asset components.
5
Based on such a ranking system and measurements that are often carried out visually, statistics 
would show that about 80% of the road network in Anhui is in good or excellent condition.  This 
assessment however appears optimistic and has to be adjusted to take into account the 
particularities of each factor and the higher importance of the pavement condition as key element 
when measuring overall road condition; also the fact that Anhui Provincial Communications 
Department’s (APCD) current plan is to improve/rehabilitate about 5,700 km of 
national/provincial roads seems to suggest that more than half of the national/provincial network 
is in less than fair condition.  Based on the above considerations, an estimate of the condition of 
the national and provincial network would indicate that only up to 46% are in good and fair 
conditions.  Enhanced measurement and a cutting-edge management system—which would 
improve from the older version of the Chinese Pavement Management System (CPMS) with 
limited analytical capabilities—would allow better assessment of road conditions and optimal 
programming of maintenance activities. 
 
In addition, currently, maintenance activities are carried out through the so-called 
maintenance stations composed of APCD own-administration (force-account) labor.  This 
mechanism appears to have room for improvement, particularly through the establishment of 
incentive-based contractual relationships.  The APCD is aware of the importance of maintenance 
and seeks to establish improved road management and maintenance approaches, alongside those 
currently being implemented for the control of overloading, more efficient toll collection 
mechanisms, and a wide-ranging road safety program.  The proposed project seeks to contribute 
to these efforts. 
4
As part of that strategy, the Provincial Government also intends to speed up investments for enhancing the 
condition of rural roads.  The construction program of 
“bitumen (cement) road accessible to every village” has been 
started in 2006.  By 2010, it is expected to form a rural road network which connects with national and provincial 
trunk highways, complies with rural socio-economic development, and meets living and production demands of 
rural populations.  Investment on rural roads is expected to reach US$2.25 billion, through support to the 
(re)construction and improvement of about 60,000 km of rural roads and realizing the goal of 80% of administrative 
villages having access to a paved road. 
5
The five attributes are: (a) pavement condition; (b) roadbed and sub-grade condition; (c) bridge and culvert 
condition; (d) safety facilities along the road; and (e) landscaping.  Each of these attributes is assigned a weighting 
factor in the overall assessment. 
Page  4
4
2. Objectives 
 
The project aims to increase the effective use of the road infrastructure in the Anhui 
Province to support its social and economic development, as evidenced by the increase in the 
flows of passenger and freight traffic along key corridors across the province at lower costs and 
with improved safety.  The objective would be achieved through priority interventions to 
improve the condition of the roads across the province, pilot more efficient initiatives for road 
maintenance, and enhancements to the programming and management capacity of APCD, 
towards optimizing the use of resources for the upkeep of road assets. 
 
The assessment of the achievement of the project development objective will be carried 
out through the measurement of the following outcome indicators: reduction in average freight 
rates along a representative sample of key provincial and national road corridors, and reduction 
in travel times on the rehabilitated or improved roads.  The results of the project will also be 
measured by another set of intermediate outcome indicators such as (a) increased traffic volumes 
on the corridors to be upgraded or rehabilitated; (b) reduction in accident rates; (c) percentage of 
APCD budget allocated to maintenance and rehabilitation; (d) application of alternative 
mechanisms for road maintenance and recycling approaches for road rehabilitation; (e) progress 
in the implementation of enhanced programming tools for the allocation of resources for the 
preservation of road assets; and (f) 
APCD’s enhanced knowledge and application of road 
management approaches through specialized training and study tours.  The proposed set of 
results indicators is included in Annex 3. 
 
The interventions being considered under the project are in line with the Bank’s FY06-10 
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) with China particularly under the second pillar where the 
upgrading of transport infrastructure, while improving network management and traffic safety, is 
singled out as an element for poverty reduction, inequality, and social exclusion.  Enhancing the 
linkages of the inland provinces to the dynamic coast is seen as a critical step to widen the 
benefits of accessibility to the larger population and, particularly, to its poorer segments.  
Ultimately, those interventions should help improve the productivity in Anhui Province, enhance 
its competitiveness, and increase the inter- and intra-provincial trade, which will consequentially 
foster the development of Anhui and the provinces to the west. 
 
In this respect, the project seeks to contribute to the higher goals of (a) improving living 
conditions across the province—particularly in the areas where poverty rates are higher—by 
enhancing the transport accessibility to economic opportunities and social services, and (b) 
stimulating higher economic growth in the Anhui Province by reducing transport costs within the 
province and between Anhui and, particularly, the neighboring provinces of Jiangsu and 
Zhejiang, to the east of Anhui. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Government of China has requested the World Bank to support the implementation of 
the rehabilitation and improvement of provincial/national trunk highways within Anhui Province 
and attain the full benefits of an efficient transport network by fostering its integration of villages 
Page  5
5
and towns within the Province and of those networks with its neighboring provinces.  The Anhui 
Provincial Government has further expressed its desire to secure a World Bank loan to 
complemen
t
APCD’s own resources in support of the “515 Engineering Program.”  As a result of 
the previous two highway operations in Anhui Province, APCD wishes to continue with the 
value added cooperation through the Bank’s support in financing projects that require broad 
strategic approaches and benefit from the exchange of international experiences and institutional 
strengthening mechanisms.  The Bank is technically and financially in a good position to 
contribute to the incorporation of up-to-date approaches and tools for strengthening APCD’s 
capacity in managing the national and provincial road networks in Anhui. 
 
4. Description 
 
Building upon the investments and activities accomplished under the previous two World 
Bank projects in the province and in the context of strengthening the current overall framework 
for the management and upkeep of road assets in the Anhui Province, the project will include the 
following components:
6
Component A. Road Rehabilitation 
[estimated cost US$217.61 million – 46.5% of the total project cost – of which US$95.81 million 
will be financed by the Bank Loan] 
 
This component will support the provincial rehabilitation and maintenance program from 2007-
2010 under the EFYP.  The Bank contribution will help finance eligible investments under the 
rehabilitation component of the program.  A list of 18 segments to be rehabilitated, for about 890 
km, has been evaluated and found acceptable in the context of the province-wide program of the 
road network rehabilitation.  Activities under this component consist of improving pavement 
conditions of the roads by resurfacing, specific structural strengthening, and limited adjustments 
to the alignment when required to improve safety.  This component includes the pertinent 
supervision activities of the rehabilitation works to be undertaken by local supervision firms. 
 
In the event that any resettlement might be required under this component, a resettlement action 
framework has been prepared.  Similarly, simplified environmental impact assessments and 
standardized environmental specifications have been prepared for their application in the 
rehabilitation works (as part of the environmental documentation for the project). 
 
6
The project costs for each component include physical and price contingencies and the percentages are calculated 
from a total project cost of US$460 million.  A front-end-fee of 0.25% has been included temporarily in the 
calculations although currently the World Bank Board of Directors has waived the fee during the current fiscal year 
(FY07) and until further decisions are made on this matter.  Since the project is an FY08 project, conservatively, the 
front-end-fee prevalent in FY06 has been included, and it will be adjusted or eliminated as necessary at the time of 
negotiations. 
Page  6
6
Component B. Road Improvement 
[estimated cost US$244.43 million 
–
52.2% of the total project cost – of which US$102.34 
million will be financed by the Bank Loan] 
 
Improvement or upgrading of about 320 km of key provincial and national roads located on the 
central-eastern and southeastern areas of the Province.  These improvements or upgrades would 
include in some cases the duplication of existing roads following the same alignment with 
specific bypasses in built-up areas (in order to minimize resettlement actions) or with short 
segments of new alignments if necessary to avoid difficult topographical conditions.  In two 
cases (roads S311 and S322), this component will include the construction of a limited number 
of kilometers to increase the transport capacity of the existing corridor or complete missing 
segments.  In addition, for road S322, this component includes the relevant complementary 
elements to make the road an eco-friendly road.  The supervision of the works under this 
component will be undertaken by local supervision firms and financed with local funds. 
 
This component is the only one that will require resettlement.  It will also include the 
implementation of the relevant environmental management plans.  The cost of the actions to take 
into account the safeguards requirements are included in the estimated cost reported above. 
 
Component C. Pilot on Road Maintenance by Contract 
[estimated cost US$1.87 million – 0.4% of the total project cost – of which US$0.80 million will 
be financed by the Bank Loan] 
 
Under this component, APCD will implement maintenance by contract approach in at least two 
highway segments of the provincial highway network for a cumulative number of 120 kilometers 
by the end of the project.  The maintenance activities will be limited to routine or periodic 
interventions within the existing road pavement width.  The final design of this component will 
be supported by a technical assistance, as further described below, that will help APCD with 
additional knowledge and analytical elements for exploring the alternative maintenance 
mechanisms as well as for the preparation and implementation of the selected contractual 
schemes.  The supervision will be carried out by local firms supported by the previously 
mentioned technical assistance. 
 
Component D. Institutional Strengthening Program 
[estimated cost US$4.09 million – 0.9% of the total project cost – of which US$1.05 million will 
be financed by the Bank Loan] 
 
This component includes the provision of improved tools for road management (technical, 
environmental, and economic) and a training program, as follows: 
·
a
study on technological options for the recycling of pavement materials when a 
pavement needs to be rehabilitated; 
·
the technical assistance for the pilot on maintenance by contract to provide the 
knowledge and analytical elements for exploring alternative mechanisms for contracting 
of maintenance activities as well as for the preparation, implementation, supervision, and 
assessment of the preferred contractual scheme under the pilot; 
·
the preparation of standardized environmental specifications; 
Page  7
7
·
support to APCD’s Anhui Highway Administration Bureau (AHAB) in implementing the 
new enhanced version of the CPMS, to be financed with local funds; 
·
the analysis of socio-economic impacts of key roads to be improved under the project, 
towards establishing an enhanced knowledge base of the impacts of road investments on 
the livelihoods of the population living within the area of influence of the roads targeted 
for improvement, through the incorporation of specific surveys and data collection at the 
time of undertaking the resettlement completion reporting effort; and 
·
a
training program building upon those activities previously carried out under the Second 
Anhui Highway Project, for staff not only of APCD but also of city and county highway 
bureaus, and focusing on: (a) overseas training in road management (in conjunction with 
the activity in support to AHAB in implementing the new CPMS); (b) overseas training 
on improved technologies for the use of recycled pavement materials (in conjunction with 
the study on technological options for the recycling of these materials); (c) road safety, 
(d) project management, (e) environmental supervision of road construction, (f) 
environmental design of scenic/ecological routes, (g) right-of-way management, (h) 
highway planning and design, (i) highway information systems management; and (j) 
training to communities along the S322 road to be upgraded under the project on road 
safety and on starting up or developing productive activities to help them realize the 
benefits of improved accessibility across the corridor. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 268 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
200 
 Total 
468 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Partnership arrangements  
 
Though project preparation has been carried out with the leadership of the APCD (and 
the technical support of its AHAB), it has also been coordinated with a broader spectrum of 
agencies involved in the road sector in Anhui, including the Anhui Provincial Finance 
Department, and the Provincial Development and Reform Commission.  This coordination will 
be maintained during project implementation through the exchange of views with these other 
provincial agencies in the context of the supervision of project implementation. 
 
Institutional and implementation arrangements 
 
The APCD (through the AHAB), with the support of the Project Executing Office (PEO) 
that is currently supporting the implementation of the ongoing Second Anhui Highway Project, 
will carry out the execution of the project.  The proposed project will be the third World Bank 
financed transport project in the Anhui Province and under the responsibility of the APCD. 
 
The PEO was established in 1997 within the APCD under the first Anhui Highway 
Project (1999-2005) and has been satisfactorily conducting day-to-day management of the 
Page  8
8
previous two Bank financed projects in Anhui. As a government organization, PEO has been 
authorized to implement the project. The APCD has agreed to retain the PEO over the 
implementation period of the proposed new project, with staff composition and skills acceptable 
to the Bank.  APCD will remain ultimately responsible for the monitoring of the execution of the 
project and ultimately responsible for its satisfactory implementation.   
 
Sub-Project Construction Management Offices (Sub-PCMOs) will be set up in each city
7
where project investments are expected to take place, for management and supervision of the 
project civil works (both rehabilitation and improvement).  These sub-PCMOs will be specially 
set up for management of t
he
World Bank project but will draw from staff of the cities’ highway 
bureaus.  These bureaus are affiliated to the AHAB (though staffing issues need to be agreed 
upon with the city public authorities).  They will be in charge of construction management, and 
APCD (through AHAB) will monitor their activities to ensure compliance with World Bank 
fiduciary and safeguards requirements and those included in the legal agreements. The specific 
duties of each sub-PCMO will depend on the characteristics of the road section within their 
jurisdiction and, where needed, they will count with the support of the relevant specialists.  They 
will report directly to the AHAB and the central PEO. 
 
The APCD, through the PEO, and with support from the Project Construction 
Management Office of AHAB, will be responsible for the procurement of the civil works under 
the project. The maintenance pilot and technical assistance components of the project will be 
directly under the responsibility of the PEO.  A project management manual has been prepared 
and adopted by April 30, 2007, clarifying the responsibilities and reporting requirements among 
the PEO, PCMO, and Sub-PCMOs, in respect of the procurement and supervision activities of 
the physical components of the project. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The proposed project represents the first of the recent highway projects in China without 
a
major tolled expressway as part of its components.  The less-complex physical characteristics 
of the investments reduce the engineering risks and provide a higher probability of ensuring high 
quality construction standards and completion of schedule.  Supervision efforts will also be less 
onerous—hence the use of domestic consultants to perform this activity. 
 
The long-term sustainability of the road assets, however, will depend on the design of a 
comprehensive maintenance strategy and program as well as the effective and timely 
implementation of the programmed maintenance activities.  Support is provided under the 
project to improve both the collection of data to measure the condition of road assets and the 
mechanisms used to incorporate the data into the revamped APCD management systems—
through the implementation of a new (enhanced) CPMS.  The goal of these improvements is the 
enhancement of the knowledge base in order to improve the maintenance planning decisions.  
Similarly the pilot on maintenance by contract seeks to instill more efficient maintenance 
practices towards an enhanced sustainability of the road investments. 
 
7
There are 17 cities (and prefectures) in Anhui Province.  The project activities are located in 12 of those cities. 
Page  9
9
Road maintenance budgets in Anhui are planned for an average 8% annual increase 
during the next five year plan.  However, an analysis carried during project preparation has 
shown that the budget growth needs to be higher if maintenance and rehabilitation requirements 
based on the actual road network condition are to be met towards improving the overall 
condition and serviceability of the network.  In fact, during 2006, the first year of the EFYP, has 
seen a substantial increased to the amounts allocated to maintenance and rehabilitation, from 
45% to 57% of AHAB resources, with an increase of about 34% in the amount allocated per 
kilometer of (national and provincial) highway.  On the basis of a preliminary analysis of 
network needs, the increase in the percentage of AHAB resources would need to be upped 
slightly more (by another 4% points) and sustained to ensure a steady good condition of the road 
network. 
 In this respect, a loan covenant requiring annual reviews of APCD’s road maintenance 
budget and plan has been agreed upon.  The goal of the review will be to assess the 
appropriateness of the allocation of resources between network development and preservation. 
 
Nonetheless, the fundamental problem lies not so much on the overall funding (as shown 
by the fiscal capacity assessment in Annex 8 which concluded with a sound rating for the 
province), but rather on the need for a more rational and scientific approach to road network 
management and maintenance.  Hence the project focus is on providing APCD with the proper 
tools to better assess the linkages between actual network condition and budget allocation 
requirements.  Another loan covenant relates to the timetable of actions for the installation of the 
enhanced CPMS and the gradual improved analysis and forecast of road preservation needs 
(further supporting the assessment of the budget allocation to be reviewed annually as explained 
in the previous paragraph). 
 
The types of roads to be improved or rehabilitated under the proposed project, with only a 
few tolled (and with tolls set a low levels given that they are at or below Class II), must be 
framed in a different dynamic in terms of the ultimate financial or fiscal sustainability of the 
investments compared to expressway investments with a secure (at least partially) stream of toll 
income.  The analysis of the overall fiscal framework at the provincial level (Annex 8) and the 
implications for the road sector exhibit a robust overall financial framework within the 
foreseeable future.  This provides a positive outlook for the sustainability of the investments 
granted, as indicated in the previous paragraph, key strengthening actions are implemented in 
APCD’s road management approaches and systems. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The proposed project departs from previous Bank highway projects in China with its 
exclusive focus on the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing road network.  Its design 
builds on lessons learned from similar projects in other countries as well as from the 
implementation of the previous two transport projects in Anhui Province.  The resulting lessons 
assimilated for project design are summarized below: 
 
·
Refocusing the sector agenda
.
During project identification and preparation the dialogue has 
emphasized the exchange of views on road asset management issues, seeking to refocus the 
provincial strategies from one with a large prominence on road construction to one that 
stresses management of roads assets and the serviceability of the network. 
Page  10
10
Institutional strengthening activities in previous World Bank projects 
The project has been built on the previous efforts by the Bank and other international lending institutes to 
strengthen Anhui
’s capacities in design, planning, highway operation, road management, and road safety. 
Particularly, under the ongoing World Bank Second Anhui Highway Project, the Bank supported the APCD
in: 
(a) appropriate measures and policies to mitigate the overloading problem; (b) carrying out road safety 
interventions (safety audits and black spot improvements); and (c) technical assistance on highway 
maintenance, organization and management systems.  During the preparation and implementation of this 
project, exchange of views and experiences took place on topics such as highway design standards 
improvement, construction quality, and road safety. 
·
Gradual approach to shift in sector focus
.
Changes in the overall sector approach need to be 
built gradually as capacity and financing conditions constrain what can realistically be 
achieved in the short term in terms of addressing maintenance and rehabilitation needs.  
Attention must then be given to key cost effective and appropriate solutions and to pilot 
initiatives that can create the demonstration effects that will encourage building upon those 
initiatives towards more encompassing shifts in sector approaches. 
·
The definition and design of the institutional strengthening subcomponents
 build upon the 
studies and subsequent actions carried forward under previous World Bank projects (see box 
below).  By focusing on those critical activities that complement previous actions and in 
addition have a potential to create a demonstration effect and further enhance key capacities 
of the APCD in managing highway assets (and in providing technical leadership to county 
and local highway entities), the scope of these subcomponents seeks also to ensure a strong 
ownership and commitment of APCD in carrying out the studies on time and with the 
expected application of their results.  Given the progress in streamlining road safety 
investments and (currently) addressing truck overloading, the new project refocuses on 
strengthening other road management skills, with an emphasis on maintenance programming, 
technologies, and contractual mechanisms. 
 
·
Treatment of project contingencies
.
The first Anhui project was finished with about 15% of 
the loan funds un-disbursed, hence loan allocations for contingencies require a different 
treatment than other used funds to avoid provincial entities to pay commitment fees on large 
amounts of funds that remain largely unused until greater certainty is reached in the 
estimation of the final costs of the various components of the project.
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Page  11
11
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
·
Engineering Feasibility Study Report of Anhui World Bank Highway Project III (Main 
Report), June 2006. 
·
Feasibility Study for the Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project, June 
2006. 
·
Environmental Impact Assessment for the Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement 
Project, April 2007. 
·
Resettlement Action Plan the Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project, 
March 2007. 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Aurelio Menendez 
Title: Lead Transport Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-0009 
Email: Amenendez@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  12
12
 
