                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2287



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-75110)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

     ANHUI HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                               December 12, 2012




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)

                       Currency Unit = RMB (Chinese Yuan Renminbi)
                                 RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.1581
                                 US$ 1.00 = RMB 6.3249

                                          FISCAL YEAR

                                      January 1-December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADRC = Anhui Development and Reform Commission
AHAB = Anhui Highway Administration Bureau
APAO = Anhui Provincial Audit Office
APCD = Anhui Provincial Communications Department
APFB = Anhui Provincial Finance Bureau
CNAO = China National Audit Office
CPS = Country Partnership Strategy
CPMS = Chinese Pavement Management System
CQS = Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
DA = Designated Account
EA = Environmental Assessment
EASTE = World Bank East Asia and Pacific Region Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
EIA = Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR = Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP = Environmental Management Plan
FM = Financial Management
FMS = Financial Management Specialist
FSL = Fixed-Spread Loan
FYP = Five Year Program
HDM = Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IC = Individual Consultant Selection
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
ICR = Implementation Completion Report
ITC = International Tendering Company
LIBOR = London Interbank Offered Rate
MBD = Model Bidding Document
MOC = Ministry of Communications
MOF = Ministry of Finance
Mu = Chinese measure of land area (1 5 mu/hectare)
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
NDRC = National Development and Reform Commission
NPV = Net Present Value
PAD = Project Appraisal Document
PCMO = Project Construction Management Office
PEO = Project Executing Office
PFM = Project Financial Management
PMS = Pavement Management System
PQI = Pavement Quality Index
QBS = Quality-Based Selection
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
RAP = Resettlement Action Plan
RIOH = Research Institute of Highway
RONET = Road Network Evaluation Tools
ROW = Right of Way
RPF = Resettlement Policy Framework
SBD = Standard Bidding Documents
SOE = Statement of Expenditures
SWAp = Sector-wide Approach
voc = Vehicle Operating Cost
VSL = Variable-Spread Loan

                                Vice President: Pamela Cox, EAPVP
                              Country Director: Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                               Sector Manager: Mark A. Lundell, EASCS
                          Project Team Leader: Mitsuyoshi Asada, EASIN
                             ICR Team Leader: Mitsuyoshi Asada, EASIN
                                   People’s Republic of China
                       Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project



                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 20
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 24
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 26
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 38
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 40
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Anhui Highway
Country:                China                    Project Name:             Rehabilitation and
                                                                           Improvement Project
Project ID:             P099112                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-75110
ICR Date:               12/03/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 200.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 200.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 200.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Anhui Provincial Transport Department (Former Anhui Provincial Communications Department)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/17/2006      Effectiveness:             11/06/2008       11/06/2008
Appraisal:            04/23/2007      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/22/2008      Mid-term Review:           10/20/2010       10/11/2010
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2012       06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                    99                   99
Sub-national government administration                                 1                    1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           James W. Adams
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Mark R. Lundell                      Junhui Wu
Project Team Leader:       Mitsuyoshi Asada                     Aurelio Menendez
ICR Team Leader:           Mitsuyoshi Asada
ICR Primary Author:        Xiaoke Zhai


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project aims to increase the effective use of the road infrastructure in the Anhui
Province to support its social and economic development, as evidenced by the increase in
the flows of passenger and freight traffic along key corridors across the province at lower
costs and with improved safety.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
None




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target   Formally       Actual Value
                                                Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval        Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)       Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Freight/passenger tariff (Corridor G104) RMBs/ton-km
Value                                                                          0.47 in nominal
quantitative or 0.45                        0.38               None            terms and 0.39 in
Qualitative)                                                                   real terms
Date achieved   12/31/2006                  12/31/2011         12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments        The actual value achieved 86% of the targeted reduction in real terms, though
(incl. %        fuel and labor prices increased about 59.5% and 82.9% respectively due to the
achievement)    global financial crisis and domestic stimulus package.
Indicator 2 :   Freight/passenger tariff (Corridor S105) RMBs/ton-km
Value                                                                          0.56 in nominal
quantitative or 0.52                        0.43               None            terms and 0.47 in
Qualitative)                                                                   real terms
Date achieved   12/31/2006                  12/31/2011         12/31/2011      12/31/2011
                The actual value was less than the target value but achieved 56% of the targeted
Comments
                reduction in real terms, though fuel and labor prices increased about 59.5% and
(incl. %
                82.9% respectively due to the global financial crisis and domestic stimulus
achievement)
                package.
                Freight/passenger tariff (Corridor Caijiaqiao-Tanjiaqiao-Tangkou-Tunxi)
Indicator 3 :
                RMBs/ton-km
Value                                                                          0.45 in nominal
quantitative or 0.38                        0.30               None            terms and 0.375 in
Qualitative)                                                                   real terms
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    12/31/2011         12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments        The actual value achieved 6% of the targeted reduction in real terms, though fuel
(incl. %        and labor prices increased about 59.5% and 82.9% respectively. The corridor
achievement) connected Anhui with Jiangxi, a less developed province.
                Average travel time on rehabilitation roads: Average increase in travel speeds
Indicator 4 :
                from initial km/hr values (passenger car)
Value
quantitative or 49.2                        15.9%              None            16.0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    12/31/2011         12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        The average increase in travel speed achieved 100.6% of the target value.
achievement)
                Average travel time on improvement roads: Average increase in travel speeds
Indicator 5 :
                from initial km/hr values (passenger car)
Value
quantitative or 42.0                        34.8%              None            25.0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    12/31/2011         12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments        The average increase in travel speed was less than the target value but achieved



                                               iii
(incl. %          72% of the targeted increase. To reduce accidents, traffic police enforced more
achievement)      speed control along the roads, which slowed down travel speed.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                 Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                   approval                     Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                  documents)                     Target Years
                  Traffic volume on roads rehabilitated: Average % increased from before the
Indicator 1 :
                  initiation and one year after the completion of the works
Value
(quantitative     3,021                      5.1%                None            7.50%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                 12/31/2011          12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments
                  Traffic volume on rehabilitated roads grew very fast and achieved 147% of the
(incl. %
                  target value.
achievement)
                  Traffic volume on roads improved: Average % increased from before the
Indicator 2 :
                  initiation and one year after the completion of the works
Value
(quantitative     3,361                      4.5%                None            7.31%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                 12/31/2011          12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments
                  Traffic volume on improved roads grew very fast and achieved 162% of the
(incl. %
                  target value.
achievement)
                  Accident rate on roads rehabilitated: Reduction in the number of accidents per
Indicator 3 :
                  thousand of vehicle-km-year
Value
(quantitative     0.32                       0.20                None            0.28
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                 12/31/2011          12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments          The accident rate decreased less than the target value. The other factors offset the
(incl. %          impact of infrastructure improvements as drunk-driving, overloading, weak
achievement)      safety awareness, insufficient safety education and new driver training.
                  Accident rate on roads improved: Reduction in the number of accidents per
Indicator 4 :
                  thousand of vehicle-km-year
Value
(quantitative     0.34                       0.18                None            0.32
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                 12/31/2011          12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments          The accident rate decreased less than the target value. The other factors offset the
(incl. %          impact of infrastructure improvements as drunk-driving, overloading, weak
achievement)      safety awareness, insufficient safety education and new driver training.
                  Application of recycling mechanisms in road rehabilitation: Milestones to be
Indicator 5 :
                  completed by the end of each calendar year
Value             n/a                        3 cases             None            5 pilots



                                                    iv
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                12/31/2011           12/31/2011     12/31/2011
Comments          Five roads were piloted with different recycling technologies. A Technical
(incl. %          Guideline for Anhui Highway Asphalt Pavement Recycling Design and
achievement)      Construction was completed and applied.
                  Installation of new (enhanced) CPMS: Number of kilometers with specified
Indicator 6 :
                  milestones completed by the end of each calendar year
Value
(quantitative     n/a                      11,100 km          None           9,501 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                12/31/2011         12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments          The CPMS was applied to the entire highway network in Anhui. The total length
(incl. %          of the highway networks was less than the target value due to the highway
achievement)      network adjustment.
                  Alternative contractual mechanisms applied for road maintenance: Cumulative
Indicator 7 :
                  number of km with maintenance contracts
Value
(quantitative   0                           120 km             None           120 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    12/31/2011         12/31/2011     12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Two performance-based contracts with a total length of 120 km were completed.
achievement)
                Enhanced balance of budgetary resources towards appropriate upkeep of road
Indicator 8 :
                assets: % of AHAB budget allocated to maintenance and rehabilitation
Value
(quantitative   57.0%                       62%                None           55.1%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    12/31/2011         12/31/2011     12/31/2011
Comments        The percentage of funds allocated to maintenance was less than the target value
(incl. %        because China introduced fuel tax in 2009 that completely changed the
achievement) anticipated fund growth pattern.
                Environmental manuals completed and applied: Milestones to be completed by
Indicator 9 :
                the end of each calendar year
Value
                                                                              Manual completed
(quantitative   n/a                         main-streamed      None
                                                                              and applied
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    12/31/2011         12/31/2011     12/31/2011
Comments
                A Manual for Highway Construction & Environmental Protection in Anhui was
(incl. %
                completed and applied in the province.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Evaluation of training (based on survey): % of positive evaluation
Value
(quantitative   n/a                         70%                None           82.55%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    12/31/2011         12/31/2011     12/31/2011
Comments        The satisfactory rate of feedbacks on training exceeded the target value.


                                                 v
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                        Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                      IP            Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                    (USD millions)
  1    08/13/2008         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  2    01/24/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  3    12/02/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                57.71
  4    12/24/2010         Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory           156.54
  5    12/24/2011         Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory           199.50


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Anhui Province, with about 65 million people in 2006, was one of the most populous and
densest provinces of China. Compared to its more successful neighbors to the east and north
(Zhejiang, Jiangsu, and Shandong) Anhui had lagged markedly behind in socio-economic
development, with a GDP per capita around one third the average level of those three
provinces and two years lower life expectancy (73 vis-a-vis 75 years). Compared to those to
the west and south (Hubei, Henan, and Jiangxi) Anhui had more similar though slightly
lower-socio-economic indicators. Within Anhui, there was great regional disparity, with most
of the wealth concentrated in industrial regions close to the Yangtze River.

In line with the Central Government’s initiative of “Rise of Central China? in 2006 which
was part of the 11th Five-Year Program (FYP), defined as crucial for a coordinated and
harmonized development between eastern, central and western areas, the Anhui Government
elaborated its own strategy of “Development to the East?, with an aim at expediting the
incorporation of the various regions of Anhui to the comparatively more affluent regions of
the Yangtze Delta, including those poorer areas (in the north and south of Anhui). Transport
was one of the priorities in that development strategy.

Although the highway network of Anhui Province (about 71,214 km by the end of 2006)
represented a sizable network in terms of kilometers per inhabitant, the average service level
was limited due to the relatively low technical standards. Compared to the six surrounding
provinces, the density of the network (km per population) was above the average, while the
percentage of paved roads (as a proxy for the quality of the infrastructure) was the lowest.
This resulted in likely shortcomings of the existing highway network in meeting transport
demand. Other major issues of the highway network included: (a) connections on the east-
forward corridors consisting of a lower-class type of roads: (b) poor quality of pavement and
weak resistance against disaster; and (c) unbalanced distribution of network across the
regions in Anhui Province.

The Anhui Provincial Government had then advanced a program for upgrading and
reconstructing the existing national and provincial trunk highway network - the so-called “5 1
5 Engineering Program? - to enhance the level of service and traffic capacity, while
minimizing the needs for land acquisition. The Government of China requested the World
Bank to support the implementation of the rehabilitation and improvement of
provincial/national trunk highways within Anhui Province and attain the full benefits of an
efficient transport network by fostering its integration of villages and towns within the
Province and of those networks with its neighboring provinces. The Bank was technically in
a good position to contribute to the incorporation of up-to-date approaches and tools for
strengthening the capacity of Anhui Provincial Communication Department that was
responsible for provincial highway development and management (renamed as Anhui
Provincial Transport Department during the project implementation). The Bank pursued an
innovative approach that introduced a performance-based contract in highway maintenance in
Anhui Province.




                                              1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project aimed to increase the effective use of the road infrastructure in Anhui Province to
support its social and economic development, as evidenced by the increase in the flows of
passenger and freight traffic along key corridors across the province at lower costs and with
improved safety.

The achievement of the project development objective was assessed through the
measurement of the following outcome indicators: reduction in average freight rates along a
representative sample of key provincial and national road corridors, and reduction in travel
time on the rehabilitated or improved roads.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and the key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The direct project beneficiaries were the users of the improved highways in 9 out of the 17
municipalities of Anhui Province and the inhabitants along these highways with safer and
more environmentally-friendly features. The indirect project beneficiaries included the
population in the entire province since this project not only enhanced the connection among
municipalities and with the neighboring provinces, but also increased the ability of highway
maintenance administrative entities in the Province to provide better services. Consequently,
the project’s interventions aim to lower transport costs, improve the productivity in the
Province, enhance its competitiveness, and increase the inter- and intra-provincial trade.

1.5 Original Components

The project included the following components:

Component A. Road Rehabilitation
[Estimated cost US$193.61 million - 47.3% of the total project cost - of which US$97.70
million was to be financed by the Bank Loan]

This component supported the provincial rehabilitation and maintenance program from 2007-
2010 under the 11th FYP. The Bank contribution helped finance eligible investments under
the rehabilitation component of the program. A list of 18 segments to be rehabilitated, for
about 890 km, was evaluated and found acceptable in the context of the province-wide
program of the road network rehabilitation. Activities under this component consisted of
improving pavement conditions of the roads by resurfacing, specific structural strengthening,
and limited adjustments to the alignment when required to improve safety. This component
included the pertinent supervision activities of the rehabilitation works to be undertaken by
local supervision firms.




                                              2
Component B. Road Improvement
[Estimated cost US$209.85 million – 51.290 of the total project cost - of which US$99.79
million was to be financed by the Bank Loan]

This component supported the improvement or upgrading of about 320 km of key provincial
and national roads located on the central-eastern and southeastern areas of the Province.
These improvements or upgrades included in some cases the duplication of existing roads
following the same alignment with specific bypasses in built-up areas (in order to minimize
resettlement actions) or with short segments of new alignments when necessary to avoid
difficult topographical conditions. In two cases (roads S311 and S322), this component
included the construction of a limited number of kilometers to increase the transport capacity
of the existing corridor or complete missing segments. In addition, for road S322, this
component included the relevant complementary elements to make the road an eco-friendly
road. The supervision of the works under this component was undertaken by local
supervision firms and financed with local funds.

Component C. Pilot on Road Maintenance by Contract
[Estimated cost US$1.95 million - 0.5% of the total project cost - of which US$0.96 million
was to be financed by the Bank Loan]

Under this component, APCD implemented the maintenance by contract approach in two
highway segments of the provincial highway network for a cumulative length of 120
kilometers by the end of the project. The maintenance activities were limited to routine or
periodic interventions within the existing road pavement width. The final design of this
component was supported by a technical assistance, as further described below, that helped
APCD with additional knowledge and analytical elements for exploring the alternative
maintenance mechanisms as well as for the preparation and implementation of the selected
contractual schemes. The supervision was carried out by local firms supported by the
previously mentioned technical assistance.

Component D. Institutional Strengthening Program
[Estimated cost US$4.09 million - 1.0% of the total project cost - of which US$1.05 million
was to be financed by the Bank Loan]

This component included the provision of improved tools for road management (technical,
environmental, and economic) and a training program, as follows:

   (a) a study on technological options for the recycling of pavement materials when a
       pavement is to be rehabilitated;
   (b) the technical assistance for the pilot on maintenance by contract to provide the
       knowledge and analytical elements for exploring alternative mechanisms for
       contracting of maintenance activities as well as for the preparation, implementation,
       supervision, and assessment of the preferred contractual scheme under the pilot;
   (c) the preparation of standardized environmental specifications;
   (d) support to APCD’s Anhui Highway Administration Bureau (AHAB) in implementing
       the enhanced version of the Chinese Pavement Management System (CPMS) in
       Anhui Province, to be financed with local funds;


                                              3
   (e) the analysis of socio-economic impacts of key roads to be improved under the project,
       towards establishing an enhanced knowledge base of the impacts of road investments
       on the livelihoods of the population living within the area of influence of the roads
       targeted for improvement, through the incorporation of specific surveys and data
       collection at the time of undertaking the resettlement completion reporting effort; and
   (f) a training program building upon those activities previously carried out under the
       Second Anhui Highway Project, for staff not only of APCD but also of city and
       county highway bureaus, and focusing on: (a) overseas training in road management
       (in conjunction with the activity in support to AHAB in implementing the new
       CPMS); (b) overseas training on improved technologies for the use of recycled
       pavement materials (in conjunction with the study on technological options for the
       recycling of these materials); (c) road safety; (d) project management; (e)
       environmental supervision of road construction; (f) environmental design of
       scenic/ecological routes; (g) highway planning and design; (h) highway information
       systems management; and (i) training to communities along the S322 road to be
       upgraded under the project on road safety and on starting up or developing productive
       activities to help them realize the benefits of improved accessibility across the
       corridor.

1.6 Revised Components

The original components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

While there was no revision of project components, some changes were made to engineering
design, project sub-projects, the implementation arrangement and funding allocations.

Technical design variations

The major technical design variations occurred during the construction of S322 (Taohuatan-
Gantang). Three major design changes led to the implementation delay and cost increase of
the contract. A tunnel construction replaced the bypass road design at the section of K11+200
and K12+400 since a risk of potential landslide was identified in October 2008. The design of
Taiping Bridge was modified due to the significantly-raised water level of Lake Taiping. A
U-shape reinforcement concrete structure was built to stabilize a landslide that occurred
between K7+244.773～K7+678 in November 2010.

Scope change

To satisfy the emergency needs of the Beijing Olympic Torch relay in Anhui in 2008, APCD
resurfaced the Jixi Section of S215 under rehabilitation sub-projects with domestic funds.
Further works to the section were unnecessary. The Bank loan finally funded the civil works
of the remaining 17 rehabilitation roads and 7 improvement roads.




                                             4
Implementation arrangement

In addition to the original implementation arrangement, AHAB specially established a Chief
Supervision Engineer Office (CSEO) to enhance the supervision of the project
implementation in 12 cities/prefectures, provide technical assistance to the resident engineers,
and ensure consistency and quality of the technical solutions applied across the 24 roads.
This includes the treatment of environmental mitigation measures and management plans, the
application of safety regulations, and the review of possible work variations. CSEO played an
important role in the project management, particularly on the construction management,
progress control and design variation management.

Funding allocation

At the final withdrawal application, about US$470,152 was reallocated from Category 2 and
3 to fund the eligible expenditures under Category 1 upon the Bank’s no-objection on May
30, 2012. This was to fully utilize the remaining fund under Category 2 (Consultant’s
Services) and Category 3 (Training) for Category 1 (Civil Works) to disburse the entire
amount from the Loan.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project responded to Anhui highway sector’s priorities, for which it was critical to have a
full commitment of APCD to ensure smooth implementation. Four components of the project
targeted key aspects of improving the service level of the highways and the maintenance
management capacity to jointly help realize the project objective — the effective use of the
road infrastructure in Anhui province. Components A and B focused on directly improving
the pavement conditions, Component C assisted to maintain the road infrastructures in an
efficient way by introducing performance-based contracting, and Component D aimed to
strengthen management capacity in key areas such as asphalt pavement recycling
technologies, environment design and supervision, and highway management information
systems.

Project implementation design was complex. The civil works of 24 roads of Component A
and B were divided into 55 contracts that dispersed in 12 cities/prefectures. In addition,
highway maintenance through performance-based contracting was a new approach in Anhui
province. Hence, the quality implementation of all the contracts required strong management
ability of the implementing agency and support from the higher level management of APCD.
Still, the completion was within the capability of APCD as it had implemented earlier Bank-
financed projects.

The project’s design was built on lessons learned from similar projects in other provinces as
well as the previous two transport projects in Anhui Province. It departed from previous
Bank-financed highway projects in China with its exclusive focus on the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the existing road network, stressed the management of roads assets and the
serviceability of the network, considered the challenge of changes in the overall sector
approaches in a short timeframe, took a gradual approach through pilot activities, and paid



                                               5
attention to the full disbursement of the Bank loan at preparation stage to avoid the situation
of about 15% of the loan funds un-disbursed in the first Anhui project.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation progress of the project was smooth. Forty three out of 55 civil works
contracts and most of the Institutional Strengthening Program were completed with
satisfactory quality one year before the closing date, and the remaining activities were fully
completed by May 2012. The disbursement was way ahead of the scheduled pace. Several
factors contributed to this achievement. First, the Project Executing Office (PEO) and APCD
had implemented the two Bank-financed projects prior to this project. They were familiar
with the Bank’s policies and procedures. Second, AHAB utilized the existing sophisticated
administration system, fully engaged the 12 local city/prefecture highway administration
bureaus (decentralized units of the AHAB and where the actual road rehabilitation and
improvement works took place) in project implementation, and assigned experienced staff to
form the Sub-Project Construction Management Offices (Sub-PCMOs). Third, AHAB
established a Chief Supervision Engineer Office to enhance the supervision of project
implementation and to provide technical assistance to the resident engineers and Sub-PCMOs.
This was critical to ensure consistent implementation quality among these rehabilitation and
improvement roads responsible by 12 Sub-PCMOs whose capacities were varied. Fourth, the
PEO and AHAB kept a good working relationship with the Bank team, which enabled a
constructive discussion of issues that the project periodically faced. As a result, the
procurement of the civil work contracts started before the end of 2007 and the construction of
the first batch of civil works commenced soon after project approval. The implementation of
most civil works contracts progressed well.

One issue encountered in the implementation of civil work was that low contract price
increased the difficulty of project management. Since many contractors in China were not
familiar with the Bank procurement policy, they often underestimated the contract risk and
quoted a low price. AHAB made a good effort to handle this kind of situation during project
implementation. After 7 months of stagnancy and communication, the contractor of Contract
No. 9.2 (S211) terminated the contract due to heavy losses and AHAB had to find another
contractor to complete the remaining works. The lowest bidder of Contract No.21.1 (S322)
also expressed intention to drop the contract at contract negotiation stage because of
extremely low bid price and construction challenges. Compared to the second lowest bidder,
AHAB believed the lowest bidder had stronger capacity to build this technically-difficult and
environmentally-sensitive road. So AHAB went through a hard contract negotiation to sign
the contract.

Two performance-based maintenance contracts were successfully implemented, and the
comparative advantage of performance-based contract in road asset management were noted
in APCD’s report. However, a two-year contract period was considered too short for
contractors to lower maintenance cost and manage for long-term results. AHAB now
suggests extending the performance-based road maintenance contract period to at least 4
years in the future. Similarly, the size of the pilot maintenance works, two roads of 60 km,
was small to take the advantage of scale effect and allow contractors to reduce their fixed
costs.




                                              6
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

When setting the monitoring indicator targets, the impact of external factors was not fully
assessed. For example, freight/passenger tariffs reduction was used to measure the outcome
of road infrastructure improvement. However, fuel and labor are two important inputs for the
provision of trucking and bus services, which are beyond the control of the project. To
counter the negative impact of the global financial crisis in 2008, the Government launched a
huge stimulus package that led to the increase in fuel and labor prices about 59.5% and
82.9% respectively. In addition, the Government raised the minimum salary level to promote
social cohesion and to share development benefits, which also contributed to a large increase
in the labor costs.

Average speed as an indicator of the project outcome of road rehabilitation and improvement
was also not designed to take into account potential exogenous factors, including policy
responses. For example, in recent years, the Government paid more attention to traffic
accident control, and as a result, more traffic police were deployed to enforce speed control
along the roads, which resulted in slow driving. In addition, the traffic volume grew much
faster than expected, which also slowed down travel speed, although the roads were not
congested.

The accident rate was also monitored to measure intermediate outcomes of rehabilitated and
improved roads. This indicator assumed that traffic accidents would be reduced as a result of
improvement of pavement condition and safety facilities. However, other factors beyond the
project interventions that could offset the impact of infrastructure improvements, such as
drunk-driving, overloading, weak safety awareness, insufficient safety education and driver
training were not taken into account when planning this PDO indicator. In addition, private
car ownership in Anhui province grew rapidly in the past years and the new drivers became a
major risk to road safety. Clearly, to define the target value appropriately, those factors
should have been considered in addition to road infrastructure improvements.
Though the M&E system was fully implemented in terms of monitoring, it was inadequate
for proper evaluation of the project. It also was not able to be utilized adequately for
adjusting project activities given this inadequacy for evaluation. Nevertheless, these
drawbacks of the M&E system has made APCD realize the wider issues associated with the
road maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement. Accordingly, APCD has utilized these
results as inputs to policy formulation and management decision-making processes more
widely than before the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement was satisfactorily in compliance with the Bank policies and completed as
scheduled. As noted in Section 1.7, contract management for this project was a challenging
job because so many contracts and Sub-PCMOs were involved. AHAB issued on Dec.17,
2007 a document, “Implementation Procedures of Variation Management on World Bank
Financed Anhui Highway III Project?, that stated in detail the situation and thresholds of
variation approval, the responsibility of relevant parties in processing variations, the flow
chart of procedures, standard forms and examples of common variation. This document was
an effective tool for contract management.



                                             7
Fiduciary compliance was satisfactory. Project financial management met acceptable
standards during the implementation. Comments of independent auditors on annual financial
statements, when they arose, were satisfactorily clarified and corrected.

Compliance with the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was satisfactory. In addition to
EMP, a Standardized Environmental Specification was developed by consultant as a part of
Component D: Institutional Strengthening Program, and a training on “Low-Volume Roads
Engineering: Best Management Practices? was arranged by the Bank and delivered to the
staffs of APCD and its affiliated subsidiaries to enhance the environment management
capacity. Negative environment impacts caused by construction activities were satisfactorily
mitigated in compliance with the EMP.

Resettlement implementation was satisfactory. The compensation for land and households
were fully paid according to the agreements, and the compensation rates for houses and
attachments were complied with the rates in the Resettlement Plan (RP). In addition to the
above resettlement measures, some affected villagers were provided job opportunities in
project construction to increase incomes. Based on the result of resettlement follow-up study
on 264 households, living standards and production conditions of the households affected by
land acquisition and resettlement were improved as a result of the implementation of the
Resettlement Plan and the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

All the rehabilitated and improved roads as well as the two pilot maintenance road sections
have been handed over to local highway bureaus that are responsible for highways operation
and maintenance. These bureaus have established organizations, staffs, experience, and the
other resources to fulfill their operation and maintenance duties.

The successful experience of performance-based contracting in Component C and the
application of the Chinese Pavement Management Systems (CPMS) in Component D have
inspired APCD to continually explore an effective way of maintaining its existing highway
network at a satisfactory service level with limited funds, and improve highway asset
management in the province.

China’s development strategy will gradually shift from focusing on growth rate to growth
quality. Following this strategy, local governments have started paying more attention to the
provision of quality service by maintaining their highway infrastructure. The project’s
knowledge achievements are expected to enhance the efficient use of the available
maintenance budget to increase the efficiency of operation and maintenance.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project's development objective remained highly relevant to the development priority of
China. After decades of heavy investments in highway infrastructures, the total length of
highways in China exceeded 4 million km by the end of 2010. In its 12th Five Year
Development Outline for Highway Maintenance Management (2011-2015), the Ministry of



                                             8
Transport identified five main issues in highway maintenance in China, including growing
gap of maintenance funds, less optimum highway network, strong demand for service
improvements, a serious situation of road safety and weak road maintenance management.
All of these issues were addressed by the project in the design of its components and
contributed to achieving the objectives of the provincial 12th Five Year Development plan.
For example, the highway network of Anhui Province was improved by completing missing
segments and upgrading low capacity roads. Asphalt pavement recycling technologies lowed
maintenance costs and reduced environmental impacts. Performance-based maintenance
approaches helped improve road maintenance quality and efficiency. In addition, the
application of CPMS enhanced road maintenance programming and decision-making
capacity in Anhui Province.

The interventions being considered under the project were in line with the Bank’s FY06-10
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) with China particularly under the second pillar where the
upgrading of transport infrastructure, while improving network management and traffic
safety, was singled out as an element for reduction of poverty, inequality, and social
exclusion. The project was also in line with China’s 12th Five Year Plan (2011-2015) that
focuses on improving the quality of life, rather than just the pace of growth, and pays
attention to balanced development. It is also consistent with the Strategic Theme Two:
Promoting More Equitable Development of the Country Partnership Strategy for FY2013 -
FY2016, particularly the outcome 2.3 Enhancing Opportunities in Rural Areas and the
outcome 2.4 Improving Transport Connectivity For More Balanced Regional Development.
Though the relevance of the objectives was substantial and implementation was completed as
planned (on schedule and completing all investments), it is difficult to adequately assess
design given the inadequacies of the M&E system. As a result, the assessment of the
relevance of objectives, design, and implementation is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO was to increase the effective use of the road infrastructure in the Anhui Province to
support its social and economic development, as evidenced by the increase in the flow of
passenger and freight traffic along key corridors across the province at lower costs and with
improved safety. The PDO indicators for average increases in travel speeds were met for
rehabilitation roads and achieved at a 72% level for improvement roads. For freight and
passenger tariff rates, the targets were not reached in nominal terms (with current prices
reflecting inflation) owing to significant exogenous input price increases. However, when
evaluated in constant 2006 prices, the end of project targets for tariff rates were largely met
as shown in the Results Framework Analysis (in the Project Data Sheet).

Intermediate outcome targets for traffic volume (ADT), application of recycling mechanisms
in road maintenance, installation of enhanced CPMS, maintenance outsourcing, and
environmental manual development were all reached or met to a level of 86%. However
reduction in road accident rates and the AHAB budget allocation increase for maintenance
and rehabilitation were met only at levels of 13-33% of the target levels. As discussed in
Section 2.3, these indicators that were not achieved had design issues and were impacted by
unforeseeable policy changes. The impacts of the project interventions are discussed
separately below. Overall, given the range of achievements of PDO and intermediate
outcome indicators, achievement of the PDO is rated Moderately Satisfactory.



                                              9
Support social and economic development in Anhui

One additional indicator of the project’s support to social and economic development was
developed by a follow-up study that found that the average income of ten thousand people
along highway G205 increased from RMB1,500 in 2007 to RMB 6,500 in 2011. Road
improvement and the application of the key institutional developments achieved by the
project clearly contributed to this increase (as well as the resettlement actions made by the
project to the project affected people (see Section 3.5 (c) for related discussions).

Improve the condition of the roads across the province

As Table 1 shows, transport of good and passengers in Anhui has grown quickly over 2008-
2011, coinciding with the period of project implementation. Through this project, about 1,160
km of national and provincial highways were rehabilitated or improved to meet the
requirements of the national technical standards in aspects of pavement condition and traffic
safety facilities. These interventions increased transport efficiency and enhanced the
connectivity between prefectures in Anhui as well as Anhui and its neighbor provinces.
“Increase in the flow of passenger and freight traffic along the key corridors across the
province? was confirmed by the traffic volume increase to be much higher than the target
values in the intermediate outcome indicators. With these output achievements, the average
travel speeds have increased about 16% and 25% on the rehabilitated and improved roads
respectively compared with the baselines in 2006. Traffic volumes on the
rehabilitated/improved roads increased about 7.5% and 7.31% on the rehabilitated and
improved roads respectively, exceeding the targeted values of 5.1% and 4.5%.

Table 1 Good and Passenger Turnover in Anhui Province, 2008-2011
                       Unit              2008         2009       2010            2011
 Annual turnover of Billion         Ton- 62.84           419.72      500.49      612.32
 Goods transport by Kilometers
 highways
 Annual turnover of Billion person- 68.213               88.05       101.02      115.16
 Passenger transport kilometers
 by highways
Source: Statistics Bureau of Anhui Province.

Even with higher travel speed and more traffic volume, the highways became safer after
rehabilitation and improvement. The traffic accidents per thousand of vehicle-km-year on
roads to be rehabilitated and roads to be improved were reduced from 0.32 and 0.34 to 0.28
and 0.32, respectively, from 2006 to 2011.

Pilot more efficient initiatives for road maintenance

By the end of project, a market-oriented maintenance approach was introduced in Anhui.
Two highways, about 120 km in length, have been maintained by perform-based contracts in
Component C. At the end of two-year contracts, the road conditions were significantly
improved, which led to traffic volume increase and accidents decrease on the roads. The



                                             10
changes of the Maintenance Quality Indicator (MQI) and the Pavement Surface Condition
Index (PCI) in the contract period are summarized in Table 2 below.

Table 2 Road Quality Indicators
 Year                 2010                                   2011
 Season               1           2       3         4        1        2       3        4
 S318        MQI      73.3        73.8    78.51     87.6     87.2     88.9    89.3     91.5
 Yaozhong PCI         68.6        68.5    83.6      86       85.4     86.5    87.8     89.5
 S332        MQI      70.5        74.6    77.3      85.4     86.3     87.8    88.2     90.1
 Anwang      PCI      65.5        67.3    73.2      82.1     83.2     85.4    86.9     88.7

In addition, different asphalt pavement recycling technologies were explored on 5
rehabilitation roads in Component D, which included central plant hot recycling, central plant
cold recycling, and cement stabilized in-place recycling. (The other two proposed roads were
dropped after the site investigation result showed unsuitable for recycling.) The five roads
were monitored and compared in the aspects of quality, costs and construction management,
and it was concluded that cold recycling of asphalt concrete pavement had a competitive
advantage over the hot recycling in the cost aspect in this environment. The PEO is
promoting the cold recycling technology to other applicable projects after this pilot analysis.
The results and experience of the project have contributed to the development of Technical
Guideline for Anhui Highway Asphalt Pavement Recycling Design and Construction. The
expected savings of recycling application in Anhui is expected to be over US$ 72.7 million
per year.

Enhance the capacities of highway maintenance and construction management

The highway infrastructures and management capacities of Anhui were significantly
improved through the project. Various training and study tours were supported by the project
to improve the management capacity in the aspects of construction management,
environment protection, pavement management system application, and asphalt recycling
technologies. The China Pavement Management System (CPMS) supported under
Component D has been widely used by all the 17 municipalities in Anhui since October 2009.
Based on the survey data, the system has been used to analyze the road maintenance demand
and to propose its annual road maintenance plan since 2010. The Manual for Highway
Construction & Environmental Protection in Anhui was finalized by July 2010, which
integrated the international experience with local practices and improved environment
management in transport sector in Anhui province.

3.3 Efficiency

A conventional ex-post economic analysis has been undertaken for the 24 rehabilitation and
improvement roads. The results indicated that the investments were economically viable for
all roads, with EIRR ranging from 19.9% for S311 to 51.4% for S322. The overall EIRR for
all the roads was 30.2%, above the estimated 27% at appraisal. This is due to the fact that
actual costs were about 18.3% lower than the estimated costs and the traffic volume was
higher than the forecast in 2012. As a result, efficiency is rated Satisfactory.




                                              11
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In view of the Moderately Satisfactory ratings for Relevance of Objectives, Design, and
Implementation and for Achievement of Development Objective, and the Satisfactory rating
for Efficiency, the Overall Outcome rating is deemed Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Based on a survey on 217 directly-affected households and 64 non-directly-affected
households, the living standards and production conditions of affected households were
restored or improved after resettlement, particularly on housing conditions, clear water,
power and road infrastructures aspects. The household incomes and disbursements of both
groups have a similar trend and without significant difference.

As an example, Hexi village of Longmen town is located in a tourism area along S322. The
project resettlement office coordinated with local government to consider the opportunity of
agritainment when planning and constructing the resettlement houses, which helped increase
the incomes of affected households. Besides, with the support of resettlement office, a private
company, Huiding Ruoye, affected by the highway G205 (Tunxi-provincial border), has
expanded its production capacity and provided job opportunities to ten thousand households.
The average income per household increased from RMB1, 500 at 2007 to RMB6, 500 today
and it helps reduce poverty around the region.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

In addition to the Manual for Highway Construction & Environmental Protection in Anhui
and the Technical Guideline for Anhui Highway Asphalt Pavement Recycling Design and
Construction (produced in Component D), AHAB and Chief Supervision Engineer Office
also developed several project management guidelines for the project that included the
Guideline for Delicacy Management and Key Construction Technologies of Anhui Highway
Rehabilitation and Improvement Project, the Performance Evaluation Method for Anhui
Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project, the Method of Design Variation
Management and the Detailed Regulation of Measurement and Disbursement.

The Manuals and Guidelines developed by the project have been used in the other projects
financed by Anhui Province. For example, the Technical Guideline for Anhui Highway
Asphalt Pavement Recycling Design and Construction was officially issued and promoted to
all the highway rehabilitation projects (where applicable) in Anhui Province, and the
application of recycling technologies is given a priority at project approval and considered as
a performance indicator of energy saving evaluation.




                                              12
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The improvement of highway design and safety measures at town-crossing sections in the
project, which the Bank team emphasized the importance of and APCD promoted in this
project, was considered as a good practice and promoted in Anhui.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The main sustainability risks include the conditions of rehabilitated and improved highways
that may deteriorate quickly due to the lack of maintenance funds and effective institutional
arrangements.

Maintenance funds. The monitored results showed the lack of attainment of the target value
of resources allocated to maintenance and rehabilitation in 2010. With the expansion of the
highway network in Anhui, the maintenance cost will also increase in long run, which puts
pressure on the government budget plan. This risk is moderate for several reasons. Firstly, in
its 12th five year plan, China’s development strategy will gradually shift from focusing on
growth rate to growth quality. Following the strategy, local governments have started paying
more attention on the provision of quality service by maintaining their highway infrastructure.
Secondly, there exists a fierce competition among local governments to attract investments,
and the provision of better transport infrastructures are commonly recognized by local
governments as an advantage and priority. Thirdly, the wide application of the Chinese
Pavement Management System (CPMS) will help effectively identify the maintenance
demand and improve the maintenance plan and fund allocation. Fourthly, the promotion of
asphalt recycling technologies and performance-based contract has started to increase
maintenance efficiency and reduce maintenance costs.

Effective institutional arrangement. China is still in the transition from a planned economy
to a market economy, and further institutional reform in highway sector is expected. A
tendency is to decentralize highway maintenance responsibility from provincial government
to local governments, which will increase the demands on local governments’ administration
capacity. Anhui Province has an established highway administration system at provincial and
local levels with well experienced staffs and resources that can be well utilized and
strengthened to assure greater responsibilities at the local level.




                                             13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall development objectives were closely aligned with both Government and Bank
strategies at the preparation stage and remain relevant to current priorities of China and Bank’
CPS. These objectives were supported with interventions on key areas and clear
implementation arrangements to facilitate timely completion without compromising
environmental and social safeguard concerns. Lessons learned in the past Bank-financed
projects were taken into account in the project design, but design of the M&E system did not
take full account of a number of relevant factors which influenced project outcomes. As a
result, the rating of Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank team worked with the Project Executing
Office in a constructive way:
 • to ensure the achievement of project objectives and the compliance with safeguard and
   fiduciary policies;
 • to improve the traffic safety and implementation quality of rehabilitation and
   improvement roads;
 • to promote good practices during the project implementation, such as provision of training
   to villagers and partnering with local governments on environment protection; and
 • to solve implementation issues effectively and efficiently.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Throughout the project preparation and implementation, the Bank team took preventive
measures to mitigate risks, provided necessary training, timely responded to clients’ requests,
and took appropriate actions when major issues emerged. However, given the Moderately
Satisfactory rating on Quality at Entry, overall Bank performance is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory




                                              14
As in the previous projects financed by the Bank loan, the Anhui Provincial Government
fully supported the project, from preparation through implementation. It provided adequate
counterpart funds to ensure that the project would be completed in time for both the physical
works as well as the institutional components. The Provincial Government also fully
committed to the training program, and allowed it to proceed as originally intended,
especially the overseas training activities which were under tight control.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

AHAB worked highly-effectively and managed the project well, with completing all the
project components before the loan closing date. During the implementation, AHAB actively
coordinated with the Sub-PCMOs to ensure the quality and progress of civil works and the
compliance with safeguards. AHAB effectively dealt with the cancelation of a construction
contract and prevented it from delaying the completion of the entire project. AHAB also
prepared project reports in a timely manner throughout the project implementation period,
which provided detailed information, and allowed a close monitoring of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Strong government support prevailed throughout the project, and a very effective
implementing agency carried out both the physical and the institutional components on time
and with high quality outputs with satisfactory ratings for both Government performance and
the performance of the implementing agencies. Overall Borrower Performance is rated
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1 Project Design and Preparation

The monitoring indicator must be tailored with cause and effect relations between the
project interventions and the indicators.

As discussed in Section 2.3, monitoring indicator selection and target-value setting are
critical to measure the effectiveness of project interventions. Inadequate indicators distort the
performance results and lower the confidence on evaluation system. When project
interventions merely focus on civil works, freight / passenger tariffs and commodities prices
should be cautiously used as project indicators unless their correlation with the project
interventions is clearly identified and the risk of policy and market fluctuations is considered
since they may be affected by external factors other than the project interventions.

As experienced in this project, fuel and labor price rose rapidly and a global economic crisis
was encountered, which had dominant influence on transport price rather than that of road
condition improvements. Similarly, many factors may contribute to traffic safety. A fast
growth of new drivers on roads is considered as one of key factors of road accidents in China
in recent years, and speeding on improved roads is another key factor, which offsets the


                                               15
effect of physical improvement of pavement conditions and traffic facilities. Road condition
improvement should be integrated with other safety enhancement measures to reduce safety
risks and prevent traffic accidents, and the target value has to be designed reasonably taking
these factors into account.

It is necessary to conduct quantitative impact evaluation and/or economic analysis to isolate
the impacts of proposed project investments from the effects of other exogenous factors that
are expected to increase or decrease substantially during project implementation.

To avoid major technical changes and environmental impacts, it is critical to control the
quality of feasibility study and optimize engineering designs at project preparation stage.
Both time and fund for project preparation and implementation should be adequately
considered.

6.2 Project Implementation

The project management can be improved by introducing advanced IT technologies and
information management system to mange project progress and costs.

For the performance-based maintenance component, both the size and duration of pilot
contracts of the project were considered less optimal to lower maintenance costs and to
motivate contractors to make a long-term decision. It is recommended that the duration of a
contract be extended to over 4 years to encourage a long-term comparative decision and to
include more roads to increase efficiency.

In addition to road conditions, traffic growth should be monitored and considered as an
evaluation parameter in performance-based maintenance contracts.

The smooth implementation of the performance-based maintenance contracts in this project
was largely due to two factors — strong support from AHAB and extra efforts of all parties
because of its pilot nature. Though the performance-based maintenance approach has
achieved quite positive results, its promotion still faces institutional barriers, particularly in
China, including staffs’ reluctance to recognize the shift from public to private service,
slower response of contractors to natural disasters and emergency events, and the weak
position of contractors’ coordination with government agencies on law enforcement.

The Chinese Pavement Management System (CPMS) has been promoted to the entire
province, which assists the development of maintenance plans and fund allocation in the
province. However, the effectiveness of CPMS depended on the completeness and reliability
of collected data as well as timely update of the data. Currently, local governments rely on
manual collection of data and lack advanced equipment. More investments and training are
needed in this regard.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                               16
Borrower/Implementing Agencies have summarized the project implementation experience
that is attached in Annex 7. The Bank concurs with the conclusion that Anhui will benefit
from the capacity enhancement through the project in the long run. The
Borrower/Implementing Agencies have reviewed the Bank’s ICR and have no comment.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                           17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                           Percentage
                 Components                    Estimate       Estimate
                                                                          of Appraisal
                                            (USD millions) (USD millions)
Works
Civil Works(Rehabilitation)(Part A)                           162.837              191.219       117.43%
Civil Works(Improvement)(Part B)                              166.313              214.771       129.14%
Pilot on Maintenance by Contract(Part C)                        1.600                4.868       304.26%

Supervision

Supervision of road rehabilitation program                      4.530                4.924       108.70%
Supervision of road improvement program                         3.994                4.210       105.41%
Supervision of road maintenance pilot                           0.094                0.230       245.10%

Studies and training

Technological issues on pavement recycling(int.)                0.150                    -             0
Technological issues on pavement recycling(dom.)                0.150                0.213       142.04%
Foreign assistance to establish and supervise the               0.090                0.074        82.58%
maintenance pilot
Preparation of standardized environmental                       0.060                0.083       137.63%
specification
Strengthening of CPMS(Analytical tools)                         1.900                2.089       109.96%
Impacts analysis (as part of resettlement completion            0.140                    -             0
reports)
Training and study tours                                        1.600                1.384        86.50%

Land Acquisition and Resettlement                              12.749               26.865       210.72%

                              Total Baseline Cost             356.207              450.931       126.59%
Contingencies
Contingencies
                                                               53.293                   -              0
Front-end fee IBRD                                              0.500               0.500        100.00%
                       Total Financing Required               410.000           451.431*1        110.11%

Notes: *1. The actual costs are calculated by the exchange rate at the appraisal (1US$ = RMB7.65911).
        2. The estimated costs of civil works in Annex 4 of PAD are different from those in Annex 5 of
           PAD but consistent with the costs used for economic analysis.

(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                               Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                             Cofinancing        (USD        (USD        Appraisal
                                                              millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                   210.00      251.43        119.73%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                            200.00        200.00          100%
and Development




                                                       18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

            Component                           Final Output                         Original Plan (PAD)
Component A: Road Rehabilitation
National and Provincial Road        Final Output Length: 840.845 km         Original Plan Length: 885.6 km
Rehabilitation                      Final Cost: RMB1, 464.6 mil.            Estimated Cost: RMB1, 606.6 mil.
                                    Final Cost/km: RMB1.74 mil/km           Estimated Cost/km: RMB1.81 mil/km
Component B: Road Improvement
National and Provincial Road        Final Output Length: 320.6 km           Original Plan Length: 318.1 km
Improvement                                                                 Estimated Cost: RMB1,724.3 mil.
                                    Final Cost: RMB1, 645.0 mil.            Estimated Cost/km: RMB5.42 mil/km
                                    Final Cost/km: RMB5.13 mil/km
Component C: Pilot on Road Maintenance by Contract
                                    Pilot Maintenance by Contract for       Pilot Maintenance by Contract for at
                                    two highway sections of 120 km in       least two highway sections of 120 km
                                    total                                   in total
Component D: Institutional Strengthening Program
Asphalt Recycling for Pavement      Testing was conducted in five           Pilot study on technological options for
                                    sections (two sections for hot          recycling of pavement materials for
                                    recycling and three sections for cold   rehabilitation to reduce the
                                    recycling), and the completion report   consumption of resources.
                                    issued on Dec 12, 2011.
Chinese Pavement Management         The data collected and analyzed for     Support in implementing the enhanced
System (CPMS)                       9,512 km of the 17 municipalities in    CPMS in Anhui Province to establish a
                                    the Province. With extensive training   stronger analytical base to make
                                    programs, the system has been used      optimal network based maintenance
                                    by all the 17 municipalities since      and rehabilitation decisions.
                                    October 2009.
Environmental Specifications        The Specifications (Manual) were        Preparation of standardized
(Manual) for Highway Construction   completed by Nov 2009. The manual       environmental specifications to
                                    was finalized by July 2010 with a       streamline the elaboration of
                                    reference to the Bank’s seminar in      environmental impact assessments and
                                    the Province on “Low-Volume roads       environmental management plans in
                                    Engineering: Best Management            road works.
                                    Practices?.
Training                            The domestic training completed         Training program focusing on (a)
                                    with 1,230 person-months with a         overseas training in road management,
                                    total cost of RMB6.06 mil. The          (b) overseas training on recycling of
                                    overseas training completed with        pavement materials, (c) road safety, (d)
                                    32.2 person-months with a total cost    project management, (e) environmental
                                    of US$0.50 mil. The oversea study       supervision of road construction, (f)
                                    tour completed with 9.67 person-        environmental design of
                                    months with a total cost of US$0.22     scenic/ecological routes, (g) right-of-
                                    mil.                                    way management, (h) highway
                                                                            planning and design, (i) highway
                                                                            information systems management, (j)
                                                                            community training along S322 for
                                                                            benefits of improved accessibility and
                                                                            road safety education with 1,326
                                                                            person-months for domestic, 46 person-
                                                                            months for overseas, and 47.5 person-
                                                                            months for study tour.




                                                     19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic evaluation of the project covers all the roads rehabilitated or improved by
the project, including:
(a) Rehabilitation of 13 roads (totaling 17 segments, 840.845km); and
(b) Improvement of 4 roads (totaling 7 segments, 320.6km)

The analysis is based on the actual costs and updated forecast data on traffic volume,
vehicle operating cost, users’ time savings and reduction in accident cost etc. The actual
costs are showed in the Table 1 below:

                                        Table 1 Actual Road Costs
   No.                              Roads                      Investments (RMB: million)
                                             Rehabilitations
    1       G104 Chuzhou - Chahe                                                                                 59.28
    2       G206 Suzhou South - Huiyuan North                                                                   180.27

    3       G3 11 Suzhou Section                                                                                 59.96
    4       G3 18 Muzhen- Nanling                                                                                38.49
    5       G3 18 Dadukou - Yinhui                                                                               65.70
    6       G3 18 Yuexi Section                                                                                 102.92
    7       S 10 1 Hefei/ Chuzhou Border - Bengbu                                                               194.84

    8       S 103 Hamoling - Qingyang                                                                            70.51
    9       S2 1 1 Zhuping - Dashan                                                                             105.80
   10       S2 12 Huaining - Section                                                                            107.61
   11       S303 Suzhou - Provincial Borde                                                                      166.30

   12       S303 Huaibei Section                                                                                 51.52
   13       S3 10 Shouxian - Huoqiu                                                                             119.15
   14       S3 10 Huoqiu - Zhongxing                                                                             49.62
   15       S320 Changhe - Hengbu                                                                               101.36
   16       S321 Zhufan - Jiangkou                                                                               45.01
   17       S32 1 Fanchang - Boyangpo                                                                            52.45
                                                  Improvements
   18       S3 1 1 Chuzhou - Dingyuan                                                                           233.08
   19       S3 1 1 Chuzhou - Wuyi                                                                               187.89
   20       S322 Taohuatan - Gantang                                                                            206.91
   21       G205 Caijiaqiao - Tanjiaqiao                                                                        184.13
   22       G205 Tangkou - Qiankou                                                                               97.06
   23       G205 Tunxi - Provincial Border                                                                      101.24
   24       SI05 Chaohu- Wujiang                                                                                825.61
   25       Cost of Chief Supervision Engineer Office                                                             6.90
                                                            Total*                                            3,413.62

Note: The total costs include the actual costs of civil works, supervision, design, project management and resettlement.




                                                          20
The economic analysis result shows the actual economic internal return rate (EIRR) of
the rehabilitations and improvements of the project is about 30.2%, more than the EIRR
expected at appraisal. The net present value (NPV), at the discount rate of 12%, is RMB4,
224 million. The details are summarized in the Table 2 below:

                              Table 2 Economic Evaluation Summary
No.                     Roads                           EIRR (in %) at Appraisal    EIRR (in %) at Completion




                                                    Rehabilitations
1     G104 Chuzhou - Chahe                                                   42.6                         41.7
2     G206 Suzhou South - Huiyuan North                                      22.5                         24.5
3     G3 11 Suzhou Section                                                   27.6                         32.4
4     G3 18 Muzhen- Nanling                                                  23.1                         24.3
5     G3 18 Dadukou - Yinhui                                                 31.6                         38.6
6     G3 18 Yuexi Section                                                    22.4                         21.3
7     S 10 1 Hefei/ Chuzhou Border - Bengbu                                  27.2                         27.8
8     S 103 Hamoling - Qingyang                                              22.6                         25.7
9     S2 1 1 Zhuping - Dashan                                                23.8                         25.2
10    S2 12 Huaining - Section                                               40.9                         40.7
11    S303 Suzhou - Provincial Borde                                         25.3                         32.2
12    S303 Huaibei Section                                                   25.7                         24.9
13    S3 10 Shouxian - Huoqiu                                                30.3                         29.6
14    S3 10 Huoqiu - Zhongxing                                               28.1                         47.2
15    S320 Changhe - Hengbu                                                  30.9                         28.1
16    S321 Zhufan - Jiangkou                                                 29.6                         24.8
17    S32 1 Fanchang - Boyangpo                                              43.0                         44.6
                                                    Improvements
18    S3 1 1 Chuzhou - Dingyuan                                              18.1                         19.9
19    S3 1 1 Chuzhou - Wuyi                                                  16.8                         24.6
20    S322 Taohuatan - Gantang                                               55.2                         51.4
21    G205 Caijiaqiao - Tanjiaqiao                                           29.2                         30.6
22    G205 Tangkou - Qiankou                                                 31.1                         28.0
23    G205 Tunxi - Provincial Border                                         33.4                         32.7
24    SI05 Chaohu- Wujiang                                                   22.4                         26.9
                                   Total Project*                            27.0                         30.2

Source: APTD


The post-evaluation of the project, by sections and as a whole, shows that the road
investments of the project were economically viable.




                                                         21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                   Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao   Senior Highway Engineer                 ECSS5
Junxue Chu                Senior Finance Officer                 CTRLN
Fei Deng                  Senior Transport. Spec.                 EASIN
Carlos Ricardo Escudero   Consultant                             LEGLA
Yi Geng                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EAPFM
Jingrong He               Procurement Specialist                 EAPPR
Imogene B. Jensen         Consultant                              EASTS
Xiaofeng Li               Operations Analyst                     FEUUR
Xiaoping Li               Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
Aurelio Menendez          Sector Manager                         LCSTR TTL
Teresita Ortega           Program Assistant                       EASIN
Juan D. Quintero          Consultant                             SASDE
Jacques M. Tollie         Consultant                             EAPCO
Peishen Wang              Consultant                              EASIN
Hongkun Yang              Consultant                             EASCS
                                                                 EASTE -
Han-Kang Yen              Research Analyst
                                                                   HIS
Wenlai Zhang              Senior Transport Specialist            EASCS
Chaohua Zhang             Lead Social Development Specialist     SASDS
Supervision/ICR
Fei Deng                  Senior Transport Specialist            EASIN
Yi Geng                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EAPFM
Jingrong He               Procurement Specialist                 EAPPR
Yan Lu                    Transport Specialist                   EASCS
Juan D. Quintero          Consultant                             SASDE
Lynn Wang                 Consultant                             EAPFM
Mitsuyoshi Asada          Senior Transport Specialist            EASIN TTL
Ning Yang                 Environmental Specialist               EASCS
Songling Yao              Senior Social Development Specialist   EASCS
Xiaoke Zhai               Senior Transport Specialist            EASCS
Wenlai Zhang              Senior Transport Specialist            EASCS
Qi Zhu                    Consultant                             EAPFM



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                            0.5                     11.74


                                             22
  FY07                          41   218.81
  FY08                          17    74.57
                  Total:             305.12
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                           0     0.00
  FY07                           0     0.00
  FY08                           0     0.98
 FY09                           19    78.14
 FY10                           17    82.47
 FY11                            9    39.03
 FY12                            8    31.63
                  Total:             232.25




                           23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      24
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                   25
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



   THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA




           PROJECT COMPLETION DOCUMENT
                         (ABSTRACT VERSION)

                               FOR A


   CHINA: ANHUI HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND
            IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




      ANHUI PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
       FOREIGN FUND PROJECT MANAGEMENT OFFICE

                           OCTOBER 2012




                                  26
                                                             CONTENTS




1. Project Overview......................................................................................................................... 28
2.Organizational Institution............................................................................................................. 28
3. Project Objective Evaluation ...................................................................................................... 29
4. Project Design Evaluation ........................................................................................................... 29
5. Project Implementation Evaluation ............................................................................................. 31
    5.1 Rehabilitation Subprojects ................................................................................. 31
    5.2. Improvement Subprojects ................................................................................. 31
    5.3. Maintenance Pilot by Contract ......................................................................... 32
    5.4. Institutional Strengthening ................................................................................ 33
      5.4.1 Pavement Asphalt Recycling ...................................................................... 33
        5.4.2 China Pavement Management System (CPMS) ......................................... 34
        5.4.3 Highway Construction Environment Manual (Specifications) ................... 34
        5.4.4 Maintenance Pilot by Contract.................................................................... 34
        5.4.5 Training ....................................................................................................... 35
        5.4.6 Analysis for Impact on Project Social Economy ........................................ 35
6. Evaluation on Project Operation ................................................................................................. 36
7. Successful Experiences ............................................................................................................... 36




                                                                        27
                                   ABSTRACT
1. Project Overview
Anhui’s geographic location—right to the west of Shanghai and Hangzhou metropolitan
areas—makes the province a natural crossing area for the interchange of industrial
products and technology between the more developed coastal provinces and those less
prosperous to the center and west. In line with the Central Government’s initiative of
“Rise of Central China? which is part of the Eleventh Five-Year Program (EFYP),
defined as crucial for a coordinated and harmonized development between eastern,
central and western areas, the Anhui Government has elaborated its own strategy of
“Development to the East?, with an aim at expediting the incorporation of the various
regions of Anhui to the comparatively more affluent regions of the Yangtze Delta,
including those poorer areas (in the north and south of Anhui). Transport is one of the
priorities in that development strategy.

Although the existing highway network of Anhui Province (of about 71,000 km)
represents a sizable network in terms of kilometers per inhabitant, the average service
level is limited due to the relatively low technical standards. Compared to the six
surrounding provinces, the density of the network (km per population) is above the
average, while the percentage of paved roads (as a proxy for the quality of the
infrastructure) is the lowest. These results are likely shortcomings of the existing
highway network in meeting future transport demand. Other major issues of current
highway network include: (a) connections on the east-forward corridors consisting of
lower-class type of roads: (b) poor quality of pavement and weak resistance against
disaster, and (c) unbalanced distribution of network across the regions in Anhui Province.
The Government of Anhui has then advanced a program for upgrading and reconstructing
existing national and provincial trunk highway network—the so-called “515 Engineering
Program?—to enhance the level of service and traffic capacity, while minimizes the
needs for land acquisition. Anhui Provincial Government has decided to apply for
US$200 million from the World Bank and use it in Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and
Improvement Project (the "Project"). This Project including four components—Road
Rehabilitation, Road Improvement, Pilot on Road Maintenance by Contract and
Institutional Strengthening Program—is the third World Bank financed highway project.

The total investment of this Project is about 4.18 billion Yuan RMB, of which, World
Bank loan is US$200 million. The Chinese Government provides part of the funds, and
the rest is raised by Anhui Provincial Government.

2. Organizational Institution
Anhui Provincial Department of Transport (APDOT) is the owner of this Project. World
Bank Loans Project Executing Office (PMO) under APDOT is responsible for the
project’s preparation & implementation works and the coordination affairs among
different components, including procurement, supervision, environment and resettlement,


                                           28
etc. Anhui Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (AHAB) is in charge of local road
rehabilitation & improvement and Pilot on Road Maintenance by Contract plan.

Local Highway Bureaus are deputed by APHAB to establish Project-Site Management
Offices (PSMO) to manage the construction, because the project distributed in different
cities. These PSMOs draw main leaders and technical assets from the local highway
bureaus, and then allocate them according to the project’s scope and hardness. Four
departments—Engineering Technology Department, Plan Contract Department, Financial
Audit Department and Comprehensive Department—are included in PSMOs. Each office
has a clear division of labor, responsibilities clear and dispatches timely, which
effectively offers an organizational guarantee to the engineering construction.

This project uses domestic consultants to perform the supervision activity. It establishes
one Chief Supervision Engineer Office (CSEO) and several supervision engineer field
offices. Supervision works are undertook by qualified and reputable supervision units,
which are confirmed by the domestic competitive bidding method. According to the
contract documents of FIDIC items, specifications and drawings, the supervision
engineers take all-round control of the engineering quality, progress, measurement &
payment, security and environmental protection.

3. Project Objective Evaluation
The project aims at increasing the effective use of the road infrastructures in Anhui
Province to support its social and economic development, meanwhile reduce costs and
improve the safety by increasing the flow of passenger and freight traffic. After four
years’ execution, this project’s objectives have been achieved through the joint efforts of
participating units.

The main achievements are listed as follows:

 Increased traffic speed & volumes and lowered accident rates on the upgraded and
  rehabilitated roads
 Beneficial attempt at exploring a new maintenance mechanism offered by contractual
  maintenance pilot in Anhui Province.
 Application of asphalt recycling technology over the province
 Direction for standardized management of highway construction environmental
  protection efforts through the compilation of environmental manual in Anhui.
 Scientific decision basis for provincial highway maintenance management by
  popularizing the application of China Pavement Management System (CPMS).
 Technical quality and management level of numerous highway project management
  staffs have been increased through home and abroad training.

4. Project Design Evaluation
In order to create a harmonious society, promote the image of transport industry,
accelerate the optimization and upgrading of road network structure, increase the
integrated service level of trunk highway, build a transport environment of “smooth,
security, comfortable, beautiful? and insist on designed guiding ideology of “security,



                                            29
endurance, economy, harmony?, it is required to clearly understand the project’s
functional position and construction necessity then choose rational technology standards;
select reasonable route corridor depending on technical analysis, study, demonstration
and comparison in engineering and economic aspects between multiple schemes. More,
to carry out proper layout and design for bridges, tunnels, and subgrades & pavements
with overall consideration of landforms, geology and construction conditions within the
regions, it is adopted the mode of using existing roads as much as possible and upgrading
or newly building partial road segments. Finally, it puts forward a recommendation with
engineering feasibility and economic rationality, and to determine the reasonable
engineering scale through the comparison and demonstration on multiple construction
schemes.

During the design process, it raises some innovative, practical measures and plans in
aspects like road safety, road drainage, environmental protection and grade crossing
regarding to the project's characteristics.

Drainage Design: It is adopted various forms of side ditch, such as rectangle side ditch,
trapezoid side ditch, L-shaped side ditch, slab side ditch and pebble-paving blind ditch
for the consideration of characteristics in different projects & road segments and the link
with former water system. It is a way to guarantee the pavement’s smooth drainage. For
side slope drainage, chutes and cut ditches are installed to prevent slope surfaces from
collapsing led by water erosion.

Safeguard Design: The road safety measures of the World Bank financed Project III,
mainly focused on road section sharp turns, longitudinal slopes, roadside dangerous
sections, bad sight distance, junctions and market towns. Here are some examples. First,
outside trees in minor radius curves mislead drivers, so that these trees should be moved
to provide a broader roadside clear zone. Second, the goal of optimum interaction
between drivers and roads can be reached through guidance measures like setting up
delimiting visual marking & line-shaped induced mark and increasing roadside cultures.
Third, curves in mountainous areas would lead to bad sight distance, thus reflectors are
needed. Fourth, it is used different grade crossing designs to standardize the insecure
junctions. The design of canalized diversion for large junctions and the signal lamps
supported by traffic police department contribute to the traffic vehicles, which ensures
the security of vehicles and pedestrians in the junction. Fifth, topography differs from
plain rolling terrains to mountainous hilling terrains, therefore, designers need different
protection methods—warning piles, stump type fender piers, arched guardrails, imitation
wood & bamboo guardrails, wall buttress style guardrails and wave pattern guardrails—
on the basis of road and roadside danger classes, to coordinate with regional environment,
and reach the effect of “security, economy, beauty, nature?.

Environmental Renovation: Natural landscape along the road of the project is beautiful
and attractive. To avoid much destruction, principle is adhered that the best practice for
protection is to minimize destructive construction. Moreover, both sides of the road are
well-planted, making the road match well with the site’s natural surroundings.




                                            30
Dynamic Design Implementation: Design drawings are carefully investigated by
construction units and design units before the implementation of project. If they found
any problem in the drawings, they would give feedback to design units for optimization
and revision. Design units adopt multiple-step design mode in accordance with various
geological situations afterwards.

To conclude, the scientific and reasonable design of this project in line with highway
engineering technology standard, highway design standard and any other standard.
Moreover, designers’ thoughtful consideration, high-quality design drawing, timely
modification to problems that occurred and follow-up service works has given a strong
guarantee to the construction units. Materials about environmental coordination &
protection along the road and construction guidance in the design document have
facilitated the site operation for construction units. Some suggestions have been put into
practice during the construction period.

5. Project Implementation Evaluation

5.1 Rehabilitation Subprojects
The rehabilitation subprojects under the third World Bank financed highway project in
Anhui involve 17 segments in 12 national and provincial roads (G104?G206?G311?
G318?S101?S103?S211?S212?S303?S310?S320 and S321) with a total length
of 840.845 km, respectively locating in 21 districts & counties in Anhui under the
jurisdiction of 9 cities (Suzhou, Huaibei, Bengbu, Chuzhou, Liu’an, Anqing, Chizhou,
Tongling and Wuhu). Rehabilitation mainly aim at upgrading pavements & bridges,
recovering its traffic capacity, and conducting improvement to pavement & vertical
sections along the existing subgrade basically without involving new segments.

5.2. Improvement Subprojects
It involves 4 subprojects, namely, 7 segments in 4 national and provincial roads (G205?
S322 ? S105 and S311) with a total length of 320.6 km, respectively locating in 10
districts and counties in Anhui under the jurisdiction of 4 cities (Xuancheng, Huangshan,
Chaohu and Chuzhou). These subprojects mainly take approaches of widening existing
roads or optimizing their geometrical characteristics, improving existing roads in densely
built-up areas in order to minimize resettlement and land acquisition, newly constructing
some small segments or completing end roads to avoid hard topographic conditions as
necessary.

The Project consists of 24 subprojects with implementation in 5 batches. The first batch
including 8 rehabilitation subprojects commenced in December 2007; the second batch
consisting of 4 improvement subprojects began in March 2008; the third batch involving
6 rehabilitation and 2 improvement components started in September 2008; the fourth
batch comprising 1 improvement component (S105 Chaohu - Wujiang) initiated in
February 2009; the fifth batch is composed of 4 rehabilitation subprojects, which
commenced in April 2009. Currently, all the five batches have been finished. Under the
leadership of APDOT and PMO, abiding by the principle of “innovating construction &
management mode, promoting management level?, it fully pursues refine and


                                           31
standardization management in the construction. Construction units made good
achievements of controllable project progress, acceptable quality, no safety production
accident, no corruption case with their united efforts, in overcoming difficulties.

To minimize the construction impact on the local environment and to materialize the
sustainable development of transport construction projects, PSMOs always pay attention
to the environmental protection during the road construction period. They take actions to
reduce the adverse effect on environment, for instance, enact a good environmental
management system, employ full-time environmental management staff, and adopt
measures to slow down the environmental influence according to the requirements of
environmental management plan. After the joint efforts of APDOT, AHAB and PSMOs,
the World Bank provides a loan of US$90 million for environmental protection of this
project. Through the establishment of effective environmental protection system and the
adoption of protection measures, this project eliminates the environmental destruction
and minimizes the ecological damage.

The land acquisition and resettlement works of the Project focus on 7 improvement
components. It began in September 2008 and completed 2510.09 mu of land acquisition
and 31,194 m2 of house demolition. Based on monitoring and evaluation, the external
monitoring agency summarized that land acquisition and resettlement was completed in
line with Resettlement Action Plan by resettlement offices at all levels, and also
permanent land acquisition & house demolition were totally finished as schedule.
Therefore, the resettlement works are entirely completed. To guarantee smooth going of
resettlement works and realization of expected effect, related resettlement office as
internal monitoring and implementing agencies were set up by AHAB and local
governments in project implementation. By the principles of conforming to local
conditions, convenience to the living and production, resettlement works should fully
take advantages of natural resources, speed up agricultural structure adjustment, improve
irrigation conditions for cultivated lands, increase the land use capability, and provide
momentum for future development of agriculture to maintain the previous living standard
for immigrants.

5.3. Maintenance Pilot by Contract
Maintenance pilot by contract is a diversion of maintenance modes from traditional unit
price maintenance contract (UPMC) or direct labor service maintenance contract (DLS)
to performance-oriented road maintenance contract. S332 Anwang Road and S318
Yaozhong Road with respective mileages of 60 km are chosen as maintenance pilots by
contract in this project. Carrying out the design concept of “security, endurance, economy,
harmony?, adhering to the principle of taking actions according to local circumstances
and drawing materials from local resources, and considering regional economic & natural
conditions, it is adopted new technology, materials, equipments and workmanship in the
project to maximize the economic and social benefits and stick to the Life Cycle Cost
standard as well.

The roads are in operation during the design and construction periods; therefore, it is in
dynamic change. To guarantee the engineering quality, clients require designers to make



                                           32
the design drawing dynamically which smooth the implementation of this project. Social
economy in Anhui has been developed after making full use of Anhui Road
Infrastructures. Passenger flow and logistics in interprovincial crucial corridor has
increased and its security has enhanced simultaneously, while the cost has decreased.
Maintenance pilots have completed different types of maintenances including 120km
small, 34.47km intermediate and 21.44km heavy maintenances. Road conditions &
appearance has been improved compared with the previous one. No accident or related
complain has happened in this road up to now, which means service level of highway has
upgraded effectively.

5.4. Institutional Strengthening

5.4.1 Pavement Asphalt Recycling
Combined with the actual situations of technologies of asphalt pavement recycling
applied in 5 components (including G104 Chuzhou to Chahe Section, G318Yinhui to
Dadukou Section, S321 Zhufan to Jiangkou Section, S212 Huangdun to MaiYuan Section,
S303 Jiangsu Border to Suzhou Section) under the World Bank Loaned Anhui Highway
Project III, technologies of plant-mix hot recycling and plant-mix & in-situ cold recycling
are respectively applied in G104, G318, S321 with total length of about 24.87km and
S212, S303 with about 62.44km (of which 49.96km for plant-mix cold recycling, and
12.48km for in-situ cold recycling) as pavement asphalt recycling pilots according to the
characteristics of pavement distress in each component. It aims at drawing up reasonable
strategy to recycling technology, analyzing and researching on design methods of mix
proportion for recycling mixture, indicator and assessment systems for mixture's quality,
economy, and construction technology to form a set of recycling technology suitable for
arterial highways in Anhui Province. Through the application in construction sites,
analysis on investigation data and assessment on technical applicability of both plant-mix
hot recycling and in-situ cold recycling, it summarizes the economics of recycling
technologies. The quality requirements for new asphalt mixture can be totally reached by
plant-mix hot recycling mixture with proper design proportion. Compared with new
asphalt mixture, the performances of fatigue and low temperature for recycling mixture
are equivalent to it, while anti-rutting performance is even better. To fulfill the purposes
of recovering required pavement alignment and sections, eliminating the phenomena of
rutting on original pavement and irregular and uneven areas, as well as horizontal,
longitudinal and reflection cracks, the technology of in-situ cold recycling is adopted. In
addition, recycling and reusing old asphalt materials in pavement by milling, it is to save
in materials, protecting environment, reduce engineering cost and save cost during the
construction. The mentioned technology is promoted and applied. Meanwhile, the
compilation of Technical Guideline for Anhui Highway Asphalt Pavement Recycling
Design and Construction was completed by APDOT in Dec. 2011 in order to promote
this technology in whole province. The preliminary statistics showed that the recycling
rate of old asphalt pavement was over 90% in whole province in 2010. The research
achievements on recycling of asphalt pavement is awarded the third Prize of Science and
Technology granted by China Highway and Transportation Society and the first Prize for
Progress in Science and Technology granted by Anhui Highway and Transportation
Society.



                                            33
5.4.2 China Pavement Management System (CPMS)
CPMS has been fully utilized in 17 prefectures since October 2009. Based on the survey
data, the data collection have covered mileages of national and provincial arterial
highways，which have been used for analyzing road maintenance needs and assisting in
drawing up a plan for annual road maintenance.

The utilization of CPMS aims at coordinating highway management activities to make
the course of highway management systematization and scientification by the method of
system analysis and advanced computer technology. The targets could be reached as
following:

1) Carrying out objective evaluation and real-time monitoring on traffic situation, so that
take appropriate measures to improve road conditions, and keep the network service in a
good condition.

2) Comparing the impacts on road network, condition and service level due to different
investment (budget) modes, and set as the objective basis for investment application to
the government.

3) To consider and analyze various possible countermeasures, quantitatively predict these
countermeasure effect; on the basis of predetermined standards and constraint conditions,
choosing the most ideal maintenance planning and plan, reduce pavement life cycle cost,
and greatly improve management level and efficiency of highway maintenance.

4) As a communication tool with the government and the public, it could supply better
service to the society.

5.4.3 Highway Construction Environment Manual (Specifications)
The compilation of Manual for Highway Construction & Environmental Protection in
Anhui Province (the Manual) was completed jointly by international consultant Mr.
Marco Z and domestic consulting company ? Shanghai Ship and Shipping Research
Institute.

We believed that, the completion of the Manual with extensive application range,
absorbed advanced environmental protection idea of highway construction in foreign
countries and combined with China's national conditions and actual situation in Anhui
Province, can not only be utilized as environmental protection technical manual for
ordinary highway construction staff in China and Anhui Province, but also give reference
to expressway construction staff. Also, final version of this Manual won the affirmation
from the World Bank.

5.4.4 Maintenance Pilot by Contract
The study on maintenance pilot by contract includes the items of selections of
maintenance contract mode (PBMC mode) and pilot road segments, contract limit,
contractor's qualification, design optimization and approval, check and approval of



                                            34
tendering documents, supervision to the bidding course, contract negotiation, design
variation and evaluation on pilot achievements, etc.

Based on the topography in Anhui, two road segments are chosen as maintenance pilots
by contract with each mileage of 60km for this study. S322 Anqing Road and S318
Liu'an Road are respectively located in plain and mountainous areas. Both of roads share
common ground of individual municipal jurisdiction, similar traffic volume indexes, and
currently in poor road conditions which could be improved by overhaul and daily
maintenances. The research achievements mainly include a piece of technical
specification training materials, purchasing files, suggested maintenance contract and
standards for contractors selection in maintenance pilot by contract.

5.4.5 Training
Domestic training programs were fully completed at the end of 2011 with 1230.1 man-
months in total. And the overseas training and study tour programs were completely
finished in March 2012, of which training were 32.2 man-months and study tour were
9.67 man-months, with 82.55% satisfaction rate.

This project, through domestic and overseas training and study tour programs, has
improved the technical quality and management level of a large number of talents on the
aspects of professional technology and project management in highway project
management. And they have become technical backbone and leading cadres in the fields
of their department and profession, distributed in each field of highway transport sector in
Anhui Province. The achievements not only guarantee the successful completion of
World Bank Financed Project, but also play a pivotal role for the construction of highway
projects in other provinces and make outstanding contributions for all- around
development of highway construction in Anhui Province.

5.4.6 Analysis for Impact on Project Social Economy
Immigration Institute under Anhui Communications Vocational and Technical College,
as external independent monitoring agency, has investigated on social economy impact in
terms of project investment in 11 counties/districts involved in the upgrade subprojects
during April to June 2012. The results indicate that:

1) The social economy has maintained a sustainable momentum of development in
affected areas and it accelerated development speed and optimized economic structure by
fully using investment opportunities from engineering construction. The public have
benefited from engineering construction on the whole.

2) Through investigation and analysis, living and production conditions for affected
people have all recovered and improved after land acquisition and demolition. On the one
hand, although it suffered some land resources loss, it increased any other new
production and business ways by using compensation fund of land use and enhanced
efficiency of existing production resources. One the other hand, the housing conditions
were greatly improved, and also the infrastructures such as water, electricity, roads and
others were obviously advanced. The objectives of Resettlement Action Plan were



                                            35
realized.

3) The positive evaluation on resettlement works were given by direct affected people
and this project was accepted by most of affected people.

4) The contrast between before and after resettlement, regarding to their production and
living objective conditions and subjective evaluation, showed that affected people held
positive attitude to changes in their own production and living conditions. More, the
evaluation on resettlement was also positive.

6. Evaluation on Project Operation
After delivery and acceptance of completed rehabilitation and upgrade subprojects,
relevant individual prefectural highway bureaus are responsible for management and
maintenance regarding the operation of this Project. All the bureaus pay attention to
innovate in maintenance concept, take efficient measures, and improve daily, preventive
and comprehensive maintenances.

So far, the pavement is in a good condition after successive acceptance of each subproject.
The achievements of improving pavement quality, implementing auxiliary projects in
place and enhancing road anti-disaster ability have been gained. On the one side, it
lightened working capacity of maintenance units and reduced road maintenance cost; On
the other side, it promoted road operational capacity, boosted economic development and
improved economic benefits. Higher road standard and less traffic accident rate made
reduction of damage degree to people's property and life safety. The improvement to road
environment reduced pollution to surrounding environment, strengthened road service
function and improved living conditions for residents.

7. Successful Experiences
1) Through the implementation of this project, the targets including of enhancing traffic
capacity of arterial road network in Anhui Province, perfecting the connection between
network roads and rural roads, improving infrastructures in poor areas, driving economic
development in counties and townships along the alignment, are reached. Therefore,
social and economic effectiveness are obviously improved.

2) To meet the goals of fully saving resources and protecting environment, reducing
engineering cost, promoting new technology and crafts, enhancing the implementation of
this project, it utilized technologies of plant-mix hot recycling, plant-mix cold recycling
and in-situ cold recycling in this project. In parallel, successful experiences are
summarized and formed a book called Technical Guideline for Anhui Highway Asphalt
Pavement Recycling Design and Construction. Currently, asphalt recycling technology
was on the course of extensive application within the range of road network projects in
Anhui Province.

3) In this project, it was compiled Manual for Highway Construction & Environmental
Protection in Anhui. This Manual concluded environmental protection experiences during
domestic highway construction and specific practices in Anhui, learned some good



                                            36
practices and management experiences in foreign countries, which provided
comprehensively technical guidance to actual environmental protection work for all
highway construction staff in Anhui and even in whole China.

4) The maintenance quality was outstandingly improved through the brand new highway
maintenance quality evaluation system, namely maintenance quality was evaluated by
MQI value of project implementation results.

5) This project, through domestic and overseas training and study tour programs, has
trained professional staff who have become technical backbone and leading cadres in the
fields of their department and profession, distributing in each field of highway transport
sector in Anhui. Thus, the achievements not only guarantee the successful completion of
World Bank Financed Project III, but also play a pivotal role for construction of highway
projects in other provinces and make outstanding contributions to all-around development
of highway construction career in Anhui Province.




                                           37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


The World Bank, Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project: Project
Appraisal Document (Report No. 42642-CN), March 14, 2008

The World Bank, Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project: Loan
Agreement (Loan No. 7511-CN) between People’s Republic of China and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, August 8, 2008

The World Bank, Anhui Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project: Project
Agreement (Loan No. 7511-CN) between the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and Anhui Province, August 8, 2008

The World Bank, internal documents, from 2006 to 2009

People’s Republic of China, Progress Reports of World Bank Loan Project, Anhui
Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project, from 2008 to 2012




                                         39
                           MAP




                        INSERT

                          MAP

                         HERE



      AFTER APPROVAL BY COUNTRY DIRECTOR

AN ORIGINAL MAP OBTAINED FROM GSD MAP DESIGN UNIT

                 SHOULD BE INSERTED

              MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

   BEFORE SENDING A FINAL ICR TO THE PRINT SHOP.




           NOTE: To obtain a map, please contact

           the GSD Map Design Unit (Ext. 31482)

       A minimum of a one week turnaround is required




                            40
