RESTR ICTED
FILE     COPY                          Report No.
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
February 3, 1966



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOBMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOIHIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONCERNING A
DEVEOrMENT CREDIT FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TO THE EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
1.      I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed developient credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to US$ 7.2 million to the Empire of Ethiopia to finance part of the cost
of a program for the expansion and improvement of secondary and technical
education.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      This is the first education project proposed for financing in
Ethiopia. The project is the outcome of a series of consultations in the
last three years between the Government and international and national
agencies to prepare a long term program for the expansion and improvement
of education, particularly at the primary and secondary levels. A UNESCO
Educational Investment Programming Mission visited the country in
September/November 1962 and an ILO/UNESCO mission in early 1964 advised
the Government on the development of technical and vocational education.
In April 1964 a UNESCO mission visited Ethiopia to assist in project
identification and at the end of 1964 a UNESCO mission assisted the Govern-
ment in the preparation of the project aupraised by the Association in
May 1965.
3.      Formal negotiations took place i.i Washington in January 1966.
The borrower was represented by H.E. Ato Mulatu Debebe, Vice Minister
of Finance, and Ato Bekele Gayid, Assistant Minister, Ministry of Educa-
tion and Fine Arts, who would be responsible for the implementation of
the project.
4.      The proposed credit would be the second credit to Ethiopia and
would increase the total IDA financing in Ethiopia to US$ 20.7 million.
Ethiopia has received eight loans from the Bank, for a total amount of
US$ 56.7 million. The status as of January 31, 1965, of the loans and
credits already made is as follows:



Amount (US$ million)
Year  Borrower    Purpose                     Bank Loans     IDA Credits  Undisbursed
1950  Ethiopia    Highway                         50 
1950  Ethiopia    Agriculture and Industry        2.0                         -
1951  Ethiopia    Telecommunications              1.5                         -
1957  Ethiopia    Highway                        15.0                         _
1961  DBE         Agriculture and Industry        2.0                         -
1962  IBTE        Telecommunications              2.9                         -
1963  Ethiopia    Highway                                       13.5         7.4
1964  EELPA       Electric Power                 23.5                       15.9
1965  IBTE        Telecommunications             4.8 1/                      4.8
Total                                     56.7            13.5        28.1
of which has been repaid                 8.o
Total now outstanding                     48.7
Amount sold or agreed to be sold: 3.8
of which has been repaid        1.5       2.3
Total now held                            46.4
Total undisbursed                         20.7             7.4
5.      Progress on the electric power project financed by the Bank loan
is as planned. Construction of the twio project roads started approiimately
one year later than originally planned because designs and specifications
had to be substantially amended as a result of review by consultants.
Work on both roads is now in hand and disbursements are expected to
accelerate but are unlikely to be conpleted before the credit's original
closing date of October 1, 1967.
6.      At the request of the Government, financing of further road
construction, which may involve substantial external assistance, is now
under preliminary review. The Government and the Bank are agreed on the
need for a thorough review of IHA's organization and operations before
major new investment in roads could be effectively undertaken and
arrangements are now being made accordingly. An FAQ/Bank mission
1/ Not yet effective.



- 3 -
visited Ethiopia last December to advise the Government on the establish-
ment of an agricultural credit institution and to assist in the prepara-
tion of an agricultural project suitable for financial assistance from
the Bank or Association. A request has also been received for assistance
in the preparation of a water and sewage project for the city of Addis
Ababa.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Borrower:             Empire of Ethiopia.
Amount:               $ 7.2 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:              To meet part of the cost of construction
and equipment of secondary, technical and
teacher training schools.
Amortization:         50 years, by semi-annual payments beginning
May 1, 1976, and ending November 1, 2015.
Payments to and including the installment
payable November 1, 1985, to be 1/2 of 1%
of principal amount and each installment there-
after to be 1-1/2% of the principal amount.
Service Charge:       3/4 of 1% of the principal amount of the
credit disbursed and outstanding.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.      A report on the project "Appraisal of Educational Project in
Ethiopia" (TO-505a) is attached.
8.      The project is for the construction of new, and expansion of
existing, secondary, technical and teacher training schools, together with
student hostels, staff houses and the purchase of furniture and equipment.
The project covers all capital investment in these fields in Ethiopia in the
next 4-1/2 years. The estimated total cost of the project, including
consultant fees and allowances for contingencies, is $ 11 million. The
proposed credit of $ 7.2 million would cover all the estimated foreign
exchange costs ($ 3.8 million) and roughly half the local expenditures,
with the result that the Association would finance two-thirds of the
project cost and the Government the remainder. The project would be
completed by the end of 1970.
9.      Of the total cost, 60% is for construction, 13% for equipment,
11% for furniture, the rest being for consultant fees and contingencies.
The share of secondary education will be $ 9.33 million, technical educa-
tion $ 1.35 million and teacher training $ 0.32 million. The project



involves the extension or new construction of the following 183 items:
Extensions      New construction
Secondary schools                  23                 5
Technical institutes                1                  1
Primary teacher training institutes -                   2
Practical teacher training
institute,          -                  1
Hostels                             _                  70
Staff houses                        -                  31
10.    For the purpose of administering and supervising the execution of
the project and to assure necessary coordination with other agencies, the
Government will establish within the Ministry of Education a Project
Implementation Unit headed by a project manager acceptable to the
Association and staffed with an architect, a technical education adviser
and accountants. The Unit would maintain close contact with the Ministries
of Public Works and Finance through their designated representatives. The
Government has also undertaken to employ qualified and experienced
architects and engineers to assist in carrying cut the project and to use
contractors acceptable to the Association.
11.    The project will help meet the country's urgent need for expansion
and improvement of secondary school education. At present only 10% of
eligible children attend primary school. Of children between the ages of
13 and 18 only 1% attend high school and very few of these go on to
institutions of higher learning. The quality of teaching and also the
facilities provided leave much to be desired. Of about 1,550 secondary
school teachers only 900 are Ethiopian and 800 of them have not had
proper training. There is unanimous agreement that the greatest deficien-
cies in the output of the education system are at the secondary school
level, resulting in a shortage of middle-grade personnel in every field,
a serious shortage of candidates for teachers at all levels and too few
candidates for technical, professional and higher educational institu-
tions.
12.    Upon the completion of the project secondary school enrollment
capacity would increase from 31,000 to 51,000. There would be also
1,330 additional places in trace training and 300 more primary teacher
and 270 more practical teacher training places. Over and above the
purely numerical increase, the standard of secondary school education
will considerably improve as a result of revisions of the secondary
school structure and curriculum and of the new facilities provided for
subjects in agriculture, industrial arts and commerce.



PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
13.      Copies of a draft Development Credit Agreement between the
Ehpire of Ethiopia and the Association and the Reconmendation of the
Committee provided for under Section l(d) of Article V of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association relating to the project are being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
1h.      The proposed Development Credit Agreement is in the form
generally used for education projects. It includes provisions concerning
adequate expert assistance for implementation and an undertaking to
maintain the number of qualified teachers and make efforts to increase
them in secondary schools.
PART V - THE BCONOMY
15.      A report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Ethiopia"
(AF-38) of October 29, 1965, was circulated on November 4, 1965 (R65-169)
and a summary of the latest information was presented to the Executive
Directors in their meeting of November 16, 1965. There has been no
significant change in the economic situation since that time.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
16.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECONNENDATION
17.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION No.
Approval of a Development Credit
to the Impire of Ethiopia
(Education Project)
in an Amount Equivalent to
US$ 7,200,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit
to the Empire of Ethiopia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million two hundred
thousand United States dollars (US$ 7,200,000) to mature
on and prior to November 1, 2015, to bear a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions substantially in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of the Development
Credit Agreement (Education Project) between the Empire
of Ethiopia and the Association, which has been
presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Washington, D.C.
February 3, 1966



