STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                      78691
 ELK
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                                             Washington, D.C.
                                             Tuesday, February 15, 1966

                         The meeting of the Executive Directors of the
           International DevelopaentJAssociation was convened at 10:30

           o'clock a.m., in the Board Room, 1818 H Street, N.W.,
           George D. Woods, President, presiding.
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                  2

                                 C 0 N T E N T S

           ITEM:


           ·-
           2.   Proposed Development Ii!redit - Ethd..opia
                   President's Report and Recommendation
                   (~DA/R66-5, IDA/R66-5-L, IDA/R66-5-L/l
                                                              I


                   and R65-169).                              2


           •
                   •
                   •
                                                              •
                                                              •

           ~:      The IDA Meeting was closed on page 52;
                   reconvened as a Meeting of the Executive
                   Directors of the Bank.
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                          3

                               P R0 CE E DI NGS
                               -----------
                     MR. WOODS:    Good morning, gentlemen.

                     We meet this morning as the Directors of IDA .

           And the first item of business relates to the minutes of the

           meeting which we had on February 3.     That's document M66-3.

                     Has any Director any questions or comments with

           respect to M66-3?     [Silence]

                     In the absence of such, the ddcument is approved.

                     We come now to the recommendation with respect

           to development credit for Ethiopia, which is the principal

           reason for the meeting this morning .    It's document R66-5 .

           It relates to an educational project, which it seems to me

           is particularly interesting .

                     Mr. Samii is with us this morning to present

           orally the general aspects of this credit.     And Mr. McMahon

           will comment on the particular project.

                     Mr. Samii, will you join us?

                        [Mr. Samii came to the table]   Good morning.

                     MR. SAMII:    Mr. Chairman, Members of the Board:

                     The proposed Education Credit is the second credit

           to Ethiopia and, together with the Highway Credit of 1963,

           will increase our total commitment to about $21 million as

           compared with total Bank loans of about $57 million.         This is

           still a hard blend.     In the past our financing has been

           repeatedly    channeled into highway construction and
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                         4
           telecommunications, with a small amount to the Development

           Bank of Ethiopia.     Our efforts to enter other areas were

           frustrated by the lack of suitable projects.      Fortunately,

           last year for the first time, we found it possible to par-

           ticipate in the development of a large Electric Power project.

           The present Education project and the prospective Agricultura

           Credit project and a Water and Sewage project for the city

           of Addis Ababa would certainly be welcome additions to the

           areas with which we have been associated with in the past

           and most likely will continue to be associated in the future.

                      In the latter part of November when the financing

           of the Telecommunications project was being considered, my

           colleagues, Mr. Kruithof and Mr. Scheltema,    presen~ed   to you

           the latest general and economic information about Ethiopia.

           The situation reported to you at that time has obviously

           undergone no significant change.

                      In our previous reports, we have not been very

           optimistic about the future economic development of the

           country in spite of its potential possibilities for rapid

           growth.   We pointed out that Ethiopia's performance in cer-

           tain   sector~   such as exports, transport and power, has been

           satisfactory.      But until much greater efforts are made in

           removing the structural impediments to the development of

           traditional agriculture, accompanied with substantially

           higher investment, one could not speak of prospects of rapid
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                           5

           development.    Furthermore, it is disconcerting that the

           central Government's investment expenditures, which reached

           the peak of $38 million in 1962-63, are budgeted to decline

           to about $30 million for the present fiscal year.

                       However, there are grounds for greater optimism in

           the number of individual projects in the productive sectors,

           for which external financing is now being arranged, or those

           projects now under preparation, which may indicate that the

           volume of investment is in fact on the rise.

                       The Government hopes to arrange financing of $9

           million with the United States Agency for International
                           four
           Development for/small industrial projects that are estimated

           to cost about $12 million.    These are:     a glass factory,

           a mineral water bottling plant, an oil crushing factory,

           and the expansion of a wool factory.       The Government is

           discussing with AID the financing of over $20 million for

           the final engineering and construction of a hydroelectric

           project on the Finchaa River.    This project is estimated to

           cost over $30 million.

                       Perhaps most important, in the long run, are

           arrangements presently under negotiation with AID for an agro

           industrial survey for identification and preparation of

           projects.    The survey will require a year and a half to two

           years and will cost over $1 ,million.      IFC, as you know, is

           currently examining the possible debt and equity participatio
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                              6

            in a +arge agricultural development project, (this is the

            Matahfa sugar and sisal project) with an estimated total

            cost of $23 million.     The establishment of a meat packing

            plant, that is estimated to cost over $3 million, is also

            under active consideration.       The Government has submitted

            to the Bank preliminary information on the fourth highway

            construe tion project, which would require substantia 1 ex-

            ternal assistance.      We are discussing with the Government the

            necessary arrangements for a review of the organization and

            operations of the Imperial Highway Authority, so that the

            Authority would be in a better position to undertake major

            new investments.     Execution of the projects mentioned here

            is to start within a     yea~   to be completed in four or five

            years.

                       These are some of the indications that greater

            efforts are being made by the Ethiopian and outside agencies

            in the preparation of projects that might lead to higher

            levels of investment in the near future.

                       Thank you.

                      MR. WOODS:      Thank you, Mr. Samii.

                      Mr. McMahon.

                      MR. McMAHON:     Mr. Chairman, and Members of the

            Board:   The aims of this project are threefold:       first,

            secondary school enrollment will be increased and the quality

            of the education will rise.        Second, the facilities for
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                        7

           technical education will be expanded to meet the needs of a

           growing industrial sector.    And, third, teacher training

           will be increased to meet the needs created by this expansion

           and to reduce the dependence on expatriates.

                     The urgent need to improve quality and increase

           student output arises from the fact that only 1% of the 13-18

           year old children attend secondary schools, a ratio which is

           probably the lowest in any developing country.    The cor-

           responding figures for Ghana and Pakistan are 16% and 18%

           respectively.   From a population of 22 million, less than

           1,000 students complete semndary schools each year and

           only 200 of these are at a standard high enough to permit

           university entrance.

                     The project will provide a 65% increase of student

           enrollment in 77 of the country's planned total of 78

           secondary schools.     This increase, supported by a greatly

           improved supply of trained teachers and teaching facilities,

           is expected to result in a 300/o increase in students suc-

           cessfully completing a secondary education.

                     A revision of the school curricula to include

           agricultural, commercial and technical subjects has already

           taken place, but visits paid by the mission to various

           schools found an acute shortage of workshops and equipment.

           Hence, the project will provide the additional buildings and

           equipment required for these new practical subjects.
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                           8

                      An experimental feature at two schools is the

           addition of trade training facilities which will be used

           not only by the secondary school boys, but also by about

           670 students who will attend part-time day or evening

           classes.   If this experiment proves successful, it is in-

           tended to provide similar additions at other secondary

           schools.

                      The replacement of one and the expansion of a

           second technical institute is included in the project to

           provide more buildings and new instructional equipment.

           This will result in an increase in the number of students

           from 800 to 2,000, and so help to meet the urgent demand

           for trained manpower for developing industry.

                      The demand created by the project for teachers of

           practical subjects will be met by a Practical Teacher Train-

           ing Institute to accommodate 270 students.     Cooperation

           with the United States Agency for International Development

           has resulted in arrangements for a six-man team from Utah

           University to staff this Institute for a number of years.

           A Utah University team is already operating a successful

           training program for academic   teachers~   And the effect of

           these two complementary programs will be to increase the

           proportion of trained secondary school Ethiopian teachers

           from the present 7% to 22% by 1970 and to 80% by 1980.

                      A higher quality of student entering secondary
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                          9

           schools will result from provision for an increased output

           of trained primary school teachers.    This will be undertaken

           at two institutes for 800 trainees and produce nearly 400

           qualified teachers per year.   A UNESCO/UNICEF team will

           provide staff for these two institutes.

                     In sum, the project will increase by three times

           the number of young people completing secondary level

           education, increase the quality of all trained students, and

           so make them better fitted for useful and skilled employment

           in industrial, commercial and administrative posts.     And,

           finally, it will ensure an adequate supply of trained teach-

           ers and eventually eliminate the need for expatriate and

           untrained teachers.

                     Thank you, sir.

                     MR. WOODS:    Thank you, Mr. McMahon.

                     Well, gentlemen, this project is before you.     Your

           questions and comments are welcome.

                     Dr. Donner.

                     DR. DONNER:    Mr. Chairman, I am greatly impressed

           by this project, and--to repeat a formula often used

           around this table--give it my wholeh.eart:ed sqppox,t. [Laughter

                     I won't have to say very much, because Mr. McMahon

           has highlighted the specifics of the project.     On the basis

           of the experience of the observations I have made, other

           countries--underdeveloped countries and less industrial
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                         10
           countries--have particularly welcomed the emphasis which is

           put in this project on including practical subjects into the

           high school curriculum; and, also, the secondary schools,

           of which Mr. McMahon spoke, which provide part day and

           evening classes in practical subject matters.

                      I cannot help, also, being very much pleased about

           the cost consciousness which shines through this report.          I

           couldn't help comparing the figures I find in this report

           with figures we had a number of years ago, in 1962, when we

           launched the first project, the Tunisian educational project.

           At that time, the cost per:resident pupil   turned out to be--

           if I recall it correctly, without my files--between $2,500

           and $5,000 per resident student.

                      In this case, in Ethiopia, we find here for

           high schools, for construction, a figure of about $200 per

           pupil.   And, for the construction of youth hostels, where

           the students live, $140 per person, per student.

                      Now, this is a tremendously far cry from the figure

           we had at that time, where admittedly we didn't have any

           experience.   The explanation given by the staff, at that

           time, was that where they build using European standards

           they don't have the material on which the Europeans rely, and

           which they would have to import.

                      The report here makes   comparison~   with regard to

           the costs of this construction, with England--pointing out
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                            11

           how much more they are, and how favorably they compare with

           costs in England.    But, I would assume, that these costs

           would also compare favorably with what is spent for school

           construction in other lesser developed countries.         Even

           if I assumed that Tunisia, at that time, was an exceptional

           case, I am inclined to believe--but, maybe, I could be

           refuted, if I am wrong--that the methods employed here,

           to repeat, would compare favorably with all the experiences

           we had in lesser developed countries.

                       Mr. Samii spoke of the structural impairments,

           which, so far, have hampered very much the development of

           Ethiopia.    He spoke of the necessity of breaking   ~p    old

           structures, and their having to develop new attitudes"

                       Now, if this interpretation of mine is correct--

           that, the Ethiopian Government is that cost conscious,

           as this text would indicate they are ·; ., and, if it is true, as

           in a private talk with Mr. McMahon I heard, that the Ethliopia

           Government wouldn't have objected against d~inishing, de-             <
                                                                                 .
           creasing these figures even more--when I see that a governmen

           is so cost conscious I would assume that they are well on the

           road along which progress can be expected.

                       I had one question, in addition, if I may ask this,

           Mr. Chairman.    In those paragraphs on the external debt of

           the country, reference is made to the large undisbursed part

           of the credits Ethiopia has gotten so far.     Now, with regard
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                           12

            to the figures that apply to the Bank loans, and the IDA

            credits, a satisfactory explanation has been given in the

            documents.     These projects have developed more or less as

            expected.     So that, as a consequence, though there is still

            an overhang from previous Bank loans, of IDA credits, nothing

            particularly amazing is involved in this.

                         And when I look at the table, which I find in the

            document, current economic position and prospects of

            Ethiopia, Table 1, then I observe that so little of the

            loans which Ethiopia has received from the Sino-Soviet Bloc

            has remained undisbursed--loans from the U. So S. R.,

            and loans from Czechoslovakia.        As far as I know, these are

            old loans.     We talked about this particular situation some

            time ago.

                         My question is:     Are these, indeed, her r undisburse

            amount of credits from old loans; or are they newer loans?

                         In case they are remnants of old loans, what is the

            reason that the Ethiopian Government doesn't draw more quickl

            on the resources it has available from other governments?

                         Thank you.

                         MR.   WOODS~   Thank you, Dro Donner.

                         Who is prepared to respond to that question for

            Dr. Donner?

                         Mr. Scheltema.

                         MR. SCHELTEMA:     The large undisbursed portion of
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                13

           the Sino-Soviet loans is, in the first place, explained by

           what is generally the trouble, or was more or less the

           trouble--that there are no        well~defined   projects to which

           the foreign loans can easily be allocated.

                       Moreover, I don't know whether this is entirely

           correct, because it is based on what one hears, but the

           Ethiopian Government has the impression that these loans are

           rather expensive, work out rather expensive, and are there-

           fore a bit hesitant to use this very large amount of

           Rbls := I5tm!hllion.   But, I must repeat, this is what I hear.

                       MR. WOODS:     Expensive, in terms of interest rates?

                       MR. SCHELTEMA.     Not officially in terms of inter-

           est rates, but--

                       MR. WOODS:     In terms of what the money must be spen

           for?

                       MR. SCHELTEMA:    Yes.     Indeed, yes.   That's what

           I mean.

                       MR. WOODS:    Thank you.

                       Well, did your question, Dr. Donner, limit itself

           to the loans from the--

                       DR. DONNER:    Yes.    Yes.

                       MR. WOODS:     --SoviEt Bloc?

                       DR. DONNER:    That's the biggest unexplained block.

           There is a backlog from IBRD loans, and IDA credits, but an

           explanation has been given in the documents.          And this, I
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                   14
           believe--      It is true that these Russian and Czech loans

           are old ones .

                         MR. SCHELTEMA :         Yes.

                         DR. DONNER:      Yes.

                         MR. SCHELTEMA:          The main project executed under

           the Soviet loan is the oil refinery which is not yet

           completed .

                         MR. WOODS:       Thank you very much .

                         DR. DONNER:       Since this I believe is an interesti ng

           subj ect matter in general, in addition to being interesting

           for Ethiopia, could we maybe hear something . from Mr.

           McMahon about what the explanation. is for· this faverable

           picture we get here as to the costs of this project?

                         MR. WOODS:       Yes.

                         Mr . McMahon .

                         MR. McMAHON :      I think there are several factors

           that made the building cost cheap.              First of all, the

           Ethiopians wanted African standards and not Ethiopian

           ones.   Their initial suggestion to us for students' resi-

           dents was in the form of mud huts .             They wanted some mud hu ts

           --the Czech construction out there .             This, we wouldn't go

           along with.
                         We, eventual l y, persuaded them to accept a con-

           cr·e'te block construction, and still insist upon keeping

           the standards for students down to quite a             -~~s~~ble    level .
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                 15

                        In the classrooms, they wanted to allow only one

           square meter, about 11 square feet, to each student; which

           we felt was far too small for secondary school students.

           We tried to argue one and a half square meters with them,

           and, in the end, we compromised on one and a quarter square

           meters.

                        Building costs in Ethiopia, too, are quite cheapo

           There is plenty of labor, plenty of building construction

           available"     They can make most of their own materialso            They

           have their own cement factories.            They make their own

           steel trusses for the roofs.         So that the amount of imported

           material is kept down to a quite small amount.

                        But the main factor was the desire of the

           Ethiopians to keep costs down to a minimum, and to get the

           most that they possibly could for their money.

                        MR.   WOODS~    A refreshing point of viewo

                        D~    DONNER:    Yes, it is.     The   Eth~opian   Government

           didn't try to bring about a demonstration, for its part?

                        MR. McMAHON:      Noo   No.    We had several meetings on

           this to try to get them to raise their standards to what

           we thought to be a reasonable standard in order to enable

           the education to proceed smoothly.

                        MRo WOODS:      And they did raise their standards

           somewhat.

                        MRo McMAHON:      Reluctantly, they did raise them;
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                             16

           yes.

                       We     eliminated the mud construction, for concrete

           blocks.    And we raised the one square meter to one and a

           quarter square meters.

                       MR. WOODS:       So you might say, Dr. Donner, that

           this Ethiopian affair is rather related to Ethiopian standard

           whereas, the Tunisian affair was rather related to Western

           European standards.

                       Well, one of my regrets, I may say, Dr. Donner, is

           that I    did~~t   J6in this Bank about six months before I did--

           at the time Mr. Black originally wanted me to join it--with

           the result that I would have been he.re at the discussion of

           this famous, or infamous, Tunis educational loano         As it is,

           I hear about it constantly, but had no participation in

           it; and it must have been quite an interesting affairo            It

           was approved, I think, in September or October of '62.

                        Does that satisfy your inquiry?

                        DR.   DONNER~    Yes.   Thank you.

                        MR. WOODS:      Any other Director?

                        Dr. Lieftinck.

                        DRo   LIEFTINCK~    Mr. Chairman, I warmly welcome

           this proposal for the development credit to Ethiopia for

           secondary vocational education.          I think if any country

           qualifies for IDA support, I think it is Ethiopia with its

           very low level of income per capita, and its small foreign

           debt bearing capacity.
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                          17
                        It is interesting to look at the budget expendi-

           tures in Table 8 of the Annex, the economic report, in order

           to get an impression of what the Government is doing.      And

           we presently note that the item which has shown the greatest

           increase is national defense.      If one compares this with the

           very minor amount,which we have, spent by the Minister of

           Agriculture, the Minister of Commerce and Industry, and the

           Minister of Public Works and Communications, one has the

           impression that much more will have to be done in the economi

           sectors than presently is the case.

                        But I fully agree that this all is conditioned by

           improvement of the scale and quality of education, primarily

           in the secondary leveL

                          I fully associate myself with the observation

           made by Mr. Donner on the economic and financial aspects of

           the project.

                        I am very pleased to note that in this case the

           project is adjusted to national conditions, which reflects

           itself in the cost figures.

                         I only have a few questions to ask in order to show

           my interest in the project.

                         It is mentioned in the technical report, which I

           consider an excellent report, paragraph 16 on page 5, that
           11
                Enrollment of general secondary students in non-government

           schools amounts to about 13% of the total but the number is
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                            18

           not expected to rise substantially because of the high costs

           involved in following the Ministry's new curriculum."

                      Is my understanding correct:       that, this present

           project, being financed by IDA, will only benefit the

           government schools?     And I would like to ask what are the

           expectations with respect to the non-government schools?

                      MR. WOODS:     Mr. McMahon, will you answer the ques t i n .

                      DR. LIEETIN<::K:    The second question is that I

           noted that recurrent costs of the project will be on the

           order of Eth$ 2 1/2 a year.       And I would like to inquire

           whether education is free--primary and secondary education;

           or, whether any fees have to be paid?

                      And, thirdly, I do think that the actual success

           of the whole prog:mm will depend, to a large extent, on the

           success in reducing the drop-out rate, which is very high

           also in the secondary schools.        And since this is, in my

           opinion, such an overriding element in the results to be

           ~hieved,   I would like to have some information, if possible,

           what are the expectations in this respect, and what is being

           done, or intended to be done, in order to reduce considerably

           the drop-out rate.

                      MR. WOODS:     Thank you, Dr. Lieftinck.

                      Mr. McMahon.

                      MR. McMAHON:       Thank you.

                       On the three questions, Mr.     Chai~an,   paragraph 16
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                               19

           deals with the high cost .of secondary education.         It is

           higher than it was because we are now putting in practical

           schemes into schools, and the cost of practical schemes

           is very much higher than academic schemes.          And, for this

           reason,    we didn't think--      Or, at any rat:e, we discussed

           this with some private schools out there, and they felt

           they would not be able to meet the new curriculum which

           the Ministry were going to insist upon in private schools.

                       For this reason, we feel that no expansion in

           private schools is likely to take place.

                       DR.   LIEFTINCK~    May I ask here what is the

           character of these non-government schools?          Are they at a

           higher level, or--

                       MR. McMAHON:       They are on a lower level, and they

           were run by religious bodies, mainly, with the idea of

           producing that type of persono

                       MR. WOODS:     None of the funds we are contemplating

           providing here go to the non- government schools?

                       MR. McMAHON:       None at all.    They are all directed

           at government schools.         That is true.

                       The second point, about the recurrent costs.

           Education is all freeo         There are no fees at all in the

           schoolso

                       The third point, about drop-out rate, this, of

           course, is always a difficult matter in underdeveloped
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                              20

           countries.     We hope, and we think, that the provision of

           good equipment, and, particularly, the provision of the

           better quality teacher, will reduce the drop-out rate.

                        I understand that UNESCO have done an investigation

           into this matter, and they take the view that an improvement

           in teachers is likely to reduce the drop-out rate consider-

           ably.

                        DR. LIEFTINCK:      Nevertheless, I think that the

           contribution that this project is expected to make--it

           cannot be measured by the additional enrollment facilities

           which it creates, particularly, by the number of people who

           will have the full benefit by not dropping out.

                         MR. McMAHON:      Well, we think this:   that, the

           effect of this will probably be that instead of having

           11,000   students~-if       the present drop-out rate continued,

           there would be 11,000 students finishing up at grade         7~­


           we think that 16,800 would still be in the primary schools

           at grade 7, if we put in the better quality of primary

           school teachers that we hope.

                        So there should be an increase, a very, very sub-

           stantial improvement in the drop-out rate, because of the in-

           creased quality of teachers.

                        MR.   WOODS~     These estimates that we have, Mr.

           McMahon, are on the basis that the drop-out rate will improve

                        MR"   McMAHON~    Yes, indeed.   Yes.
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                             21

                     MRo WOODS:      That may be the answer to your ques-

           tion, Dr. Lieftinck.      For whatever reason, this technical

           report puts in the foundation piece that the drop-out rate

           will decrease; that is, vzill improve.        And the reason given

           is that the teaching will be better, and, presumably, the

           facilities will be more attractive.

                      Were there any other reasons?

                      MR. McMAHON:        I think the facilities will be

           one of them.,    There has been tremendous overcrowding in

           schools, and if we increase the school capacity, and improve

           the teachers, we think that this will keep students there.

           I think many students just get tired of inferior equipment,

           inferior accommodation, inferior students; and they leave for

           those reasons.

                        The failure rate, of course--apart from drop-out,

           the failure rate of students is very high.         They don't get

           promoted from one grade to the next, and this, again, should

           be improved by teachers.

                        DR. LIEFTINCK:      If I may, sir, I have understood

           that the figures given in this report are figures for

           additional enrollment.

                        MRo McMAHON:      Yes.

                        DR.. LIEFTINCK:     But not figures for additional

           graduates.

                        Now, the ratio between enrollment and graduation
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                              22

           may improve.
                        MR. McMAHON:     Right.
                        DR. LIEFTINCK:     Or, is it different than--    I

           assume that the figures given here are not only figures for

           enrollment, but this counts for the fai:hures and the drop-

           outs, and the estimated number of graduateso

                        MR. McMAHON:     We have planned the schools on the

           assumption, of course, that there will continue to be some

           drop-outs.     There are some schools we have planned with, say,

           a five-scream entry at grade 7; and this will taper off

           to probably a three-or four-stream in the upper levels.

           So we have to take into account in the planning of the

           ~hools   some drop out.     The drop-out rate is a much smaller

           rate than has been taking place in the past.

                        The enrollments, of course, is the number of

           places which are being made available in schools.        And we

           hope they     will all be filledo We hope the drop out will

           be kept down to fill all those places in the upper levels.

                        We found out there that the facilities in the

           upper grades of    schoo~     were not adequately used always      be~

           cause of the big drop-out rate in the early yearso           You

           find that the initial forms--grades 1 and grades 2--were

           filled up with students; and the top ones were half empty.

                        MR. WOODS:     You have a chart, haven't you, that

           you were looking at, Mr. McMahon, that reflects the decrease
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                            23

           in the drop-out rate--the chart that puts the guesstimate

           on how many?

                     MR.. McMAHON:       Annex 5.

                     MR. WOODS:        I think that--   Dr. Lieftinck?

           What is the number?        Annex 5?

                     MR.   McMAHON~      Annex 5o

                     MR. WOODS:        Annex 5, Dr. Lieftinck ?

                     You [Dr. Lieftinck] were addressing your questions,

           I think, from the paragraph in the text which relates only

           to enrollments o

                     DR.    LIEFTINCK~     Yes.

                     MR. WOODS:        And this chart, if I understand it

           correctly, covers both--both enrollments and completions.

                     MR. McMAHON:        Yes.

                     MR. WOODS:        Anyone else on this matter?

                         Mr. Mirza.

                     MR. MIRZA:        Thank you, Mro Chairman.

                     I, too, give my full and very warm support to this

           very good project, and for a very great and worthy objective.

           Indeed, this is one of those projects about which there can

           hardly be any two opinions, about its urgency and about its

           importanceo

                     And I would particularly like to congratulate

           you, Mro Chairmano     That is to say, to meet about two-thirds

           of the total expenditures, that is not only the full
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                            24

           estimated foreign exchange costs, but, also, roughly, half

           the local expenditureo

                      I particularly want to welcome this feature, and

           this fully meets the circumstances of this countryo

                        I am a little bit upset by this contingency in the

           consultants' fees, which are as high as 16%.          I wonder why

           the consultants' fees, which is about a million dollars--

           $:.92 million--considering the nature of this project
           (it is school construction and curriculum) that it should not

           be so very expensive.     In my v#,ew, the consultants' know-how

           should not be of that high, sophisticated-type, know-how;

           like the one which we associate normally with industries.

           I was wondering if there is any particular reason for this.

                        And I would also like to see more of the technical

           institutes    which~-according   to this   ~igure   before me, there

           was going to be only one new construction, and only two

           primary teacher training institutes.        While I am very happy

           that there will be as many as 54 secondary schools, I wish

           these, too, would have been a little more, considering the

           serious shortage of the candidates for teachers in this

           country.
                        I wonder if some observation could be made on this.

                        Thank you, Mro Chairman.

                        MR. WOODS:   Yes, Mr. Mirza.

                        Can you respond to that, Mr. McMahon--to those

           two points?
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                     25
                       MR.   McMAHON~               Well, on the question of consultants'

           fees, Ethiopia is a very large and difficult country, and

           the sites of the schools are spread throughout the countryo

           The cost of supervision of these sites we think will be

           quite high. · Compam<l with the compact project in one building

           site,   t.he consultants 1 fees for this supervision will be

           relatively higho      We hope they will get it for less than the

           figure we have quoted.                    But we feel that this is the sort

           of figure that we would have to allow for at this stageo
                        tec h>·..-vJ. .
                     On ~anus ~nst~tutes, we have put only two down.

           We felt that because there had been no manpower survey in

           the country which would justify the training of technicians--

           it is expensive, very expensive, this training--we felt until

           there was a' manpower survey that we could not justify the
                                  t"~~-J.> \.-. ,.._ ; ( "' ),
           p:-ovision of extra tetanu-s- institutes at this stage.

                       MR. WOODS:             Thank youo

                       Mr. Thor.

                       MR. THOR:          Mr. Chairman, I would like to join my

           colleagues here who have welcomed this IDA project for

           Ethiopia.    I    welco~e       it; and I will support it.

                       It was shocking to me to see that this very old

           nation has still only $40 income per capita, and see how

           slow the developing of the country has been.                    There is no

           doubt that a better education, or increased education, will

           be the greatest help to create understanding in the possibili y
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                          26

           of developing the country.

                     I have said that I welcome, and I will support

           this project.     There is only one question in my mind here.

           Will it mean that the success of this project will particu-

           larly depend on whether the secondary schools will get their

           material--the youngsters--to attend the schools?

                     And I see that in the reference on page 4 that at

           the present time;-for '63-'64, there are just 317,000 childre

           attending the primary schools.       And of that 317,000, a

           little less than 16,000 will continue up to the sixth or

           through the sixth grade.       I see on the same page, though, tha --

           it says there     that there is planned developments to "in-

           crease the number of children in primary schools" and it

           is planned that they will be 900,000 by 1969.

                     My question is:      What is this plan?   Or, are they

           so well based that they can be relieved therefrom to

           succeed in giving the flow of younsters into the secondary

           schools, which we are sppporting to be built?

                     Thank youo

                     MR. WOODS:     Tpank you, Mr. Thor.

                     Mr. McMahon.

                     MR. McMAHON:     Well, we didn't like this plan of

           theirs.   It wasn't   real~y   a plan.   It is a political decision

           to provide primary school acconunodation for all the students

           in the country.     The Addis Ababa Conference of some years
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                  27

           ago   put this forward.
                       We don't think it is possible for them.        We

           didn't think--and we discussed this with them, at length--

           we didn't think it was possible for them to increase the

           number of pupils from 300,000 to 900,000 in the next few

           years.     What we discussed with them; what we would like to

           see them do, would be to go in for a much more modest            in~


           crease in the number of students, say at the most SO%,

           but, at the same time, use the teachers that they are putting

           out to improve the quality of students coming out from those

           schools.
                        I think this common sense approach will probably

           prevail in Ethiopia.        I don't think they will get the

           students up to that number.        I think that if they accept

           these views, that they will       produc~   from the upper levels

           of their primary    school~    students of adequate quality to

           come to the secondary schools that we are financing.

                        MR. THOR:    Well, yes.    But I understand the

           project is creating a little more than 20,000 classroom

           seats for new secondary school pupils.          It creates seats.
                               1
           For instance, in        63- 1 64 it is just over 15,000.   The

           planning of the government is to a little less than triple

           the enrollment into primary       schoolsr ~Triple   the 15,000 is

           only 45,000 six gradepupils coming through the sixth

           grade.     And if we cannot rely upon this planning of triple
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                           28

           the number, it seemed to me that it is still        questiona~
           whether it is necessary to do something for the primary

           school system, to make sure that what we are helping to do

           in the secondary schools will succeed in getting enough

           material.

                       MR. McMAHON:      I think that if they only keep the

           present number of students in the primary schools at

           300,000, and if they could improve the quality of those

           without increasing the quantity, I think the output from

           there will be adequate for the secondary schools which are

           planned.    Because, you see, in the secondary schools when

           the expansion is completed there will be only 51,000

           altogether in the secondary schools.

                       Now, your output which--the figure you have just

           cpoted is the output each year.

                       MR. THOR:      Yes, of course.

                       MR~   McMAHON:     While the 51,000 is for six grades

           in the secondary schools.

                       MR. THOR:      Oh, I   se~


                       MR. WOODS:       Thank you.

                       Mr. Tazi.
                               '2-,
                       MR. T~:        Mr. Chairman, I also strongly support

           this project.      I think it would be of great help for the

           economy of Ethiopia.

                       I have been, also, very much impressed by the low
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                            29
           cost, the estimated cost per student for construction and

           equipment, which is about only two-thirds of the cost in

           Morocco, which has been costed already by the Bank and IDA

           as being rather on the low side.

                       But in this project, I particularly welcome the

           inclusion of the practical teacher into an institute.

           Unless I am wrong, Mr. Chairman, I think it is the first

           time we have included such a thing in an education project.

           And I would like to know what--once the teachers graduated--

           what they would do exactly?         What will be their main object?

           What are they going to teach?

                       MR. WOODS:   Where are they going to teach?

                       MR. TAZI:    What are they going to teach.

                       MR. WOODS:    What?

                       Mr. Ballantine, is this the first time we have

           had this teacher training?

                       Join us, won't you, please?

                       Is this the first      p~oject   with this teacher

           training?

                       MR. BALLANTINE:       No, Mr. Chairman, we did do it

           in Pakistan.

                       MR. WOODS:    We did it in Pakistan.

                       MR. BALLANTINE:       Yes.   I recall that one.   And the

           may have been others. But I know we did it in Pakistan.

                       MR. WOODS:    Yeh.     On the second point, would you
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                    30
           respond; or Mr. McMahon?        What are these teachers expected

           to do when they graduate?

                        MR. BALLANTINE:     Mro McMahon is the specialist

           in this.

                        MR. McMAHON:    What was the second point?

                        MR. WOODS:     The second point was what will these
           teachers do?

                        MR. McMAHON:     Oh, yes.   There are, at the present,

           in the secondary schools, p.o~t:eachers of practical subjects.

           This is the primary reason for these teachers, too.                The

           secondary schools will be made into comprehensive schools,

           including practical SGhemes of woodwork, metal work, com-

           merce--that kind of subject; and they will teach those.

           They will also be trained for teaching in the technical

           institutes, which will require much more specialized tratn-

           ing in the     engineering aspects of machine      shop work;

           welding, fitting, and allied subjects of that kind.

                        MR. WOODS:     Anything else, Mr. Tazi?

                        MR. TAZI:    Yes; a very short   question~   Mr:• .   ~

           Chairman.
                                            "'/
                        In presenting the economic aspect of this project

           mention     has been made as to the fact that IFC is now con-
           sidering a large development of an agricultural project in

           Ethiopia.     I would like, if it is possible, to know what

           exactly is this project to represent.
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                31

                       MR. WOODS:    An agricultural project in Ethiopia?

                       MR. TAZI:    Yes.

                       MR. WOODS:    I can't say.       Do you know, Mro Samii?

                       MR. SAMII:    Yes.

                       MR. WOODS:    Join us at the table, would you?

                       MR. SAMII:    [Sitting at tablel       This is a large

           agricultural project for production of sugar and sisal

           fiber.

                       MR. WOODS:    Sisal?

                       MR. SAMII:    Sisal and sugar.

                       MR. WOODS:    And sugar.     [Indicating pronunciation

           of word "sisal"]    Either way is right.        That's just my

           Brooklyn way of saying it.         Yours [to Mr. Samii] may be

           the proper way of saying it.             t

                       MR. SAMII:    In the Awash Valley, where the

           Ethiopian Government is making a very thorough survey of

           the possibilities of this region, it is estimated that

           ~oduction   of sugar will increase by about 45,000 tons, and

           the production of the fiber will increase by 4500 tons,

           once the project is completed.         This will take a period, I

           think, of eight years.      But this is the purpose of the

           project.

                       MR.. WOODS: How far along would you say that was?

                       MR. SAMII:    Well, the Ethiopian gentlemen who are

           here were negotiating with IFC for the details of the
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                             32

           ~:i:naacing   of the projects.

                         MR. WOODS:      Both?   The sugar and the sisal

           fib~r~ t.   Both _together?

                         MR. SAMII:      Both together; yes.

                         MR. WOODS:      So it might come up in the reasonably

           near future.

                         MR. TAZI:    May I ask does it include, also, the

           agricultural aspect of it, or only the industrial aspect?

                         MR. SAMII:      I am quite sure, and to my knowledge,

           both the industrial and agricultural aspect4.          It includes,

           also, the establishment of refining, I think.

                         MR. TAZI:     I particularly welcome .that, sir.

                         MR. WOODS:      The best witness on that, of course,

           would be von Hoffman; and you might pursue it with him.

                         Thank you very much. [to Mr. Samii]

                          Mr. Suzuki.

                         MR. SUZUKI:      Mr. Chainnan, I welcome this proposed

           IDA credit to Ethiopia; especially, the point raised by

           some of the Executive Directors before, the building cost .

                         Some time ago, I raised a question on this matter--

           after observing some developing countries--that the school

           buildings would be modest.            Now, in this case, that is the

           thing I wanted to expect.
                         And then another point was emphasis on equipment.

                         Now, looking at the Annex, one-third of the for eign
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                           33
           exchange cost is for equipment.     I think this is a great

           improvement.

                        Now, with regard to the practical technical teach-

           ing institute, at first I wondered why the allocation of the

           funds for equipment is so small.     But then I notice that

           the U. S. Government is going to give aid.     In some cases,

           I notice that the U. S. aid     is interested in   par~icular


           divisions of technical training; very often, they don 1 t

           cover all departments of technical training institutes.

           I hope, in this case, the funds allocated to this practical

           technical teaching institute is so small, so the U. S.

           Government will cover · almost all the activities of this

           institute.

                        And then,now, in the case of the education in

           Ethiopia, the training of teachers is very important.        And

           in one place I noticed that the school teachers move out

           of schools.     Now, there must be some subsidies or scholar-

           ships, or whatever assistance, given to students going to

           training institutes; or school teachers' schools.       I wonder

           what kind of obligations the graduates have.       In some cases,

           in some countries, those who go to teachers' institutes--they

           have obligations to teach at least for the same number of

           years in the schools, or twice as many as.

                        Now, in this paper, I didn't see any such notes.

                        What kind of obligations are attached?
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                         34

                     And then, looking at Annex 3, in this chart there

           is one type of institute--'erade institute--that after eight

           years; then 9, 10, 11 years, they are supposed to become

           artisans and craftsmen.    I don't see an explanation about

           what are the "trade institutes."

                     Now, from the standpoint of looking for some ways

           to increase productivity with the country, the name

           "trade institute 1 " or the number of years they have to

           spend; that is, 11 years altogebher, I suppose--this seems

           to be very important, but I couldn't see any explanation.

                     Thank you.

                     MR. WOODS:     Yes, Mr. Suzuki.

                     Will you respond to those questions, Mr. McMahon?

                     MR. McMAHON:     Well, the trade training, we are

           attaching to two of the secondary schools--special facili-

           ties for the training on a part-time day and evening basis

           of trades people.
                     MR. SUZUKI:     Now, that is trade extension in that

           one.   But this is a different one.    In the trade extension

           they also have some explanation--about trade extension.

           But this is not that.     It is "trade institutes."     The same

           thing, or different?
                      MR. McMAHON:    It is the same thing.      We have, on

            these two schools, these two secondary schools, general

           secondary schools, special facilities which have been put
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                             35
           on to provide training for craftsmen and artisans on a

           part-time day and evening basis.

                       MR. WOODS:     So it's the same thing.     Where is

           the "extension," Mr. Suzuki?

                       MR. SUZUKI:    Well, "trade extension," there is

           explanation some place.

                       MR. KNAPP:     Paragraph 55.

                       MR. SUZUKI:     Yes; 55, "Trade Extensions at Two

           Secondary Schoolso 11     Is that--

                       MR. McMAHON:     Yes.

                       MR. WOODS:     Is that the same thing?

                       MR. McMAHON:     Yes; this is the same thing.     Yes.

                       MR. SUZUKI:     That is trade extension.

                       MR. McMAHON:     On the question of the teachers'

           responsibility after training, there is no formal agreement

           between the    training teachers and the government that they

           will continue in teaching afterwards.       They have no such

           bonding arrangements, and they don't want to put on bonding

           arrangements at present.

                       MR. WOODS:     Generally speaking, do you think it's

           good practice to have these arrangements--that they will

           continue?

                       MR. McMAHON:     I don't think so.   I have experienced

           these in one college in which I have been, in Iraq, and I

           think it is a bum method.
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                  36

                       MR. WOODS:     Urn-hum.

                       MR. McMAHON:     I think they should put on proper

           salary scales to attract teachers and keep them there.             I

           think the   ~ bonding   is a bum method.

                       MR. WOODS:     Urn-hum.

                       Does that completely respond to you, Mr. Suzuki?

                       MR. SUZUKI:     Well, apparently, in developing coun-

           tries, it is hard to raise the salaries of the school teach-

           ers, it is hard to make it attractive. So, instead, they

           include   goo~materials     from villages and towns, and then

           give scholarships, and then they keep them in the teaching

           profession for some years.          I noticed that this is quite

           often done in many developing countries, even in Southeast

           Asia.

                       MR. WOODS.:    It is an interesting point.

                       MR. McMAHON:     Yes.

                       MR. WOODS:     Thank you very much.

                       Mr. Rajan.

                       MR.   RAJAN~   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                       I, too, join my colleagues in giving my warm sup-

           port to this project.

                       As was brought out in reply to Dr. Donner's ques-

           tion, and it is made in the technical report, it is particu-

           larly refreshing that the Ethiopian Government prefer the

           most economic and minimum standards of buildings.
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                             37

                      I would just invite your reference to parao 70

           of the technical report, in which it says, "Tendering is

           usually public and advertised in the local papers; for the

           proposed project the government will invite international

           bidding for the supply of imported apparatus and equipment,

           but because of the wide variation in conditions at the 78

           building sites of the project, it will probably be advisable

           to award contracts for the construction of buildings to

           Ethiopian contractors experienced in local conditions."

                      Sir, I should have thought this is an eminently

           suitable project in which local contractors really should

           have been asked to bid.     Because, as the technical report

           finds out, there are many large public--private and public

           buildings in Addis Ababa of an excellent        standard • •   There

           is no dearth of experienced contractors.       And I do wish

           that the staff may not have been so apologetic about it,

           particularly when the cost estimates are so low, and the

           buildings are being constructed at such minimum standards.

                      I would now come to another point, on the .consulE-

           ants8 fees.    I believe the consultants will be mainly the

           architects .   It is quoted at $920,000, which, considering

           that the total cost of building is only about $6oS million,

           seems 1 j:o be·_.somewhat on the high side.   And when we are

           adopting minimum standards of construction, and using local

           material and local contractors, I do not know whether it is
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                         38

           necessary to engage such highly costly, and highly priced

           consultants.     I would like an explanation on this.

                     And, also, I would make a reference to parao 61,

           in which it is stated that "It is probably that an architect

           may be available through bilateral aid from the Swedish

           government        "   If so, there should be a saving in

           respect to this item.

                        MR. WOODS:     Yes, Mr. Rajan.
                        Would you respond to those last two questions?

                        The first is an observation by Mr. Rajan.     But the

           two questions are clear questions.

                        Mr. McMAHON:     Yes.
                        Well, the architect,which is coming on bilateral

           aid from the Swedish Government, will be attached to the

           project unit in the Ministry.        And he will act as the

           client's architect; that is to say, he will make sure that

           the drawings .w hich are put forward to the Minis try are

           suitable for the requirements of the schools.        He will work

           with the project manager in supervising the consultants.

                        On the question of the consultants' fees, I have

           dealt with these partly.        I was advised by our architects

           that the normal fee, based on building costs, would be

           about 15%, and this--        What we have done is to take an over-

           all 10% of the project, which is roughly the same figure.

           It may be a little high.        But, as I say, for the very
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                            39
           spread-out nature of the buildings, the amount of super-

           vision which will be required--for example, some schools--

           It took me two days to inspect one school.        I had to fly

           there, inspect the school, and wait for the airplane to

           cane back the next day. This, of course, if an arthitect

           is going out to inspect the schools, and certify work,

           will amount to a great deal of time in the end.         It is a very

           unusual country.      Transportation is limited, very limited

           indeed.     And I think the costs of these fees, the costs of

           supervision, will be quite high, and might well come to the

           figure we have quoted.         We felt we should play safe here and

           make sure they had enough money to cover fees.         If they can

           do it for less, then we shall be very happy.

                        MR. WOODS:   Thank you.

                        Mr.   Malaplate.

                        MR. MALA PLATE:     Mr. Chairman, I am very much in

           favor of this project, too.         It sounds very reasonable.     It

           is not too costly and not to cheap, apparently.

                        I think, really, that all the questions I would

           have liked to ask have already been asked; so I have just

           one left.     That is the question of the geographical implanta-

           tion of these schools.
                        I see, in paragraph 57, that:      "31 secondary

           schools and one primary teacher training institute are

           situated in areas of low population density" and, according
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                40
           to this, "student hostels are therefore proposed for these."

                      I see, too, of course, at the beginning of this

           report, in the summary--that 1 s number iii :.: of' the·   Sl3mlll~ry--

           Where is it?    Here it is. Yes.       That:    "Hostel accommodation

           for about 5% of all students has been included at 32 schools

           after careful study of their geographical location in relatio

           to catchment area."

                      I understand perfectly that it could be necessary

           to have a larger dispersion in the spreading of schools,

           in order to meet the students where they are.           But if there

           is a necessity, nevertheless, to build hostels to accommoda)be

           them, is this large dispersion so necessary; as much neces-

           sary as it could appear the first time?

                      That's my question.

                       MR. WOODS:    Thank you.

                      Would you respond to that?

                      MR. McMAHON:     Yes.

                      Well, there are some areas which have a rather

           sparsely populated population there.           And you have got two

           options:   Ymu'_,reither leave them without a school; or put a

           school there with boarding facilities.

                      If you put boarding facilities, it means that            ~ou

           can collect enough students to fill the school.

                      MR. MALAPLATE:     Yes, I understand this.         But was

           it necessary?
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL

                                                                                   41
                             If we are looking at the map now, at the end of

           the report, we will see that the students are very dispersed

           in the country.           Could it not have been possible--if there

           is in any way a necessity to board the students--to put them

           closer to a town, or in a city or--              I see, for example

           that you are constructing, I think, a new general school in

           a small city called "Gid<!ile!.P--I don't know how it is pro-

           munced in Amharic or in the local language.               Number 36

           at the end, at the south of the map.              And you will build a

           new general school here, with a hostel, and you have ruready;

           or, you will build at the same time in Arba Minch, a little
                            0-
           northea:t at this same location, at about 50 kilometers,
           at about 30 miles north of that, another school.                You will

            extend a senior-junior ·school.           I wonder what a "senior-

            junior" school. is.           Do you have an answer to this?

            Is that a senior-junior high school with a hostel              ~coommmda-

            tion.          Both locations are close together.       Is it necessary

            to have a school at           the place, and another higher school

            at   ~;.:t   ;p l,. a·c.: e so close; and not have all the school communi t

            at the same place in the same area, particularly if the cost

            of s upervision is so high?
                             MR. McMAHON:    This was considered in relation to

            the cost of the project.            Your point is whether it would be

            better to have those two schools on one site, and increase

            the boarding facilitieso
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                               42

                       In fact, in this case, it is cheaper to put up

           a new junior secondary school, so as to collect the

           students.    You can get a much larger proportion of day

           students attending in the day.        You see, we have only got

           5% of all students in boarding       facilities~    and boarding

           facilities are quite expensive to run on a recurring basiso

                       MR. MALAPLATE ~     Thank you.

                       MRo McMAHON:      It is cheaper; ". l:hoggh we have con-

           sidered in many cases whether it is better to put all in

           one school; or, in some cases, to have them separated.             .And,

           there, it was a case for separation.

                       MR. MALAPLATE:     .And in the case, for example, of

           this school in Neghelli--that is more south--in which case

           you are building a       new juniorschool with a hostel--was
                                r

           it necessary to'"do':that, sinbe. "it.1 iS._such a small part of

           the students which will have to be brought here, 5%?

                        MR. McMAHON:      It is 5% over-all.

                       MR. MALAPLATE:      Over-all.

                       MR. McMAHON:      Over-all; right through.     .And, of

           course, some schools will have more than 5%.

                        MR. MALAPLATE:      In other words, we cannot suppose

           that in any school half of the pupilfs will be boarded?

                       MR. McMAHON:      I donrt think they will ever reach

           that proportion of half; no.

                       There was also, in some cases, I might say, a
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                              43

           little political pressure to put the schools in certain

           places.    Not very much of this, but there was some of this, o

           which i think we had to take account--about four or five

           schools were in this category.

                      MR. MALAPLATE:     Thank you for that concession.

                       [Laughter]

                      MR. WOODS:    Thank you.

                       Any other Director?

                       Mr. Reid.

                       MR. REID:    Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                       I would , ai.so ~- !ike to support this national

           project.    So many points have been covered; and the only

           one that is bothering me is the point that the success of

           the project will depend very much on the quality of the

           primary school graduates.

                       I am a bit concerned that if the government does

           go ahead with its intention to triple the number of primary

           school enrollees, the quality of the graduates from the

           primary schools may decline or maybe not improve.          On the

           other hand, the government's desire to triple the primary

           school enrollment, which would still only bring it up to 28%,

           is a very understandable objective.

                       I was wondering whether there are any      a1~     agencies

           involved in assisting the primary schools in Ethiopia.

                       MR. WOODS:     Are there, Mr. McMahon?

                       MR. McMAHON:     No; nothing very much.    A little
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                   44

           UNICEF, . particularly on the teacher training side, of

           course.   They are providing staff for the primary teacher

           training colleges--UNESCO/UNICEF; But nothing for certain

           in primary schoolso

                     MR. WOODS:        Nothing in particular.

                        I wonder whether they will be getting aid from

           anybody else, or whether they wouldn't. : Mr.        Rei.c;l,~   your

           point, if I understand you correctly, is that with such

           a mushrooming in the number of primary school students,

           would there be perhaps some falling off in the quality.

                        Have you any point you would like to express on

           that, Mr. McMahon?

                        MRo McMAHON:     We discussed this point with the

           administration officials out       th~e.   They have hetween--

           There are two factors:        there is the political factor to

           provide every one with primary education, which is under-

           standable.     And there is another point, about the quality

           of the students going down, if they do put all these numbers

           of people in.

                        We hope that common sense will prevail, and that

           they will compromise here and keep the numbers down to

           something reasonable; and only expand their primary schools

           as good trained teachers become availableo           We tried to

           impress this upon them.

                        MRo   WOODS~   I am afraid your question, Mro Reid, is
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                      45

           one of those imponderables.       I don't know how it can be

           answered.     Certainly, the desire and intention of the

           Ethiopian Government to provide wider facilities for

           primary education is not only laudable, but ft is highly

           desirable.     And the secondary system has to be enlarged.

           I suppose there might be some by-product result of a lower

           caliber.    But, if the primary school sys tern gets on a good

           working basis, with good teachers, the opposite might also

           be the resulto

                        Have you anything else?

                        MR. REID :   Well, Mr. Chairman, it may raise the

           general point about the emphasis-f ...    tbat,~ - reiat.ive       emphasis

            should be placed on the     ptimary~ l.ev.el,   •alid: ::-   C)     t..


            the seronda ry level; that, there may be a danger of an

           unbalance arising if perhaps sufficient attention is not

           paid--not to increase the amount of the primary level, but

            the caliber of the primary students.            And it may be that

           it is just a question of how much foreign assistance from

           multilateral and bilateral agencies should be directed to

            the primary sector compared to the secondary sector.

           And by "foreign assistance," I mean technical assistance

            as well as construction costso
                        MR. WOODS:    It is a perfectly good question.

                        Of course, we can't very well control what the

            bilateral people are going to do.         In fact, we don't have
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                           46

           anything much to say about anything except what we do in this

           Board Room.

                        Now, we have crossed the bridge, very recently,

           in the staff level, of going forward faster in 1966 than we

           did in 1965 in the matter of teacher training.      We have

           "lowered," shall I say, Mr. Ballantine, a few of the hurdles

           that our educational division had.      So that, to the extent

           we may, in our small but nevertheless sincere way, participate

           in approaching the problem you [to Mr. Reid] touch on, we

           will be providing facilities to a greater extent.      There will

           be more projects on teacher training in the upcoming year

           than there have been in the past year.      It is a whoihly other

           area, and I don't think, yet, we have got enough experience

           in what we    rn ve set out to do to rn ve a broad discussion
           among ourselves in this area.     We started just about two

           years ago--in March--to get into this educational area to a
                                       not
           greater extent, and we were/beginning to effectively partici-

           pate in it for another six months; so that brought it to

           September, a year ago last September.      So we have been

           operating really for about a year,      or a little more than a

           year, and I don't know how Mr. Knapp feels (he will speak

           for himself), or Mr. Aldewereld; or Mr. Ballantine, who is

           the Head of our Educational Division in the Projects Depart-

           ment, but I have a feeling at least another year ought to go

            by before we get into a broad general discussion about
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                         47

           enlarging our area of activity.

                     In the first instance--for the benefit of Mr. Reid,

           and others who weren't at this table two years ago--we

           deliberately, and after discussion (and it was quite a

           unanimity on this point), came to the conclusion that primary

           education was not for us; it was the job of the country

           itself, with such assistance as it could get bilaterally,
              from
           or/other multilateral agencieso But primary education, we

           concluded, as far as the beginning of our program with

           respect to educational facilities, was not an area for the

           World Bank.   If the country itself, through its own taxing

           and other money-raising activities, couldn't provide primary

           education, why, certainly, we didnRt want to get in it.

           And I don't think we were at a point of varying that.

                     But your point [Mr. Reid's] is well-taken.     We

           are going to be doing more in the matter of teachers, and

           teachers are available for both primary and secondary, and

           other levels of educationo

                     Would you add anything to that, Mr. Knapp?

                     MR. KNAPP:   No; I don't think so.

                     I think we have got all we can chew at the moment

           in the areas we have selected out for specilization.

                     MRo WOODS~   I thought we ought to operate for at

           least two years, ru.d maybe three years, to get a little

           experience.   Since we have really been at this, at the end
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                           48

           of 1964, we have accumulated a very considerable amount of

           experience.       And the discussions in the staff--various

           alternatives in connection with various problems--are much

           better informed, and much more sophisticated than they were

           two or three years ago.

                       Thank you very much.

                       Now, Dro Lieftinck.

                       DR.    LIEFTINCK~   Mr. Chairman, I apologize for the

           second turn.       But I would like to state that I had originally

           the same question as Mro Reid raised.        And I felt that it

           would be very difficult for the authorities to reach their

           goal of increasing the number of primary pupils from 300,000

           to 900,000 in the period of '65 to '69.        But I was very

           much satisfied by the last sentence of paragraph 38, on

           page 10 of tre technical report, where the staff makes a

           rather courageous and blunt statement:        "Output of teachers

           from existing training institutes during 1965-69 is expected

           to be only 3,330; this falls so far short of requirements tha

           full implementation of the government's policy is unrealistic.

           A wiser policy is for an expansion in primary school teacher

           training to which would be geared an expansion of primary

           schools."

                       I think that is exactly the point that should have

           been made by the staff, and I fully agree.

                       MR. WOODS:     Thank you, Dr. Lieftinck.
STRICTLY C NFIDENTIAL
                                                                               49

                            Mr. Merchant.

                            MR. MERCHANT:   I am happy to participate in

           approving this, Mr. Chairman.          I ask a question just out of

           rurios:i:tY".·    I have noted, and I think it has been corrnnented

           on, that the IDA credit in this case includes not only the
                                                           IJNC'iM)
           entire/foreign exchange component in the/project, but half
                   J

           of the local currency expenditures entailed.           And the ques-

            tion I ask, for information, is whether IDA has had sufficient

           experience yet in financing educational projects            as to

           find a general pattern or a tendency to necessarily meet

           at least a portion of the local currency expenditures in s uch

           projects, possibly by reason of the fact that the

           most urgent and meritorious projects in this field may

           well appear in countries where the per capita income is

           relatively low, and the difficulty in mobilizing resources,

           indigenous resources through taxation and so forth, places

           very serious limits on the capabilities of the government

            in question to embark on educational programs of a scope

           and character which are obviously required for the develop-

           ment of the country.

                            Is this a tendency that seems to be a pattern?

                            MR. WOODS:   That's an interesting point, Mr.

           Merchant.

                            Mr. Knapp and I have been discussing ito     I think

           cr   would say we haven't got a pattern, as yet.
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                              50

                       Mr. Knapp, would you respond to this?

                        MR. KNAPP:      Well, I would like to start by

           saying, of course, we don't like to finance local expendi-

           ture on anything in any country unless there is a demon-

           str~tion   in the country of a really good fiscal effort.         So

            that's the starting point.

                       Then, when you get on to looking at the projects,

           I think we have found in the educational field that the edu-

           cational budgets in these countries, and especially in the

           poorer countries, tend to lay a pretty heavy burden; and it

           encourages us to be sympathetic, if there was some basic

           underlying fiscal performance, to help them in this area

           by moving up toward figures of say 60/a.          In this case,

            two-thirds--66 2/3's--is frankly on the high side.

                        But a very poor country, and very heavy budgetary

           problems, and a good fiscal effort.

                        But I wouldn't say we have a formula to it.          It is

           kind of looking at it .case by case in terms of, first, the

            over-all pattern of the country's requirements; and then the

            project basis.

                        MRo MERCHANT:     Thank you.

                        MR. WOODS:   Thank you, Mr. Knapp.

                        Anyone else on this?     [Silence]

                        The motion is in the document, gentlemen.

                        [Showing of hands]     It is movedo
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                              51
                     Is there a   seco~d?    [Showing of hands]

                     All those in favor, please so indicate.

                     [Showing of hands]

                     Opposed?     [None]

                     Thank you, gentlemen.     This resolution is adopted.

                     I must say that it is very welcome, indeed, to

           have this evidence of the care and thoughtfulness with which

           the Directors have examined this document in connection

           with this project on education.

                      The Directors--in meeting, and     discussing, ~ .and


           asking questions, and finally approving or disapproving

           these projects--perform a function that is necessary in

           that regard.   But there is a very important periphery

           function that is performed as a result of this type of dis-

           cussion,uwhich is pretty clear evidence to the members of

           the staff that their papers ought to be in good shape.       And I

           am grateful for the extensive comment and the number of

           questions this morning, which, without exception, indicated

           a very real familiarity with the document.

                     I think, perhaps--as was the case with me--this

           education thing is still one of these that we are making

           precedents on all the time.      But, thank you very much for

           your questions and comments this morning.

                     Mr. Garba.

                     MR. GARBA:     Mr. Chairman, I would like to express
STRICTLY CONFIDl;~·tiAL
                .. .· ~ ;~.::. . :



                                                                                       52
          my appreciation to my F-ellow Directors              fo~approving     this
                                                             , also, to
          development credit to the Empire of Ethiopia; c:in4.
          the staff and management for their very efficient handling

          of the ·negotiations.

                                 Thank you.


                                              /1 .   r-·       ~:
                                                                    /   .
                                                                            ~
                                                                            .



                                                     ~~~~7




                                                           i    .
