CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 840 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 840 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 19, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of Parts A (iv), (v) and (vi), C, D (i),
E and F of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intendu to contract from the African
Development Fund, a loan (hereinafter called the ADF Loan) in an
amount equivalent to five million two hundred fifty thousand Units
of Account of the African Development Fund (ADF U.A.5,250,000)
to assist in financing equipment, spare parts and tools for Parts
A (i) through (iv) and (vii) of the Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADF
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
African Development Fund;
(C) the Borrower further intends to contract from the United
States of America, acting through its Agency for International
Development, a grant (hereinafter called the USAID Grant) in an
amount of nine million dollars ($9,000,000) to assist in financing
Parts B and D (ii), (iii) and (iv) of the Project, on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
USAID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the United States of America;
(D) pursuant to development credit agreements dated
August 14, 1968, and June 28, 1974 (hereinafter called the 1968
Development Credit Agreement and the 1974 Development Credit
Agreement, respectively), the Association has made available to
the Borrower two development credits (No. 125 CD and No. 490 CD,
respectively) for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in carry-
ing out two prior highway projects; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MEP" means Ministere de 1 'Economie et du Plan, the
Borrower's ministry responsible inter alia for transport planning,
or any successor thereto;
(b) "MTPMG" means Minist&re des Travaux Publics, des Mines
et de la Gologie, the Borrower's ministry responsible inter
alia for road maintenance, or any successoi thereto;
(c) "DT" means the Direction des Transports within MEP,
or any successor thereto;
(d) 'DTP" means the Direction des Travaux Publics within
MTPMG, or any successor thereto;
(e) "CTT" means the Coopfrative des Transporteurs Tchadiens,
an association of truck owners in the form of a share company
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No.
166/AGRI/IC dated September 30, 1961;
(f) "Road Fund" means the fund established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 33 dated January 8, 1960, and
Decree No. 33/TP dated February 20, 1960, as amended by Ordinance
No. 009/P.CSM dated May 19, 1978, and as such Law, Decree and
Ordinance may be further amended from time to time;
(g) "19#4 Development Credit Agreement" means the develop-
ment credit agreement (Second Highway Project) dated June 28,


﻿-3-
1974, between the Borrower and the Association, as last amended by
exchange of letters dated March 9 and April 18, 1978', between the
Association and the Borrower anO further amended pursuant to
Section 6.02 of this Agreement, and as such agreement may be
further amended from time to time; and such term includes the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such
agreement, all agreements supplemental and all schedules to such
agreement; and
(h) "Second Highway Project" means the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the 1974 Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million six hundred thousand dollars ($7,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a Special Account in the Banque de Developpement du Tchad
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section an initial amount in the currency of the Borrower not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent and shall thereafter, at the request
of the Borrower, further withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required
to reimburse the Borrower for payments made out of the Special
Account for expenditures for the Project eligible for financing
under the Development Credit Agreement, but only to the extent


﻿-4-
that the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such request,
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $100,000.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment out of the Special Account such documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure
not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Credit Account;
or (ii) is not supported by the evidence required pursuant to
paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, deposit in the Special Account an
amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, no further deposits in the Special Account shall be
made if the Association shall have determined that such deposits
will not be needed to finance goods or services required for the
Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each


﻿-5-
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1988, and ending
February 1, 2028, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C,
D (i) and D (iv) (a) of the Project through its MTPMG and Parts D
(ii), (iii) and (iv) (b) and Part E of the Project through its
MEP, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, planning, training, economic, financial
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower
shall carry out Part F of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the 1974 Development Credit Agreement.
(c) In order to carry out its obligations under paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this Section and without any limitation or restric-
tion upon such obligations, the Borrower shall allocate not less
than 87% of current Road Fund revenues, or such other percentage
as the Borrower and the Association may from time to time agree,
to the financing of recurrent operating costs under the Project
which are not financed by external sources, and of ferryboat
operations and maintenance.
(d) Not later than December 31, 1979, the Borrower shall
review in consultation with the Association: (i) the amount of the
Borrower's contribution required to meet the operating costs under
the Project until completion thereof; and (ii) the feasibility of
increasing Road Fund revenues in order to cover all recurrent
road maintenance expenditures, including equipment depreciation.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist MTPMG and MEP in car-
rying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ specialists
assigned to DTP, DT and CTT and consultants as set forth in Parts
A and B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association. Such specialists and consultants shall have
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for prior
review and concurrence by the Association, the proposed contracts
for any specialists and consultants' services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit as well as any proposed material
modification of any such contract.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon
its obligations under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall employ within DTP and DT qualified local personnel
as required for the diligent and efficient execution of the
Project. Except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, such personnel shall include, inter alios, the key staff
listed in Parts C and D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement who shall
be trained on-the-job by the technical assistance specialists
assigned to the respective units of DTP and to DT in accordance
with the provisions of Parts A and B.1 of said Schedule.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation1 and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(d) In order to carry out its obligations pursuant to
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section and without limitation
thereon, the Borrower shall appoint a Project coordinator whose
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association and who shall be responsible for, inter alia: (i)
keeping the Association currently informed of the progress of
the Project and, in particular, furnishing to the Association
quarterly Project progress reports of such scope and in such form
and detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and (ii)
preparing a final report to serve as a basis for the Project
completion report to be furnished by the Borrower to the Associa-
tion pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to make available, as and when needed, all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.07. (a) The roads and tracks to be included in
Parts A (i) and (ii) of the Project shall be those agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association and shall be maintained
to standards acceptable to the Association.
(b) Not later than October 31 of each year until completion
of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
review and concurrence by the Association: (i) any proposed
changes in the tracks to be maintained under Part A (ii) (b) of
the Project during the following year; and (ii) the work program
proposed to be carried out under Part A (iii) of the Project
during the following year, including actual or estimated traffic
data for the roads proposed to be included in such program and
such other technical or economic information regarding the justi-
fication of the maintenance works proposed to be carried out under
such program as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.08. In order to carry out Part B of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1978, prepare and
furnish to the Association, for review and concurrence by the
Association, a detailed program and curriculum for the training
activities to be carried out under said Part of the Project; and
(ii) not later than December 31, 1979, review the training
requirements for the carrying out of the Project and the measures
to be taken in order to meet such requirements in consultation
with the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall award the fellowships under
Part D (iv) of the Project to recipients with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall retain or cause to be retained
until one year after the Closing Date, as part of the records
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, all documentation


﻿-9-
(orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
tures, and shall enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to inspect such records; and (ii) shall have such certifi-
cates of expenditures examined and certified by its Ordonnateur
D616gu. des Aides Exterieures, or his deputy, before transmit-
ting them to the Association in order to ensure that the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
such certificates are being used for the purpose for which they
are provided.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain a separate
account for the Road Fund in a banking institution acceptable to
the Association; and (ii) allocate to the Road Fund the amounts
collected from fuel taxes and ferryboat tolls.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the revenues and
expenditures of the Road Fund, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, sub-accounts for the Road Fund revenues allocated
to and expended for the Project; and (ii) furnish to the Associa-
tion for each calendar semester until completion of the Project,
within one month after the end of such semester, a summary semi-
annual statement indicating: (A) the resources available in the
Road Fund as of the end of such semester; (B) the revenues
allocated to the Road Fund during said semester; and (C) the
expenditures financed out of the resources of the Road Fund during
said semester, broken down by major categories of disbursement
and showing, in particular, the amount of such expenditures for
the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the roads, tracks and
ferries included in the Project and its road maintenance equipment
to be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs
thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate
technical and economic standards, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the foregoing.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such measures as shall
be reasonably required to eniure that the dimensions and axle-
loads of vehicles using the Borrower's road network are consistent
with the design standards of the roads used.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall collect and record in
accordance with appropriate methods and procedures (including
traffic counts) such technical, economic and financial information
as shall be reasonably required for proper monitoring and planning
of maintenance, improvements and extensions of its road network.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Law, the Decree or the Ordinance referred to in
paragraph (f) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement and governing the
establishment and operation of the Road Fund, or any provision of
such Law, Decree or Ordinance, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated or repealed so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to carry out its responsibilities for the
execution of the Project.
(b) Any construction sites, facilities, roads or tracks
included in the Project shall not be accessible to representatives
of the Association as required for the efficient supervision of
the execution of the Project.
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project,
including the ADF Loan and the USAID Grant,
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of


﻿- 11 -
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(b) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Sectton 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified
in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Amendments to the 1968 Development
Credit Agreement and the 1974
Development Credit Agreement
Sectio-i 6.01. The 1968 Development Credit Agreement is
amended as follows: Sections 4.02 and 4.08 of the 1968 Development
Credit Agrtement are deleted and Sections 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of
this Agreement are substituted therefor.
Section 6.02. The 1974 Development Credit Agreement is
amended as follows:
(a) Sections 4.03 (a) and 4.07 of the 1974 Development
Credit Agreement are deleted and Sections 4.02 (a) (i) and 4.03,
respectively, of this Agreement are substituted therefor; and
(b) Sections 4.03 (c) and 4.04 of the 1974 Development
Credit Agreement are deleted.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The .-1owing events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the key staff of DTP listed iv paragraphs 1 (a), (b)
and (c), and 2 (a) and (b) of Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment has been appointed in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;


﻿- 12 -
(b) the ADF Loan Agreement and the USAID Grant Agreement
have been duly signed and all conditions, if any, precedent to
initial disbursements under said Agreements, except for the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been
fulfilled; and
(c) the Special Account has been opened as provided in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date December 18, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist5re de 1'Economie
et du Plan
B.P. 286
N'Djamfna
Republic of Chad
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIPLAN                           MFBM E 5257 KD
N'Djam&ina                         N'Djamfna


﻿For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By // Pierre Toura Gaba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Xavier de la Renaudiare
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works under            1,900,000         100%
Parts A (iv), (v)
and (vi) of the
Project
(2) Ferryboat construc-          1,200,000         100%
tion materials,
equipment and work-
shop tools, and
design and construc-
tion of ferryboats,
including technical
assistance, under
Part C of the Project
(3) Technical assis-              2,000,000        100%
tance to DTP and
office furniture,
equipment and
supplies for Part
D (i) of the
Project
(4) Consultants' ser-               300,000        100%
vices for Part E
of the Project
(5) Construction mate-               50,000        100%
rials for Part F
of the Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Operating costs                 350,000         90%
under Part F of
the Project
(7) Initial advance                 100,000
under Section
2.02 (c) to
finance items
referred to under
Categories 2 and
3 above
(8) Unallocated                   1,700,000
TOTAL         7,600,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
(a) for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) for expenditures under Category (1), until the Borrower
shall have appointed the key staff of DTP listed in paragraphs 1
(d) and (e), 2 (c), (d) and (e), and 3 of Part C of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03
of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is primarily designed to improve road maintenance
operations, to strengthen the planning of transport sector devel-
opment and to increase the efficiency of the trucking industry; it
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Road Maintenance Program
A road maintenance program of about four years, com-
prising:
(i) Routine maintenance of about 2,400 km of gravel
and earth roads and tracks during four years,
including both mechanical and manual routine
maintenance operations.
(ii) Routine mechanical grading: (a) of about 1,600 km
of tracks during four years; and (b) of about
1,300 km of additional tracks per year subject to
changes to be agreed upon annually between the
Borrower and the Association.
(iii) Periodic maintenance of about 100 km per year
of main gravel roads through regravelling by the
training/production brigade provided under Part B
(ii) of the Project, covering in the aggregate
about 400 km of such roads.
(iv) Establishment and equipping of about 17 DTP road
maintenance gangs for the purpose of carrying out
manual routine maintenance under Part A (i) of the
Project, each responsible for a road sector of
about 100 km to 200 km, including construction of
office and storage facilities for 14 of these
sectors.
(v) Construction of a garage and improvement of office
buildings and workshops for each of the five DTP
subdivisions at N'Djamena, Abfche, Mongo, Moundou
and Sarh.
(vi) Construction of a garage for road maintenance
equipment, of a store for spare parts, and of


﻿- 18 -
buildings for the equipment inspection office and
the procurement office provided under Parts D (i)
(a) and (b), respectively, of the Project, and
improvement of the central workshop, all for DTP's
central equipment services at N'Djam&na.
(vii)   Repairs and reconditioning of DTP's existing road
maintenance equipment.
Part B:   Training of Road Maintenance Personnel
A training program of about four years for DTP personnel
in road maintenance, road improvement and related
operations, including:
(i) Formal and on-the-job training of about 225 mechan-
ics, technicians and equipment operators, and of
the chiefs of the road maintenance sectors referred
to under Part A (iv) of the Project.
(ii) Establishment, equipping and operation of a mechan-
ical training/production brigade.
Per diem allowances and adequate incentives (such as
performance bonuses) shall be provided to trainees under
this Part of the Project in order to recruit and retain
qualified personnel for such training.
Part C:   Ferryboat Construction
Construction and putting into service of four ferryboats
with a capacity of about 50 tons each to replace the
existing ferries at Bongor, Bousso, Hellibongo and LaT.
Part D:   Strengthening of Transport Sector Institutions
(i) Strengthening of DTP equipment maintenance, pro-
curement and road planning services, including
establishment, equipping, staffing and initial
operation of:
(a) an equipment inspection office responsible
for supervision of equipment procurement and
maintenance and introduction of cost account-
ing procedures;


﻿- 19 -
(b) a procurement office responsible for procure-
ment of spare parts and other materials
required for maintenance of DTP equipment;
and
(c) a road planning and design office responsible
for basic road planning and engineering
studies, supervision of road construction and
evaluation of projects in the road sector.
(ii) Strengthening and equipping of DT services respon-
sible for: (a) collection of transport data,
to be published in an annual report on transport
statistics; (b) preparation of transport sector
studies; (c) interdepartmental coordination of
transport planning and road traffic regulation and
enforcement; and (d) monitoring and regulation of
the transport industry.
(iii) Improvement of CTT's freight transport opera-
tions.
(iv) Fellowships for staff training abroad under train-
ing programs acceptable to the Association for the
purposes of: (a) Part D (i) of the Project; and (b)
Parts D (ii) and (iii) of the Project.
Part E:   Rural Roads Study
A study: (i) to define road needs and appropriate road
transport and construction technologies for the develop-
ment of selected rural areas, and a program for the
maintenance, improvement and construction of rural
transport facilities; (ii) to identify a future project
for the development of rural transport and complementary
infrastructure; and (iii) to further prepare such future
project, if it is technically feasible and economically
justified.
Part F:   Improvement and Maintenance of Cotton Feeder Roads
Completion of the feeder road improvement and mainte-
nance program being carried out under Part A of the


﻿- 20 -
Second Highway Project, covering about 760 km of feeder
roads in cotton-growing areas as specified in the
Exhibit to Schedule 2 to the 1974 Development Credit
Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   E: ipt as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts B.4 and D hereof, contracts
for the purchase of office furniture, equipment and supplies,
and for works shall be procured on the basis of competitive


﻿- 22 -
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.   Bidders for the civil works shall be prequalified.
3.   Civil works shall be carried out under unit price contracts.
4.   Contracts for minor purchases of materials and workshop tools
required for ferryboat construction and of office supplies may be
procured on the basis of solicitations of price quotations from
suppliers; provided, however, that the price of the contracts so
procured shall, in the aggregate, not exceed the equivalent of
$60,000 or such other amount as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
5.   Procurement of goods and civil works for Part F of the
Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
1974 Development Credit Agreement.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modi-
fications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $75,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably


﻿- 23 -
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suffi-
cient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it


﻿-24 -
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
The construction of the ferryboats under Part C of the
Project shall be carried out on force account by the services
of DTP; provided, however, that if construction on force account
cannot be expected to be completed within about 30 months from the
date of the call for tenders for the ferryboat construction
materials, a portion of said works shall be carried out under
contracts procured in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1
of this Schedule, as required to complete ferryboat construction
within such period.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Technical Assistance and Staffing
(Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement)
A.  Technical Assistance to MTPG
Approximate
1.   For the training of DTP road maintenance            Number of
personnel (Part B of the Project):                  Man-months
(a) 1 mechanical or highway engineer,
as team leader;                                    45
(b) J road maintenance and construction
specialist;                                        40
(c) 1 heavy equipment mechanic;                         45
(4) 1 equipment operator training specialist;           40
(e)  I chief of training brigade; and                   40
(f) 1 technical/adinistrative training
specialist                                        20
TOTAL   230
2.   For the preparation of the technical
specifications and design of the ferry-
boats, of the procurement documents for
ferryboaL construation materials and tools
and the supervision of ferryboat construc-
tion (Part C of the Project):
Engineering consultants                                16
3.   For the strengthening of DTP equipment
maintenance and procurement services (Parts
D (i) (a) and (b) of the Project):
(a) 1 mechanical engineer or senior techni-
cian, as team leader and to assist in
the establishment of the equipment
inspection office;                                30


﻿- 26 -
Approximate
Number of
Man-months
(b) 1 senior mechanical technician, to
assist in the establishment of the
procurement office; and                           30
(c) 4 mechanics to be assigned to
DTP subdivision workshops                        120
TOTAL   180
4.   For the strengthening of DTP road
planning and design services (Part D
(i) (c) of the Project):
1 engineer/transport economist                          25
B.   Technical Assistance to MEP
1.   For the strengthening of DT transport
sector planning services (Part D (ii)
of the Project):
1 transport economist                                  30
2,   For the improvement of CTT operations
(Part D (iii) of the Project):
1 trucking industry specialist                         15
3.   For the rural roads study (Part E of
the Project):
Economic and engineering consultants'
services                       /                       35
TOTAL    80


﻿- 27 -
C.   Key Staff of DTP
1.   For the equipment inspection office provided under -Fart D (i)
of the Project:
(a) 1 mechanical or highway engineer, it being understood
that this position shall be filled with a mechanical
engineer not later than October 31, 1979;
(b) 1 chief mechanic;
(c) 3 equipment controllers;
(d) 2 mechanics; and
(e) 2 accountants.
2.   For the procurement office provided under Part D (i) (b) of
the Project:
(a) 1 procurement officer;
(b) 1 forwarding officer;
(c) 1 mechanic;
(d) 1 accountant; and
(e) 3 storemen.
3.   For the DTP subdivisions:
(a) 5 equipment fleet chiefs; and
(b) 5 subdivision workshop chiefs;
one of each for each of the five DTP subdivisions.
D.   Key Staff of DT
(a) 1 local counterpart to the transport economist referred
to in Part B.1 of this Schedule;
(b) 1 statistician; and
(c) 2 assistants for data collection and field work.


