Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15314
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3408-IVC,CREDITS 2303-0-IVC and 2303-1-IVC)
JANUARY 30, 1996
Trade, Finance, and Investment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc1
US$1        CFA franc 532 (October 5, 1994)
SYSTEM OF WVEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           African Development Bank
BCEAO         Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BIAOCI        Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale de C6te d'lvoire
BICICI        Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie de C6te d'lvoire
BNDA          Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
BOAD          Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement
CAA           Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAISTAB       Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits Agricoles
CFA franc    Franc de la Communaute Financiere Africaine
CFD           Caisse Frangaise de Developpement
CIDA          Canadian International Development Association
CREP          Caisse Rurale d'Epargne et de Prets
EU            European Union
EECI          Energie Electrique de C6te d'lvoire
FSAP          Financial Sector Adjustment Program
GDD           Gestion des Dep6ts
GVC           Groupements a Vocation Cooperative
LFSDP         Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy
MTF           Medium-Term Economic Framework
REER          Real Effective Exchange Rate
SGBCI         Societe Genetale de Banque de C6te d'lvoire
SIB           Societe Ivoirienne de Banque
SME           Small and medium enterprises
UEMOA         Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine
The CFA franc exchange rate is fixed at a rate of 100:1 as of January 12, 1994 with the French franc. The latter is a floating
currency.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                                 i - iv
Part I - Program Implementation Assessment
1. Country Background                                                              1
2. Sector Background                                                               1
3. Project Background                                                              2
4. The Financial Sector Adjustment Program (FSAP)                                  2
A. Objectives and Design                                                       2
B. Achievement of Objectives                                                   3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                         6
D. Project Sustainability                                                      7
E. Bank's Performance                                                          7
F. Borrower's Performance                                                      8
G. Assessment of Outcome                                                      10
H. Future Operation                                                           10
I. Key Lessons Learned                                                        11
Part II - Statistical Annexes
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments                                                 13
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits                                             14
Table 3:   Project Timetable                                                      15
Table 4:   Ln. 3408-IVC, Cr. 2303-0-IVC and Cr. 2303-1-IVC Disbursements          15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation                              16
Table 6:   Studies Included in Project                                           20
Table 7:   Project Financing                                                     20
Table 8:   Status of Legal Covenants                                             21
Table 9:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                         25
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                           26
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions                                               26
Appendices:  A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3408-IVC, Credits 2303-0-IVC and 2303-1-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Sector Adjustment
Program (FSAP) in C6te d'Ivoire, for which Loan 3408-IVC in the amount of US$150.0 million
and Credit 2303-0-IVC in the amount of SDR 37.6 million were approved on October 1, 1991 and
made effective on December 13, 1991. A supplemental credit of SDR 72.4 million, Credit 2303-1-
IVC, was approved on February 8, 1994.
Credit 2303-0-IVC was closed on September 30, 1993 as planned. Loan 3408-IVC was
closed on June 30, 1994, nine months after the original closing date. The first tranche, released
upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by January 12, 1992. Given that C6te d'Ivoire was no
longer creditworthy to borrow at IBRD terms, the US$100.0 million second tranche of the loan
was canceled on January 15, 1994, upon the request of the Government and replaced on February
8, 1994 by Credit 2303-1-IVC. The only tranche, released upon effectiveness, was totally
disbursed by February 27, 1992. Credit 2303-1-IVC was closed on June 30, 1994, after full
disbursement on March 3, 1994. Parallel financing for the project was provided by Caisse
Francaise de D6veloppement (CFD) (CFA franc 18 billion) and African Development Bank (ADB)
(50 million of accounting units).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Andr6 Ryba, Task Manager, AF3IE, and reviewed by Mr.
Peter Watson, Division Chief, AF4TF and Mr. Franz Kaps, Operations Advisor, AF4DR. The
borrower's contribution to the ICR is in Appendix B of this report, together with an English
summary.
Preparation of this ICR was started in September 1994. It is based on materials in the
project file, discussions with the project task manager, and a completion mission that took place
November 5-9, 1994 in Abidjan. The Aide-M6moire of the mission, included in Appendix A,
together with an English summary, details the assessment of the program provided by the main
partners in the project, the Government, the Central Bank, banks, insurance companies, financial
operators and some donors.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3408-IVC, Credits 2303-0-IVC and 2303-1-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. Until the early 1980s, Bank lending to C6te d'lvoire was project-oriented;
since that time, it has shifted substantially toward structural adjustment. Between 1981 and 1991,
three structural adjustment loans and six sector adjustment loans were approved.  This shift
reflected the need to address the profound structural and macroeconomic problems confronting the
country. The Financial Sector Adjustment Program (FSAP)l is one of three sector adjustment
loans approved in 1991. The two others are in the areas of competitiveness improvement and
human resources development.
2.    Project Objectives. The FSAP supported a program of the Government of C6te d'lvoire
aimed at: (a) stabilizing the financial system; and (b) restoring healthy financial intermediation to
enhance resource mobilization and help finance productive investments in support of the country's
adjustment program  and growth strategy.  The reforms covered key aspects of financial
intermediation, including restructuring of banks, insurance companies and the Abidjan Stock
Exchange. The reform program involved, as a necessary complement to financial sector reform,
strengthening the policy environment which focused on: (a) the conduct of monetary policy; (b)
bank supervision; (c) regulation and supervision of insurance companies; and (d) the judiciary
framework. The high priority action was the liquidation of development banks involving loss of
jobs and deposits, and the restructuring of commercial banks that comprised settlement of all
Government arrears, absorption of past losses by shareholders at the pro rata of their participation
in the capital, recapitalization by private partners, Government disengaging itself from the capital
of commercial banks, reduction in operating costs through staff cuts and closing of branches,
management change, strengthening of internal procedures and strong efforts at loan recovery. A
four-year plan was established and signed with each of the four large commercial banks, spelling
out the efforts of each partner and showing a return to sustained profitability.
3.    The program was originally supported by an IBRD loan of US$150 million and an IDA
credit of US$50 million equivalent. Eventually, the second IBRD tranche of US$100 million was
replaced by an IDA credit, thus resulting in two IDA credits totaling US$150 million equivalent. It
spanned a period of 30 months with a slippage of nine months over the original plan. The FSAP
was complex and ambitious in design. It was comprehensive, touching on many aspects of
financial intermediation. While priority was placed on averting the development of a financial
crisis and returning the major commercial banks to liquidity and solvency, comprehensive reforms
1 The FSAP (in French PASFI) comprises Ln. 3408-IVC, Cr. 2303-0-IVC and Cr. 2303-1-IVC.



ii
were concurrently addressed in monetary policy, the regulation and supervision of financial
institutions, the operations of government agencies in the financial sector, and the judiciary
framework. Efforts were also mobilized to diversify and deepen the financial system. The
insurance industry was to be rehabilitated; the Abidjan Stock Exchange restructured and
modernized; and steps were to be taken that would lead to the development of a regional capital
market. (The rural network of mutualistic savings and credit corporations was to be expanded, but
this was to be addressed in a separate project.)
4.    As acknowledged in the President's Report and various internal memoranda, the FSAP was
a high risk operation. At the time it was sent to the Board, macro stability, a prerequisite for the
success of a financial sector reform, was missing. Serious concerns had been raised in the Bank
about the timing of the FSAP as macro conditions were not propitious (recession for four
consecutive years, substantial foreign and domestic arrears, declining terms of trade, overvalued
currency, large fiscal deficit, low investment). The medium-term framework program to which the
Bank agreed did not explicitly address the issue of parity change which was one key obstacle to
regaining external competitiveness. Nevertheless, in October 1991, the Bank, having received oral
assurances on this issue, moved forward and approved the FSAP.
5.    Implementation Experience and Results.  The program  fared as envisaged after
effectiveness. However, as time passed without the expected improvement in the macroeconomic
framework and disbursement of the second tranche became elusive, the initial enthusiasm waned.
Donor release of funds was contingent upon return of the country's external competitiveness. If
not for the devaluation which removed that one main obstacle, it would have been difficult for the
Bank to release the second tranche.
6.    Conditionality for release of the second tranche was a mixture of sector specific actions and
a broad macroeconomic objective to reduce the real effective exchange rate (REER) to its mid-1985
level. The loss of international competitiveness was one of the main reasons for the fiscal deficit
and achieving a primary fiscal surplus was critical for the reduction in Government arrears to the
banking sector and for the maintenance of the health of the financial sector.
7.    Despite the risks involved, an expectation of a quick restoration of the macro framework, a
local economic management team with substantial banking experience that was willing and able to
implement reforms, and the fact that all conditions but one for a successful financial sector
operation had been met, tipped the balance in favor of proceeding with the program. It was
unanimously acknowledged that despite the high risks incurred, the operation was much needed.
Project implementation has been consistent with the reforms and stages envisaged in the policy
matrix of the Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy (LFSDP). Given the unfavorable
circumstances, the program was surprisingly successful in attaining the objectives that had been set
out, though some not in their entirety. After a two year hiatus due to continued macroeconomic
instability and budget constraints, the January 1994 devaluation put the program back on track and
objectives were subsequently met. A large number of measures were implemented. The FSAP
contributed markedly to reducing Government arrears towards the commercial banks and to
improving the liquidity and profitability of commercial banks and restoring their solvency. The
recovery corporation set up to recover bad debts transferred by five liquidated development banks
had some limited success compared with its objectives, but performed better than similar agencies



iii
in other countries.  The stock exchange has been restructured with its staff downsized, its
Government subsidy ended and a new quotation system  introduced.  However, independent
supervisory mechanisms have not yet been established.  Regulation and supervision of the
insurance industry was strengthened and several insurance companies were either restructured or
closed. Measures were taken to strengthen the judiciary apparatus, but do not appear to have had
the expected beneficial impacts on its working. At the regional level, reforms introduced by
Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) include: (a) liberalization of interest
rates and bank margins; (b) an auction money market; (c) introduction of reserve requirements; (d)
development of monetary programming; (e) establishment of a regional banking commission; (f)
introduction of strict prudential regulations; and (g) regular audits of banking institutions.
Sustainability is likely now that the exchange rate has been realigned and macroeconomic
conditions are continuing to improve. The program contributed to the success of the devaluation; it
is clear that the financial system as it existed before the program would have constituted a
substantial impediment to the post-devaluation supply response. Cameroon, for instance, whose
financial sector remained distressed a year and a half after the devaluation, did not experience the
same response.
8.     Bank's and Borrower's Performance. Government officials and Bank staff maintained a
constant dialogue throughout preparation and implementation of the project.  Technical and
financial details for the restructuring plan of the banking and insurance sectors were worked out
over two years of close collaboration between the Government, the Bank, other cofinanciers and
financial sector operations. Government's commitment remained strong throughout most of the
FSAP except for a temporary dampening of enthusiasm when implementation slowed as
disbursement of the second tranche was withheld.  The Bank contributed to the program  by
focusing on design and on intense monitoring and supervision to support implementation. The
IMF, IFC, ADB, European Union (EU) and CFD provided a valuable partnership through parallel
financing and close exchange of information and views.
9.    Assessment of Outcome.  The outcome of the FSAP is rated satisfactory.  Its overall
implementation record is positive; the project achieved its overall objectives, and most reforms
initially planned were in fact implemented. As a result, C6te d'lvoire benefits today from a solvent
and competitive financial sector.
10.   Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.  The operation
illustrates the merits of setting conditionality in a precise fashion rather than in terms of broad
objectives.   This practice facilitates supervision and agreement on the meaning of the
conditionality. In addition, focus was put on only a limited number of conditions essential to
achieve the program objectives. The FSAP also confirms that Government commitment and
political support are key elements for success. Finally, program implementation highlights the
intensive supervision that adjustment programs require, particularly when implementation is drawn
out by delayed compliance. Such supervision requires strong familiarity with country economics,
institutions and legislation and a close and continuous follow-up of macroeconomic developments
and sector performance. It was fortunate that there was continuity in Bank staffing throughout the
entire cycle of the FSAP. C6te d'Ivoire's experience indicates that it may be worthwhile to take a
calculated risk by initially going ahead with a restructuring program in the absence of a suitable
macro framework if restructured institutions are shielded from the negative impact of an



iv
unfavorable macro environment by a conservative, independent, and private management backed
by a strong political will to implement reforms, restore market mechanisms and instill strong
regulation and supervision.
11.   From the project's shortcomings, the following lessons can be learned. Bank privatization
should be a Board condition, not a condition for tranche release. It will have greater chances of
success as it is always a difficult political issue. True reforms of the workings of the judiciary
apparatus are hard to come by. Even when reforms of laws and institutions are implemented,
attitudes are difficult to change. Achieving reforms in the context of regional institutions--central
bank (BCEAO), economic and monetary union (Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine,
UEMOA) and a francophone Africa-wide initiative to harmonize business laws (OHADA)--is
particularly difficult.
12.   The Ivorian financial sector has been restored to health. No specific measures are required
to follow up on the project; however, the time has come to proceed with financial deepening. A
Bank-supported regional project aims at establishing the regional Stock Exchange for the seven
UEMOA countries (Benin, C6te d'Ivoire, Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo). The
Stock Exchange will replace the Abidjan Stock Exchange. The Bank is currently carrying out a
SDR 1.5 million credit that, in cooperation with the Canadian International Development
Association (CIDA) and CFD, is helping to develop the system of rural mutualistic credit and
savings cooperatives. A second FSAP could further reforms in the following areas: (a) the
intermediation of short-term liquidity into a reliable source of term finance; (b) financing of small
and medium enterprises; (c) improvement of the social security institution and the postal savings
system; (d) taxation of financial intermediation; and (e) creation of new instruments for capital
markets.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3408-IVC, Credits 2303-0-IVC and 2303-1-IVC)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    Country Background. C6te d'lvoire is a key member of the West Africa Economic and
Monetary Union (UEMOA), which also includes six other countries (B6nin, Burkina Faso, Mali,
Niger, Senegal and Togo). After a period of rapid economic growth in the 1960s and 1970s when
gross domestic product more than quadrupled and real per capita income tripled, Cote d'Ivoire
experienced a protracted economic decline in the 1980s. Public overspending during the boom
years and a collapse in the terms of trade were the main reasons for swelling fiscal deficits,
increased foreign and domestic debt and declining per capita real income.
2.    In 1981, C6te d'Ivoire embarked on a structural adjustment program with support from the
IMF and the World Bank. The program lasted six years, improving internal and external balances,
and in 1985-86 there was a mild economic upturn. However, in 1987, recession returned with a
vengeance. The country's terms of trade deteriorated sharply, adjustment was abandoned, and
destabilization followed. As a result, World Bank lending was interrupted for a two-year period. In
mid-1989, the Government launched the first phase of a new comprehensive stabilization and
recovery program aimed at correcting, through internal adjustment, the country's macroeconomic
imbalances and its increasing lack of international competitiveness. The program was supported by
an IMF stand-by arrangement and three World Bank financed SECALs in the agriculture, energy,
and water supply and sanitation sectors. Progress was made in implementing the structural reforms
and reducing the fiscal deficit, but not enough to reduce domestic and external arrears. After ten
years of macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms, the Ivorian economy remained in bad shape.
Benefits derived from the reforms were more than offset by the continuing decline in terms of trade
and the overvaluation of the currency. In 1991, Government embarked on the second phase of the
program and prepared a medium-term framework (MTF) for deeper structural reforms. It was
supported by three more World Bank SECALs in the areas of finance, competitiveness and
regulatory reform, and human resources development.  The MTF recognized that the loss of
competitiveness was the root cause of the deteriorating  economy.   Restoring  external
competitiveness was thus made one of the main conditions for the second tranche release of the
three SECALs.
3.    Sector Background. Cote d'Ivoire shares the same central bank BCEAO with the six other
UEMOA member countries. It uses a common currency, the CFA franc, which is pegged to the
French franc (FF) at a fixed parity. From 1948 until January 1994, the rate was CFA franc 50 to
the FF; since January 1994, it has been CFA franc 100 to the FF. Cote d'lvoire's financial system



C6te d 'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                     2
is fairly diversified: in 1991, 14 commercial banks with a total of 165 branches were operating
throughout the country. Four large retail banks, of which three are affiliated with major French
banks (Banque International pour l'Afrique Occidentale de C6te d'Ivoire, BICICI, to the Banque
Nationale de Paris, Societe Generale de Banque de C6te d'Ivoire, SGBCI, to Societe Generale and
Societ6 Ivoirienne de Banque, SIB, to Credit Lyonnais) together accounted for around 90 percent of
loans, deposits and refinancing from the Central Bank.  Citibank, Paribas and more recently
Belgolaise, also have subsidiaries in C6te d'lvoire. In addition, there were 38 insurance companies
in 1991 as well as 10 non-bank financial institutions, a public debt agency operating under special
statutes, a system of rural savings and credit cooperatives (CREP) and a stock exchange.
4.     The financial system had been distressed since early 1987. The deteriorating economy had
inflicted on financial institutions massive public and private arrears, declining deposits, and
decreased lines of credits from foreign parent banks.  It had resulted in growing illiquidity,
substantial credit from BCEAO, undercapitalization, insufficient provisioning and declining
profitability. In addition, an inadequate financial sector policy framework (i.e. rigid interest rate
structures, subsidized refinancing for selective lending, sectoral credit allocation, a poorly
controlled system of crop credit, lax banking supervision, and absence of prudential requirements)
and an inefficient judicial system seriously undermined the performance of the system.  Two
housing development banks (BNEC and BICT), two industrial development banks (CCI and BIDI)
and three small leasing companies were liquidated in 1988 and 1989. The agricultural development
bank (Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole, BNDA) was placed in liquidation in
September 1991. The insurance sector was plagued by high operating costs, massive premium
arrears and fraudulent claims.
5.     Project Background. The Bank has been involved in the financial sector of C6te d'Ivoire
since the early 1970s. It has provided lines of credit to industries through specialized lending
institutions. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan approved in 1989 had an important financial
sector component to support the restructuring of agricultural finance. In 1991, the Bank continued
its support of the Government's financial sector reform program. Loan 3408-IVC and Credit 2303-
0-IVC were approved by the Board of Executive Directors on October 1, 1991 and made effective
on December 13, 1991.
II.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (FSAP)
A.    OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
6.    In 1988, the Government, fully aware of the deteriorating situation in the financial sector,
requested the Bank's advice in the formulation of a restructuring plan for the sector and financial
support for its implementation. Over the following three years, the Bank helped Government design
the various components of the reform program, which included: (a) improvements in monetary
policies; (b) strengthening of regulation and supervision of financial institutions; (c) reform of the
judicial environment; (d) reduced role of the state; (e) settlement of Government arrears; (f)
restructuring of banking institutions; (g) restructuring of the deposit of Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA), the debt management agency; (h) liquidation of BNDA; (i) completion of
the liquidation of seven specialized lenders; (j) rehabilitation of the insurance sector; and (k)



C_te d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                  3
restructuring of the Stock Exchange. The FSAP thus contained a mix of measures to tackle short-
run difficulties and further longer tern sectoral development.
7.    The design of the FSAP grew out of several preparatory missions starting in 1989 aimed at
identifying the major weaknesses in the financial sector, analyzing their causes and proposing
remedies. This work culminated in the issuing of a Financial Sector Strategy Report in February
1990. This report formed the basis for the developing of the program. Overall, the positive
dialogue maintained with Government meant that the Bank's role in the design process was effective
and well received. The restructuring of the banking system was a critical component of the FSAP.
In this regard, submission of appropriate restructuring plans with specific details was a condition for
effectiveness, whereas their successful implementation was one of the key conditions for second
tranche release.
8.    The Bank elected to concentrate its lending on quick disbursing operations designed to
address the structural sectoral issues, while contributing to financing of the public finance gap. The
FSAP, the first of three SECALs, was thus conceived. At the time it was submitted to the Board,
Bank's exposure to C6te d'Ivoire was high.  Because the country's economic condition had
deteriorated sharply by 1992, CBte d'Ivoire was considered no longer creditworthy for IBRD
lending and thus it became eligible for IDA funds. The three SECALs did not involve an increase
in the Bank's exposure after the disbursement of their first tranches because of the front-loading of
the IDA component of the blend lending package. Bank exposure would increase only after the
disbursement of the second tranche which was contingent upon a return to competitiveness.
9.    US$150 million was allocated to Loan 3408-IVC to be disbursed in a first tranche of US$50
million and a second tranche of US$100 million. SDR 37.6 million (US$50 million equivalent) was
to be disbursed in one single tranche under Credit 2303-IVC. CFD and ADB supported the
program with approximately US$132.5 million equivalent in parallel financing. An IMF stand-by
arrangement of SDR 83 million (US$110 million equivalent) supporting the Government's medium-
term  program  had been approved in September 1991.  Because of the continuing poor
macroeconomic conditions and the late advent of the devaluation, which helped restore C6te
d'Ivoire's competitiveness, a key tranche release condition, implementation took longer than
expected. By the time the second tranche was released, Cote d'Ivoire was no longer creditworthy to
borrow on IBRD terms. The second tranche of Loan 3408-IVC was consequently canceled and
replaced by Credit 2303-1-IVC in the amount of SDR 72.4 million (US$100 million equivalent).
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
10.   The financial sector reform program was the object of thorough discussions at the Loan
Committee and the Board and the program reflected a consensus reached between the Bank and the
Government of Cote d'Ivoire. All objectives and conditionalities for Board and second tranche
disbursement as presented to the Bank Loan Committee and the Board have been substantially met.
11.   On the regulatory front, a regional banking commission was established and a set of strict
prudential rules introduced. The banking commission, with the assistance of four IMF-funded
French and Canadian inspectors, conducted regular audits of banking institutions. These audits
contributed to keeping the smaller Ivorian banks in good standing. On the insurance side, the



Cote dlvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                      4
insurance directorate at the Ministry of Finance was strengthened. A new insurance law was
introduced with a schedule of settlement (Bareme), a reduction to 5 years of the claims period and
settlement by arbitration.  A law was adopted regulating the profession of insurance brokers.
Decrees fixed the method of calculation for technical provisions and lifted admissible investments
for insurance companies. Their law served as a model for the CIMA code (regional regulation of
insurance companies under the Conference Interafricaine des Marches d'Assurance).
12.   All the measures agreed upon were taken to strengthen the judiciary apparatus: repeal of the
5 percent upfront levy on claims introduced in court; strengthening of the accelerated recovery
procedure; reform of the office of the clerk of the court.
13.   Government published a decree limiting to a maximum of 20 percent its participation in the
capital of financial institutions. With the exception of BIAOCI, it reduced its participation in all
commercial banks.
14.   While it is difficult to demonstrate quantitatively the impact that FSAP had on the economy,
the evidence suggests that it was positive. What is certain is that the project was responsible for
rehabilitating the financial sector and averting a severe crisis in the financial system, that could have
resulted in the collapse of banks and insurance companies with a devastating effect on the Ivorian
economy, a serious ripple effect on the other six UEMOA countries, and an undermining of the
effectiveness of the CFA devaluation.
15.   The Government cleared its substantial public arrears toward the banking sector (CFA franc
201 billion, of which CFA franc 35 billion in cash and the rest securitized over 15 years at 3 percent
with 3 years of grace and a payment and refinancing guarantee) and the insurance industry (CFA
franc 12 billion). BCEAO agreed to refinance up to 30 percent of the principal of the securitized
debt held by commercial banks at a 3 percent rate of interest. A special fund was established within
BCEAO, replenished in priority through Cote d'Ivoire receipts transiting through BCEAO, to
guarantee payments of principal and interest on the securitized debt. This is equivalent to removing
90 percent of the securitized debt from the balance sheets of banks. It provided immediate relief to
the commercial banks as they replaced 11 percent (or even 18 percent) refinancing by 3 percent
refinancing. Arrears of EECI (Energie Electrique de C6te d'Ivoire), the electricity company, of
about CFA franc 40 billion as well as those of Caisse de Stabilization et de Soutien des Prix des
Produits Agricoles (CAISTAB) to coffee/cocoa exporters (CFA franc 165 billion) were settled.
Arrears to exporters were settled at higher rates of interest (in the absence of any guarantee and in
turn exporters settled individually their arrears to the commercial banks). The four largest banks
were restructured: according to the contractual plans, non performing private sector loans were
provisioned; past losses were absorbed by each shareholder at the pro rata of their participation in
the capital; capital was restored to above prudential levels mainly by private partners (Government
reducing its stake to less than 20 percent in accordance with a Government decree limiting
Government participation in financial institutions); reduction in staff, branches and operating
expenses took place; recovery of bad loans was strengthened; management was changed. As can be
seen from the data submitted by the Borrower in Annex B, with a few exceptions, the four banks
met the quantitative targets and projections attached to the signed restructuring plan. In several
instances the objectives were surpassed. Commercial banks are now solvent, liquid and have



Cote d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                     5
returned to long-term profitability. The whole banking sector has become competitive. The best
customers can now obtain credit at below prime.
16.   As agreed, BNDA was placed in liquidation and an expatriate liquidator appointed. The
reimbursement of depositors proceeded in an orderly fashion with deposits of less than CFA franc 1
million reimbursed to a maximum of CFA franc 200,000, 20 percent of deposits between CFA franc
1 and 4 million reimbursed and deposits of Groupements a Vocation Cooperative (GVC) and CREPs
fully reimbursed. The liquidation initiated many court actions to recover credits. The liquidation of
five development banks and three leasing companies was merged into a newly created recovery
corporation (SONARECI). In the first year of operation it attained about 45 percent of targeted
recoveries. While less than the original target, this performance is better than that achieved in
several other countries.
17.   Based on a study conducted by an outside consulting firm to review the activities of CAA's
banking arm (CAA-Gestion des dep6ts (GDD)), the Government prepared a restructuring plan for
CAA-GDD which was subsequently accepted by the Bank. The plan limited CAA-GDD's
operations to the management of: (a) deposits linked with the public debt; (b) deposits of the postal
savings bank and social security institutions; and (c) deposits of special funds.  An internal
reorganization ensued: divisions were either abolished or merged; staff was reduced from 65 to 38;
and operating costs substantially cut back. Financial restructuring involved: (a) the allocation of a
capital of CFA franc 5 billion; (b) additional provisions of CFA franc 13.9 billion for non-
performing loans; and (c) the securitization of CFA franc 30.5 billion of public sector arrears over a
15-year period with a two-year grace period in principal payment, at 0.75 percent during this period
and 0.50 percent thereafter. CAA-GDD's interim income statement at September 30, 1994 showed
net profits of CFA franc 396.3 million. While the organizational restructuring is on the whole
satisfactory, CAA-GDD continues to extend credit, albeit short-term, to public enterprises. It needs
to further focus its mandate and learn from past mistakes.
18.   The insurance industry was restructured with the liquidation of two companies, the orderly
departure of 20 foreign companies, and the restructuring of several national companies. This
reduced the number of insurance companies to a size commensurate with the Ivorian market. All
the exits from the insurance sector were market driven (through bankruptcies or business decisions
by owners). The stock exchange was rehabilitated with a reduction in staff to 13 from 47, a cut in
operating costs by nearly half, the removal of Government subsidy and a change in the quotation
system. New regulations for the stock exchange and brokers were put into place. In the judicial
system, arbitration was introduced, access to the system was facilitated and simplified, and recovery
procedures were established.
19.   On the monetary policy front, BCEAO introduced reforms at the regional level including:
(a) liberalization of interest rates and bank margins; (b) an auction money market; (c) introduction
of reserve requirements; and (d) development of monetary programming. Overall, the BCEAO's
move towards interest rate liberalization is real and an important step in the right direction.
Nevertheless, the conduct of monetary policy by BCEAO remains far from perfect. For instance, in
the aftermath of the devaluation, BCEAO set its money market rate and the quantity of funds it
accepted in such a way as to maintain interest rates at a high level without depleting its revenues



Cote d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                  6
through the large interest payments on commercial bank deposits that an open market would have
implied.
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
20.    Difficulties in implementing the FSAP can be attributed to: (a) Government's budget
constraints resulting from continued macroeconomic deterioration before the devaluation; (b)
difficulties in reaching agreement with exporters on the settlement of indirect CAISTAB arrears;
and (c) Government's rejection of a merger between BIAOCI and SIB after efforts to privatize the
former did not succeed.
21.   After effectiveness, the FSAP proceeded well. Arrears to banks were settled, both in cash
(first payment) and in treasury bills. The latter were quickly refinanced by BCEAO. Banks,
insurance companies, the CAA and the stock exchange were restructured. However, continuing
macroeconomic problems soon put a brake on reforms. Financing the fiscal deficit became
increasingly difficult and Government used arrears financing of both external and domestic debt as
the principal means of covering the deficit. In late 1992, the FSAP started to derail. Government
accumulated new arrears. The arrears run by EECI toward the commercial banks cropped up
because CAA who serviced the debt on behalf of EECI used the payments for other purpose instead
of redirecting them to the banks. Immediate discussions with the Ministry of Finance ensured some
cash payments and securitization of the remaining amount. However, the second cash installment to
the four commercial banks was delayed until one month after the devaluation (February 1994) and
the first payments on a previous rescheduled debt to SIB were renegotiated.
22.   The settlement of indirect CAISTAB arrears to the commercial banks linked to non-payment
of support to coffee and cocoa exporters was drawn out due partly to difficulty in matching
CAISTAB's arrears to exporters and exporters' bank overdrafts and partly to exporters'
unwillingness to settle as long as banks continued to carry them through overdraft facilities. The
negotiations finally led to a tripartite agreement between the exporters, the banks and Government
in October 1992 involving securitization of the arrears.
23.   The difficulties with privatizing BIAO are partly Government's responsibility.  While
Government had restructured the bank financially and operationally in anticipation of its
privatization (BIAO's losses had been absorbed, its capital base strengthened, its doubtful portfolio
provisioned, and staff and branches reduced), the existing unfavorable economic conditions
prevented the interest from any serious private partner, certainly not in a pre-devaluation context.
Extensive efforts by Bank staff in seeking the involvement of a South African bank remained
fruitless. The Government had contracted with Credit Commercial de France to continue the
search. The Bank and IFC joined the efforts. This is an instance when the Bank listened to a case
well presented by the client and accorded more time to find a private partner. The Bank considered
that the covenants with respect to BIAOCI had been agreed to in spirit and released the second
tranche.



C6te dI'voire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                  7
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.   There was a general consensus that the FSAP was a risky operation. Its success relied
strongly on heavy conditionality and obligations that the Government had difficulty fulfilling.
However, it was also unanimously agreed that it was very much needed to avoid a major crisis in
the banking sector and in the economy of the UEMOA zone at large. In other words, the risks were
high, but they were calculated and worth taking. In addition, the Bank ran a risk in approving the
operation in the absence of a macroeconomic framework. When the Bank decided to go ahead with
the lending package, it assumed that a change in parity would occur soon after effectiveness. It was
swayed by the fact that Government had taken a number of impressive measures and was strongly
committed to reforms. C6te d'lvoire is a very important member of the UEMOA and fears had
been expressed that a collapse of its financial sector could have led to a break up of the zone. The
devaluation gave the FSAP an opportunity to attain its objectives and increased the probability of its
sustainability by, inter alia, increasing revenues on exports denominated in dollars which ensured
that the Government could meet its obligations on the commercial Bank restructuring financial
instruments. In the medium-term, the increased economic activity stimulated by the devaluation
should continue to have a positive effect on revenue, which is critical given that the long term
success of the operation rests indeed on Government's ability to meet its obligations. Financial
institutions continue to be burdened by a large public sector debt. Their profitability will depend to
some extent on the relieving of that debt. So far, Government's performance has been very good.
In addition, the organizational and financial restructuring of banks and insurance companies have
put them back on the road to long term profitability. Much improved monitoring will provide early
warning of deteriorating situations and permit early action to current deficiencies.
E.    BANK'S PERFORMANCE
25.   The analytical basis for the operation was the Financial Sector Strategy Report issued in
February 1990, based on findings from various missions since 1988. Over the following two years,
Bank staff assisted Government in developing an appropriate policy agenda and translated it into
monitorable actions. In close consultation with the IMF and other financiers such as CFD, CIDA,
EU, and ADB, they reviewed the adequacy of Government's macroeconomic management program
and identified studies that needed to be carried out. Bank staff also worked with BCEAO in support
of zone-wide monetary reforms and the consolidation of claims on banks. The pace of preparation
and negotiations accelerated and intensified as C6te d'lvoire's external debt obligations became
unsustainable. Bank procedures were simplified to accommodate the tight schedule. The FSAP was
approved by the Loan Committee, appraised, negotiated and approved by the Board within three
months.
26.   The accelerated speed with which the FSAP was processed does not mean that preparation
was weak. Bank staff put in considerable time in preparing a comprehensive reform strategy to
avert a bank crisis and concurrently design measures to deepen financial intermediation. They
maintained an intense dialogue with Government and BCEAO and together worked out appropriate
detailed restructuring plans for the financial institutions. The mechanism of settling public arrears
with Government securities is innovative and economical, and ensured that the bonds could be
refinanced, even if their tradability was limited. The quality of the design of the FSAP is in part
attributable to a strong commitment of Government's economic management team, cooperation of



C6te d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                     8
the money authorities, the banks and the business community. Throughout the identification and
preparation stages, Bank staff were able to assess the high degree of Government commitment that
had been lacking in previous SALs and SECALs.
27.   Program  conditionality  included  clear and  monitorable  indicators that facilitated
Government's adherence to the agreed reform program and contributed to its success. A policy
matrix had been developed that identified policy areas and issues, objectives to be achieved, the
actions already taken, and actions to be implemented.
28.   Supervision was intense during the implementation period. Bank staff monitored closely
progress achieved, were attentive to unexpected developments, insisted upon compliance with
covenants while remaining flexible, offered solutions to difficult situations, and mediated tripartite
negotiations between Government, commercial banks and exporters in the settlement of CAISTAB
arrears. Records indicate that the supervision missions were carefully planned in coordination with
the Resident Mission which played an important role in liaising with Government. Staff responsible
for the FSAP have coordinated closely with managers of the two concurrent SECALs and kept
management informed of progress in the sectoral adjustment programs through periodic
implementation reviews, particularly when the program encountered delays. Forms 590 accurately
reflected staff assessments throughout implementation. Overall, large efforts have been exerted to
keep the program on track.
F.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
29.   During preparation, Government cooperated with Bank staff on all technical aspects of the
reform program, notably financial policy reforms, regulation and supervision issues, strengthening
of the judiciary apparatus and legal framework for banking, insurance and stock market sectors, and
most importantly, the financial restructuring of the institutions. A special unit within the Ministry of
Finance was set up, led by an advisor from Banque de France, to be responsible for the FSAP. As
the program firmed up, the pace accelerated. During the months after Board approval, Government
intensified efforts in negotiating with the banks on terms agreeable to all parties concerned, private
shareholders, Government, BCEAO and Bank. Despite setbacks due to unfavorable macroeconomic
conditions in the first year of implementation; it must be recognized that Government, under the
FSAP, was strongly committed to reforms. Its economic management team was clearly in favor of
structural adjustments and demonstrated this attitude in its painstaking efforts to support new
legislation and overhaul the financial system.  It was also able to mobilize the consensus of
politicians and parliament, though civil servants and the urban workers were resentful of more
expenditure-cutting measures.
30.   The enthusiasm for reforms did not translate into a smooth implementation. First, in 1992,
while Government had difficulty meeting both its first scheduled payment to SIB on the rescheduled
arrears to a major civil works contractor and the second cash installment to the four commercial
banks, it undertook instead to recapitalize BIAOCI out of the proceeds of the second tranche of an
ADB loan while those scarce resources could have been used to meet more urgent obligations. In
fact, BIAOCI was presented with some alternatives in case it could not find a reference partner. It
could be either liquidated or merged with SIB. The Government, however, wished to maintain



C6te d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                  9
BIAOCI as a separate entity and rejected the merger option. Yet, if this bank were not privatized,
there was a risk that the injected funds would be wasted.
31.   Second, according to the agreed terms of the legal documents, Government was responsible
for obtaining a commitment from BCEAO to refinance up to 90 percent of the 3 percent
Government bonds issued in settlement of direct arrears and to guarantee payment of interest and
principal on these bonds. A Convention signed on December 27, 1991 between Government and
BCEAO provided for the refinancing of 90 percent of the securities issued. However, it did not
provide a payment guarantee by BCEAO in case the Government was unable to meet its obligations.
It only established a special account managed by BCEAO that the Government agreed to replenish
in priority to cover payment of interest and principal on the special bonds. The Convention
stipulated that BCEAO would not extend special financing to the Government beyond what had been
allocated in the context of monetary programming, nor would it incur financial costs to replenish the
account. In other words, legally BCEAO only assisted the Government in managing its finances to
ensure that the required payments were made. BCEAO insisted that this was sufficient to ensure
timely payments to commercial banks. Since the system had worked satisfactorily, payments made
to commercial banks with little delay, the Bank judged the situation acceptable.
32.   Third, clause no. 2 in annex 4 of the loan agreement, clarified by supplemental letter no. 3
to the legal documents, stated that Government would obtain a waiver from BCEAO to allow
commercial banks benefiting from the 3 percent refinancing to invest their excess liquidity in the
official money market without having to reimburse their 3 percent borrowings from Central Bank as
long as an active interbank money market did not exist. However, Article 8 of the Convention
excluded such waiver. BCEAO argued that such waiver would be costly for them. On the other
hand, the obligation to retrieve the 3 percent bonds from the refinancing window would be a
disincentive to domestic resource mobilization by commercial banks. If banks had no access to the
official money market, they would not make efforts at mobilizing deposits as the costs of these new
deposits would be higher than the 3 percent they would earn on the special Government bonds. The
Bank requested that the relevant clause in the loan agreement be respected and the situation was
subsequently corrected.
33.   The policy matrix listed four studies that Government had agreed to commission during the
life of the project, two of which were conditions for second tranche release. Only the latter two
were completed.  In February 1992, the study on the viability of CAA's banking arm was
submitted.  Their recommnendations and Bank's comments served as basis for Government
restructuring plan of CAA. Its implementation started in January 1994 with downsizing and
securitization of Government arrears over 15 years. The second study on the feasibility of a
regional capital market linking the seven UEMOA countries was completed in May 1992. This set
the stage for the preparation of an UEMOA regional stock exchange. Two other studies, not
conditions of second tranche release, were on automobile insurance premia and the taxation of
savings in C6te d'Ivoire. To date, these studies have not been undertaken.
34.   Procurement and Disbursements. Regarding procurement, the project legal documents set
a limit of US$2 million for contracts above which full international competitive bidding (ICB) was
required. To facilitate disbursement, the amount of expenditures eligible for limited ICB was later
increased to US$5 million and was reflected in the legal documents that were amended one day



Cote dI'voire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                    10
before effectiveness. Before project effectiveness, the Bank had reviewed the procedures by which
the Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage (SIR) imported petroleum and confirmed that SIR's procurement
procedures were compatible with those of the Bank.  Petroleum constituted the only imports
requiring review of Government's ICB procedures. Regarding disbursements, the Borrower was
unable to come up with adequate eligible invoices to withdraw the first tranche within a short period
of time. A special account, originally denied, was later awarded to facilitate disbursements. Upon
effectiveness, an advance of US$40 million (US$30 million under the loan and US$10 million under
the credit) was made.  This account was replenished on the basis of fully documented
reimbursement applications in excess of US$500,000, or for smaller amounts, on the basis of
statements of expenditures.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   Section B showed that the objectives of the FSAP and all conditionalities were substantially
met. The outcome can thus be rated as satisfactory. As a result, Cote d'Ivoire benefits today from
a solvent and competitive financial sector. With the exception of SIB, which was hurt by delays in
settling interest in the debt of a civil works contractor (arrears of over CFA franc 20 billion), the
quantitative projections were surpassed as can be seen from the attached documents. All four large
banks register substantial gross profits (more than tripled) allowing them to set aside comfortable
provisions and declare net profits. Operating expenses have been kept in check (rates of operating
expenses to net banking product of about 55 percent). However, credits have not increased as
expected, mainly because the Ivorian economy is flush with liquidity and firms require less
financing from the banks. With the banks in good health, and restriction on interest rates lifted,
there has been a marked downward movement in lending rates. The banks' best customers receive
financing at below prime.
36.   Some slippage was encountered in: (a) privatization of BIAOCI; (b) focusing the mandate of
CAA-GDD; (c) supervision of the stock exchange; and (d) improving the judiciary apparatus where
despite many reforms, old practices have remained and render difficult the recovery of bad loans.
37.   In addition, as indicated earlier, the insurance sector has been cleaned up. Government
settled its domestic arrears (although new arrears were allowed to build up subsequently).
Regulation and supervision of financial institutions has been strengthened permitting a competitive
environment to develop within a more prudent framework.  The stock exchange has been
successfully restructured. Trading has increased (for the first seven months of 1994 volume traded
was 257,000 shares (108,000 in 1992) for a value of CFA franc 5.35 billion (CFA franc 1.14 billion
in 1992). Several privatizations were successfully completed through the exchange (not the least
being CEI, the electricity company). BOAD, the regional development bank, successfully launched
two regional bond issues. The liquidation of BNDA proceeded successfully without causing any
disruption.
H.    FUTURE OPERATION
38.   First, Government should without delay fully complete the set of measures launched under
the FSAP by: (a) bringing the privatization of BIAOCI to a successful conclusion; (b) installing
quickly a lean and effective supervision of the stock exchange within the Department of Insurance at



CMte d'Ivoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                  11
the Ministry of Finance. Although it will eventually be replaced by a regional supervising agency,
an independent supervising mechanism is immediately needed to ensure adequate supervision until
the regional stock exchange is set up; (c) better focusing the mandate of CAA-GDD; and (d)
organizing training programs for judges and reinforcing the inspection of judges (this latter aspect is
being taken up under the Private Sector Development (PSD) SECAL that is currently under
preparation). This will complete the first phase of financial sector reform. With respect to follow-
up to the project, the key issue is the need for government to avoid recreating arrears to the private
sector. This is also being pursued under the PSD SECAL. In a second phase, Government should
seek to address a number of issues to deepen the financial sector by focusing on: (a) availability of
term financing; (b) small and medium enterprises financing; (c) institutional development, mainly
training; (d) the social security institution and the postal savings system; (e) the taxation of financial
markets and instruments; and (f) the development of new financial instruments (trade finance; term
finance; venture capital fund). The Bank is preparing a second financial SECAL to address these
issues.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   The FSAP confirms that Government commitment and political will are the key elements for
success. The operation also illustrates the merits of setting conditionality--wherever possible and
certainly for key conditions--in a precise fashion rather than in terms of broad objectives. This
practice facilitates supervision and agreement on the meaning of the conditionality. In addition,
focus was put on only a limited number of conditions essential to achieve the program objectives.
Finally, program implementation highlights the intensive supervision that adjustment programs
require, particularly when implementation is drawn out by delayed compliance. Such supervision
requires strong familiarity with country economics, institutions and legislation and a close and
continuous follow-up of macroeconomic developments and sector performance. It was fortunate
that there was continuity in Bank staffing throughout the entire cycle of the FSAP.
40.    Cote d'Ivoire's experience indicates that it may be worthwhile to take a calculated risk and
launch a financial sector operation in the absence of a clearly favorable macro framework if there is
a strong political will to implement reforms, restore market mechanisms and instill strong regulation
and supervision, a qualified, independent private management of financial institutions that will
manage the institution conservatively and defensively until the economic environment improves.
41.   From the project's shortcomings, the following lessons can be learned. Bank privatization
should be a Board condition, not a condition for tranche release. It will have greater chances of
success as it is always a difficult political issue. True reforms of the workings of the judiciary
apparatus are hard to come by. Even when reforms of laws and institutions are implemented,
attitudes are difficult to change. Achieving reforms in the context of regional institutions--central
bank (BCEAO), economic and monetary union (UEMOA) and a francophone Africa-wide initiative
to harmonize business laws (OHADA)--is particularly difficult.



COte d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                      12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3408-IVC, Credits 2303-0-IVC and 2303-1-IVC)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



Cote d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                                               13
Table 1: Summary of Asemmments
,'-','",'..:A,                 ,,"..  '   -'san~M ,,       '  ......    .    ..........      ... . ..
MacroPolicies                               0                   0                    0                     0
Sector Policies                             0                   0                    0                     O
Financial Objectives                        E                   0                    0                     0
Lsitutional Development                     0E                  0                    0                     0
Physical Objectives                          0                  0                    0                     0
Poverty Reduction                            0                  0                    0                     0
Gender Issues                                0                  0                    0                     0n
Other Social Objectives                      0                  0                    0                     0m
Environmental Objectives                     0                  0                    0                     0B
Public Sector Management                     0                  0                    0                     09
Private Sector Development                  0                   0                    0                     0
Other (specify)                              0                  0                    0                     0
0K                              0                               0
- - -. . .   . .   .   . . . . .   . .   .   . .   . . .- .-  . . . . .   . . .......... ... ...
-~~~~~~~.                    . . .     . . .   . . .   . . .   .      .     . - - - . .
Identification                                                              3 0                            0
Preparation Assistance                      0                              0                                0
Appraisal                                                                   1                               0
Supervision                                 0                              0                               0
:..  .  -........- . .....-. .... . . .-..-.-:--.. :.:-,::,:_
Preparation                                 0                              0                               0
Implementation                              0                              0                               0
Covenant Compliance                         01                             0                                0
* . . . ...        ...      :   .   -                               ,                     : -:
.' E-'. - -'~~.         . . :. -   .    :.           . . ':
-.-....-..  ,   . ..-.-.....
ml                  03                                        03



C6te d'Ivoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                             14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                          Purpose                           approval      Status
Preceding operations
1. SAL I              To support process of reforms in economic planning and      1982        Closed
management; adjustments in agricultural policies and institutions;
and reorganization of public enterprises.
To stabilize the economy in the short term and promote growth in
2. SAL II            the medium term.                                              1984       Closed
To provide continued support to reforms started under SAL I and
3. SAL III            SAL II.                                                      1986       Closed
To achieve a sustained rate of growth in the medium term in the
4. Agricultural Sector   agricultural sector while reducing urban-rural and regional  1990    Closed
Adjustment         income disparities.
To promote petroleum exploration and production, improve
5. Energy Sector      pricing and distribution; privatize the management of the    1990       Closed
Adjustment            electricity distribution company and reform the pricing system.
Adjustment
To improve distribution of basic services in rural areas, reduce
water tariffs and cost, and restore the financial autonomy of the
sector.                                                     1990        Closed
6. Water Supply &
Sanitation
Adjustment
To improve export incentives and international trade and transport
procedures; enhance competition through deregulation of prices
Following operations   and liberation of internal and external trade; eliminate labor  1992 and  Closed
market rigidities; rationalize tax and tariffs in order to reduce anti-    1994
1. Competitiveness &    export bias; improve the legal framework for business transations;
Regulatory Reform    and simplify procedures for investments and the establishment of
Adj.                  new enterprises.
To increase the quality of service delivery and broaden the
coverage at the primary levels in education and health and offer
more demand driven vocational and technical training
opportunities.                                            1992 and      Closed
1994
2. Human Resources
Adjustment



C6te d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                              15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                     Date planned           Date actual/last estimate
Identification                                                    May 8, 1989
Initiating Memorandum                                             October 2, 1989
Preparation                                                       October 15, 1989
Appraisal                                                         June 13, 1991
Negotiations                                                      September 3-6, 1991
Letter of financial sector development policy                     September 6, 1991
Board presentation                         September 11, 1991     October 1 st, 1991
Signing                                    September 15, 1991     October 4, 1991
Effectiveness                              October I st, 1991     December 13, 1991
First tranche release                      October I st, 1991     December 13, 1991
Mid-term review                                                   August 17, 1993
Second tranche release                     Fall 1992              February 9, 1994
Project completion                         September, 1993        November, 1994
Loan closing                               September 30, 1993     June 30, 1994
Table 4: Loan 3408-IVC, Credit 2303-0-IVC and Credit 2303-1-IVC Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 92               FY 93               FY 94
Appraisal estimate                 100.0               200.0                200.0
Actual                             103.5               103.5                203.2
Actual as % of estimate            103.5                51.8                101.6
Date of final disbursement of
Loan 3408-IVC                 January 12, 1992           -
Date of final disbursement of
Credit 2303-0-IVC            February 28, 1992           --
Date of final disbursement of
Credit 2303- 1 -IVC                  -                   -              March 3, 1994



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in President's Report         Estimated                                  Actual
1. Establishment of reserve requirements.              Approved in principle in 1989. Implemented on October 1st, 1993.
2. Reform of prudential ratios.                                                     Implemented in June 1991.
3. Audit of all banks in IVC.                          Underway at time of          Completed.
President's Report.
4. Establish prudential norms for insurance companies.  Underway at time of         Completed.
President's Report.
5. Establish a regulatory framework for insurance brokers. December 1991.           Law No. 91-889 of December 27, 1991 and Decree No.
92-114 of March 16, 1992.
6. Amend insurance legislation to: (i) reduce to 10 years    March 1992.            Law No. 96-566 of September 11, 1992 reduced the claim
the prescription period; and (ii) ensure possibility of                         period to five years, introduced the possibility of direct
direct settlement of claims without court action, and                           settlement of claims without court action and allowed for
allow arbitration.                                                              arbitration.
7. Participate in the development of a regional approach to  Underway at time of    Ivorian officials actively participated in the negotiations
regulation and supervision of insurance companies.  President's Report.         with respect to a regional approach to regulation and
supervision of insurance companies, in the context of the
Conference Inter-Africaine des Marches d'Assurances
(CIMA) under which all 13 countries within the Franc
zone adopt the same framework. The CIMA treaty was
ratified by C6te d'lvoire in 1993.
8. Reduction of costs of initiating legal procedures.  January 1992.                The fiscal annex to the Budget Law (Loi de finance) of
1992 (Article 10) suppressed the upfront 5 percent fee
required to introduce court proceedings for the recovery
of bad debt. The fiscal annex to the Budget Law of 1993
exonerated banks and financial establishments from
transfer fees for the acquisition of buildings subsequent to
the foreclosing on a guarantee as well as judiciary
decisions dealing with recovery of bad debt from taxes.



Key implementation indicators in President's Report       Estimated                                Actual
9. Reform of the Office of the Clerk of the Court.   January 1992.               Implemented. To speed up procedures and make it more
manageable, the Office has been split into three sections:
social, civil and commerical, and criminal. Training of
clerks and magistrates has started. Control of court
decisions has been reinforced and a new schedule of fees
is being prepared.
10. Establishment of arbitration procedures.        January 1992.               Law No. 93-671 of August 9, 1993 established arbitration
procedures.
11. Modernization of the law on simplified recovery  May 1992.                  Law No. 93-669 of August 9, 1993 simplified reocvery
procedure, and of the Civil Code to improve loan                             procedures for civil and commercial debt.
recovery.
12. Introduction of guidelines on banking contracts.  May 1992.                 Not implemented.
13. Completion of census of indirect arrears of CAISTAB.   December 1991.       Implemented.
14. Implementation of programs of settlement of non-bank   Starting December 1991.  Settlement of CAISTAB arrears was agreed upon in
public sector arrears, including CAISTAB arrears to                          October 1992. CFAF 121.4 billion of Government
exporters.                                                                   arrears were securitized at 8% over a ten-year period,
with a supplementary payment of CFAF 13 billion at the
end of the period.
15. Securitization of Government arrears to banks and 3 %    November 1991.     January 2nd, 1992.
BCEAO refinancing in place.
16. First cash payment in settlement of Government arrears  December 1991.       Implemented in December 1991.
to banks.
17. Contribution of Government to resorption of past losses  December 1991.      Implemented. The four commercial banks have been
and recapitalization of banks in place.                                      recapitalized and their non-performing portfolios
provisioned to prudential norms.
18. Contribution of private partners to resorption of past  December 1991.       Implemented.
losses and recapitalization of banks in place.
19. Second cash payment in settlement of Government  September 1992.             Second payment was made partially in cash at end of
arrears to banks.                                                            January 1994 and partially through fiscal compensations.
20. Progress in the implementation of the restructuring plan  September 1992.    Government had fully recapitalized BIAO and signed a
of BIAO.                                                                     technical assistance agreement with Cr6dit Commercial de
France (CCF) to assist in the management of the bank and
find a major private partner.



Key implementation indicators in President's Report        Estimated                                  Actual
21. Centralize the recovery actions for               December 1991.               Law No. 92-565 of September 11, 1992 establishes
CCI/BIDI/BNEC/BICT and BNDA.                                                   recovery procedures for the bad debt of financial
institutions in liquidation taken over by the State.
Decree No. 92-578 of September 15, 1992 establishes the
Societe Nationale de Recouvrement de C6te d'lvoire
(SONARECI) and sets its mandate, organization and
operating procedures.
Decree No. 93-141 of March 15, 1993 transfers to
SONARECI the liquidation of the four specialized lending
institutions and BNDA.
Decree No. 93-202 of February 3, 1993 names the
General Director of SORANECI. SONARECI became
operational in June 1993.
22. Official decision to liquidate BNDA and appoint its  September 1991.           BNDA was officially placed in liquidation on October 16,
liquidator.                                                                    1991.
23. Progress in the process of BNDA liquidation.      Mid 1992.                    A special fund (Fonds de Rachat et d'lndemnisation des
depots de la BNDA) was established by a decree dated
November 8, 1991 with a mandate to reimburse BNDA
depositors. Ninety-five percent of depositors have
received some compensation. Recovery of bad debts has
proceeded more slowly.
24. Study of viability of CAA's banking activities:
- Terms of reference                              September 1991.              December 1991.
- Completion of study                             December 1991.               February 1992.
25. Decision on action plan for CAA.                  March 1992.                  Bank approved action plan in June 1993.
26. Implementation of key measures for CAA.           July 1992.                   January 1994. Staff had been reduced from 65 to 38.
Operating costs have been substantially reduced. CFAF
30.5 billion of public arrears had been securitized over 15
years, at 0.75% during the first two years and at 0.50%
during the remaining 13 years.
27. Settlement of premium arrears and arrears on CAA
bonds.                                                                         Agreement reached between Government and insurance
- Detailed plan.                                  September 1991.              companies on the level of Government arrears in July
- Cash payment to settle arrears.                 1992-1993                    1992. A settlement plan was established for arrears on
CAA bonds involving some cash payment and the
renewal of matured bonds. CFAF 300 million of
payment arrears will be made from STABEX funds.



Key implementation indicators in President's Report       Estimated                                Actual
28. Study automobile insurance premiums.             Mid 1992.                   Studied in the CIMA code.
29. Implementation of recommendation.               January 1993.               Implementation of recommendations pending on results of
study. Premiums were raised 25% in September 1994.
30. Audit of insurance companies with capital and/or  1992.                     The Insurance Department within the Ministry of Finance
technical deficiencies.                                                      has audited all insurance companies and discussed
restructuring plans with their management.
31. Implementation of recommendation of insurance    1993.                      Two national insurance companies were placed in
companies audits.                                                           liquidation, seven foreign companies have left the market.
Several institutions were restructured.                         N
32. Government's approval of plan to reform the quotation   December 1991.       Implemented.
system of the Abidjan Stock Exchange.
33. Implementation of restructuring plan for the stock  June 1992.               Completed. A decree to institutionalize the
market and of new quotation system.                                          reorganization of the Stock Exchange was signed on July
1, 1992. Staff had been reduced from 47 to 13 and
operating expenses have been cut in half. The Stock
Exchange no longer receives subsidies from Government.
Prices of stocks on which there are no transactions will be
moved downward if there are unsatisfied offers to sell and
upward if there are unsatisfied offers to buy.
34. Prepare legislation for the reform of brokerage  May 1992.                   Directive of September 10, 1992 was sent to commercial
activities.                                                                  banks requesting that brokerage activities be separate
from commercial banking activities.
35. Implementation of plan.                          July 1992.                  Completed.
36. Study taxation of savings and financial institutions to    June 1992-March 1993  Not implemented.
remove obstacles to the development of financial
markets.
37. Encourage the establishment of venture capital firms.    Underway.           Underway in the context of the development of an
integrated bond and equity market in the UEMOA zone.
38. Participate in the feasibility studies on the development  October 1991 to March 1993.  A technical study was completed in May 1992 which was
of regional capital markets anchored in Abidjan.                             approved by the UEMOA Council of Ministers in               I
December 1992. The regional stock exchange is expected
to become operational in January 1996.



Cote dI'voire Financial Sector Adjustinent Program                                  20
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at          Status              Impact of study
appraisal
1. Viability of CAA's  Restructuring of CAA.   Completed in January  The activities of CAA's
banking activities.                      1992.                    banking arm have been
limited to the
management of: (i)
deposits linked with the
public debt;
(ii) deposits of the social
security institutions and
the postal savings bank;
and (iii) deposits of
special funds.
2. Development of   Integration of financial   Completed in May 1992.
regional capital  markets in the UEMOA                            An UEMOA regional
markets.          zone.                                           bond and equity market is
under way and is
scheduled to start
operating in January
1996.
Table 7: Project Financing
Source                  Appraisal estimate (US$ million)  Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)
IBRD                                150.0                              50.0
IDA                                 50.0                              153.2
Parallel Financing
- ADB                             67.0                               34.8
(50 million Accounting Units)
- CFD                             65.5                               33.8
(CFA franc 18 billion)
TOTAL                             332.5                             271.8



COte d'Jvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                          21
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present  Original   Revised
Agreement   Secion      type    status   fulfill-   fulfill-   Description of covenant   Comments
ment date ment date
Loan/Credit  3.01(a)      9       C    Inter-               Borrower and Bank to   Complied with.
mittent             exchange views from
time to time on
progress of program
Loan/Credit  3.01(b)      9        C    Inter-              Borrower to transmit   Complied with.
mittent             progress report to Bank
for review and
comment.
Loan/Credit   3.02       10       C    At time              Borrower to comply    Complied with.
of goods            with Bank's
import.             procurement rules
indicated in Schedule 1
to Loan/Credit
Agreements.
Loan/Credit  3.03(a)      1        C    Through-            Borrower to maintain   Complied with.
out the             or cause to be
life of the         maintained project
project.           records and accounts in
accordance with sound
accounting practices.
Loan/Credit 3.03(b)(i)    1       C    FY92,                Borrower to have      Complied with.
FY93,               project records and
FY94                accounts audited each
fiscal year in
accordance with
appropriate auditing
principles by
independent auditors
acceptable to Bank.
Loan/Credit 3.03(b)(ii)   1        C    FY92,               Borrower to furnish to  Complied with.
FY93,               Bank a certified copy
FY94                of the audit report to
the most six months
after the end of each
fiscal year.
Loan/Credit 3.03(b)(iii)  1      N/A   Whenever             Borrower to furnish    So far, Bank has
Bank so             such other information  not requested it.
requests.           related to records and
accounts whenever
requested by Bank.



Cote d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                             22
Covenant  Present  Original   Revised
Agreement   Section      type     status   fulfill-    fulfill-   Description of covenant    Comments
ment date ment date
Loan/Credit  3.03(c)(i)    1        C    Through-              Borrower to maintain    Complied with.
out the              or cause to be
life of the          maintained project
project.            records of expenditures
made on the basis of
statement of
expenditures (SOE).
Loan/Credit 3.03(c)(ii)    1        C    One year              Borrower to retain,   Complied with.
after               until at least one year
Bank's              after Bank's receipt of
receipt of           project audit report, all
project              records documenting
audit                SOE expenditures
report.              incurred under the
project.
Loan/Credit 3.03(c)(iii)   I        C    Any time.             Borrower to make      So far, Bank has
available for review by  not requested it.
Bank's representative
above documentation.
Loan/Credit  3.3(c)(iv)    1        C    At annual             Borrower to ensure that Complied with.
audit               audit report contains a
report.             separate opinion on the
use of statements of
expenditures.
Loan        Schedule       5       CP   Before                 Borrower to ensure that Mostly
1, para. 1                   second               the recapitaliz-ation and complied with.
tranche              re-structuring plan of   CCF has been
release,             SGBCI, BICICI, SIB    commissioned
originally          and BIAOCI has been   to continue the
planned              implemented.          search for a
for 18                                     private partner
mos.                                       for BIAO.
after
effective-
ness.
Loan,       Schedule       5        C    Before    1991-94   Borrower to ensure that Mostly
Side Letter  1, para. 2                   second               BCEAO has:            complied with.
No. 3                                     tranche              (a) consolidated all of   BCEAO did not
release,            its claims on BNDA;    directly
originally          (b) extended a         guarantee the
planned              refinancing facility for  repayment of
for 18               the Treasury bonds;    interest and
mos.                 and                   principal on the
after                (c) guaranteed the    Treasury bonds,
effective-           Treasury bonds.       but established a
ness.                                      special fund to
pay these
obligations.



Cote d 'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                                    23
Covenant  Present  Original   Revised
Agreement   Section        type     status    fulfill-    fulfill-   Description of covenant    Comments
ment date ment date
Loan         Schedule        5        CP    Before      1991-94    Borrower to ensure       Mostly
1, para. 3                      second                 that: (a) a liquidator  complied with.
tranche               has been appointed in    Ninety-five
release,              BNDA; (b) a plan for   percent of
originally            repayment of BNDA's  depositors had
planned               depositors has been     received some
for 18                made public and is      compensation
mos.                  being implemented in   and 82 percent
after                 accordance with its     had been fully
effective-            calendar; and (c)       reimbursed.
ness.                 BNDA's portfolio has   BNDA's
been transferred to     portfolio was
CRU.                    transferred to
CRU in the
spring of 1993.
Loan        Schedule         5         C     Before    January    Borrower to implement  Complied with.
1, para. 4                      second     1994.       an action plan either to
tranche               restructure or to
release,              terminate CAA's
originally            banking activities.
planned
for 18
mos.
after
effective-
ness.
Loan        Schedule         5         C     Before     Sept. 11,  Borrower to ensure that Complied with.
1, para. 5                      second     1992.       CRU has been
tranche               established.
release,
originally
planned
for 18
mos.
after
effective-
ness.
Loan         Schedule        5         C     Before     Sept. 11,  Borrower to ensure that Complied with.
1, para. 6                      second     1992.       Law No. 89-1291 of    The statute of
tranche               December 18, 1989, on  limitation on
release,              vehicle accident claims  claims has been
originally            has been modified: (a)  limited to five
planned               in its Article 4, so as to  years.
for 18                limit the statute of
mos.                  limitation on claims to
after                 ten years; and (b) in its
effective-            Articles 7 and
ness.                 following, so as to
ensure the possibility of
out of court settlements
of claims, and to alllow
arbitration of claims.



C6te d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                                                               24
Covenant   Present   Original    Revised
Agreement        Section          type        status      fulfill-      fulfill-    Description of covenant           Comments
ment date ment date
Loan,           Schedule            5            C       Before        1992.         Borrower to ensure that  Complied with.
Side Letter    1, para. 7                                second                      a restructuring plan of
No. 4                                                    tranche                     the Abidjan Stock
release,                    Exchange and of the
originally                  regulation of stock
planned                     brokerage activities is
for 18                      being implemented.
mos.
after
effective-
ness.
Loan            Schedule            5            C       Before        1992.         Borrower to ensure            Complied with.
1, para. 8                              second                       that: (a) the system  of
tranche                     registration fees for
release,                    judicial proceedings has
originally                  been modified; and (b)
planned                     the Office of the Clerk
for 18                      of the Court has been
mos.                        reorganized.
after
effective-
ness.
Loan            Schedule            5            C       Before        1993.         Borrower to ensure            Complied with.
1, para. 9                              second                      that: (a) arbitration
tranche                     proceedings have been
release,                    introduced; (b) Law
originally                  No. 83-795 of August
planned                     2, 1983, has been
for 18                      amended to simplify
mos.                        recovery of credits; and
after                       (c) Law No. 72-833 of
effective-                  December 31, 1971 has
ness.                       been amended to
incorporate the Code of
civil, commercial and
administrative
procedure.
Covennt types
1. *  AcoountsJaudit                                         8.  = Indigenous people
2.      Finenci performance/revenue goenertion from beneficaries  9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3     Flow and utilization of project funds                  10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4  =  Coutrpart funding                                      11.    Sedoral or crou-cectorel budgetary or other reaource allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the prcpd or ex aat,ng agency    12.    Sectoral or crou-cedoral policy/ regulatorylinstitutional action
6.     Ernwonmental covennts                                 13.  = Other
7.     Involuntary rttlement
Preent Status:
C  *covenat compiled with
CD *  complied with aftr delay
CP =  complied with parlly
NC *  not complied wIth



C6te d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                              25
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                  Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OD 8.30, Financial Sector     Para. 7 of OD 8.30 on the economic incentives and macroeconomic environment
Operations.                  conducive to the successful completion of a financial sector adjustment loan states:
"Of particular importance for economic incentives is the exchange rate. An
overvalued exchange rate can lead to economywide resource misallocations, balance
of payments difficulties and protectionist pressures, high real interest rates, a
contraction of productive investment, and eventual loan defaults and financial distress.
Where the exchange rate is judged to be significantly overvalued or where there is
evidence of significant flight from domestic currency assets, financial sector
operations (other than technical assistance) are likely to be exceedingly risky in terms
of both the probability of achieving project and policy objectives and the exchange
rate and credit risks placed on borrowers. The reasoning behind a decision to go
forward with a lending operation in these circumstances should be clearly
explained in the loan documentation." A study of the project files indicates that the
overvalued exchange rate had been identified to be a key obstacle to the restoration of
C6te d'Ivoire's competitiveness. Indeed, numerous internal documents and memos
stated that in the absence of a parity change, there would be little chance for the
successful implementation of the FSAP. The President's memo also highlighted the
risk. The minutes of the Operations Committee held on August 28, 1991 related that
under normal circumstances, the FSAP would not warrant support. However, special
consideration would be given to C6te d' Ivoire given its unique situation on the
condition that Government would not request second tranche release until there was a
return of competitiveness. While the conditionality was strict and appropriate, there
was no strong argument for imposing it without addressing the issue of parity change
upfront.
Circular OP 87/06, Guidelines   Para 8(1) of OP 87/06 advised Bank staff to propose in the Initiating Memorandum
for Preparing and Processing  contingency plans should the external environment deteriorate further. This was not
Adjustment Loans and Credits.   done explicitly, although it was expected that financial institutions would be managed
conservatively (put on a holding pattern) until devaluation.



C6te d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                                        26
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned                    Revised                      Actual
project cycle     Weeks         US$         Weeks          US$          Weeks           US$
Through appraisal    100.0    423,000           53.9       228,000          116.3       492,000
Appraisal-Board       10.0       42,300          11.3        47,800          11.3        47,800
Supervision           41.0      173,400         36.6        154,800         34.2        145,000
Completion            14.0       59,220
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Specialized staff skills
Stage of project  Month/   No. of    Days       represented       Implemen-   Development  Types of
cycle       Year    persons   in field                       tation status    objectives   problems
Through        05/89 to     16        60    Law, banking,
appraisal       06/91                       financial analysis,
insurance, stock
exchange
Appraisal      06/91 to     3         13    Law, banking,              -            -           -
through Board   10/91                       financial analysis
approval
Board approval  10/91 to    2         5     Law, banking
through          12/91
effectiveness
01/92 to
Supervision      10/93      6         20    Banking,                  2             2           3
stock exchange
Completion       11/94      2         4     Banking, financial         I            1           2
analysis



Cote d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                 27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3408-IVC, Credits 2303-0-IVC and 2303-1-IVC)
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE



C6te d'Ivoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                28
SUMMARY OF THE COTE D VOIRE
FSAP COMPLETION MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
IntLrducton
A World Bank mission visited Abidjan from November 5 to 9, 1994 to assess the achievements
of the FSAP upon its completion. In concert with representatives of the Government of Cote d'Ivoire, it
reviewed the project from preparation, implementation, to closing, evaluated its sustainability, rated the
relationship between the Government and the Bank, and appraised follow-up measures that will help
strengthen the financial sector.
The FSAP was implemented in 1991 in the absence of an adequate macroeconomic framework.
However, the Government did prepare a medium-term action plan. Both the Government and the Bank
expected the devaluation to happen soon after the project was presented to the Board. It only happened
two years and a half later, which caused unfavorable conditions for FSAP implementation.
The Project
The project included eight components: (a) settlement of Government internal debt; (b)
restructuring of distressed banks; (c) restructuring of distressed insurance companies; (d) restructuring of
CAA, the Government debt management agency; (e) liquidation of the agricultural development bank;
(f) improved recovery of the non-performing loans of liquidated and restructured banks; (g) restructuring
of the Abidjan stock market; and (h) overhaul of the judiciary apparatus.
Government Internal Debt
A debt workout cleared all arrears by Government and public enterprises towards commercial
banks and exporters through partial cash payment and securitization of the remainder at rates and
maturities commensurate with the financial situation of the creditor. Securities issued to commercial
banks were refinanced by the Central Bank and a special fund was set up at BCEAO financed out of
Government revenues transiting through the Central Bank to cover payments of interest and principal in
case of default. Government has honored all its payments.
The Commercial Banks
The commercial banks were satisfied with results of the FSAP. Most objectives were achieved,
namely: settlement of Government arrears, adequate provisioning of the private sector portfolio,
absorption of past losses by all partners in proportion to their ownership, recapitalization mainly by
private shareholders leading to a Government withdrawal from the capital of banks and an aggressive
recovery of bad debts.



CMte d'Ivoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                  29
Thanks to the combined effects of the devaluation and the improved price of agricultural exports
and the restructuring, banks are now liquid and profitable. Their operating costs remain, however,
somewhat high. They will continue their internal reorganization to reduce these further. Their only
concern is the future financial ability of Government to meet its obligations.
SIB is profitable, in spite of difficulties with the Jean Lefebvre debt. Due to late payment by
Government, it had to borrow from its parent bank, Credit Lyonnais, and thus suffered a foreign
exchange loss of CFA franc 20 billion. An agreement has been reached between Government and Credit
Lyonnais to settle this loss, with the latter forgiving most of its debt.
BIAOCI regained profitability and has recently acquired a small bank, REAL, for CFA franc I
billion. Its management is confident that the investment will be recovered within three years. However,
BIAOCI remains a public sector bank. It has failed to find an acceptable partner during the life of the
FSAP but the Government will pursue privatization efforts.
SGBCI, a subsidiary of Societd Generale, has benefited from the FSAP. It is profitable but
requires additional provisions which would necessitate a recapitalization of CFA franc 20 billion. Some
credits deemed recoverable at the time of the preparation of the FSAP could not be recovered and
performing credit turned bad because of the continuing poor macro framework. SGBCI's management
estimates that this supplementary provisioning can be completed over three years out of the bank's
retained earnings.
BICICI is the best performer of the four restructured banks and is very profitable. Except for
ECOBANK and BANAFRIQUE, all the smaller banks are functioning well. All Government's arrears
to the smaller banks have been settled in cash. ECOBANK and BANAFRIQUE were partially
recapitalized and will be closely watched by the Banking Commission.
Overall, in November 1994, commercial banks are liquid, solvent and profitable. Their liquidity
is attributed to the return of capital from abroad since the devaluation, a decrease in credit for imports, a
drop in overdrafts for businesses which are also more liquid than before, a "wait and see" attitude from
investors and few new project. Despite a sharp cut in interest rates, the growth of credit is still modest.
An auction money market coordinated by BCEAO opened on October I st, 1993. Concurrently,
required reserves were imposed on commercial banks while spreads were liberalized. In the beginning,
the money market did not function well. After the devaluation, overliquid banks made more offers than
bids while interest rates were kept high. Since July 1994, interest rates have been reduced.
The Insurance Companies
The FSAP has been beneficial to the insurance industry. Arrears on premium and on debt by
Government and public enterprises have been settled through a combination of cash, securitization and



CMte dlvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                  30
tax compensation. Several companies have been restructured and recapitalized by their private partners.
The total number of companies has decreased from 40 to 29 as some foreign companies have been
liquidated a have withdrawn in an orderly fashion. Supervision has been strengthened. Among the
remaining companies, one is actually technically insolvent and will be liquidated soon.
CAA. the Government Debt Agency
CAA has been completely restructured, including its deposit management branch.  The
restructuring consisted of downsizing and settlement of Government arrears at a low rate. It also aimed
at redefining CAA's mission which will specialize in activities not undertaken by the private sector.
However, its deposit management branch continues to accept deposits by public institutions and extend
short term credit to them. Its mission needs to be readjusted. Various public guarantee funds have been
created to support the devaluation. The Government assured the mission that these funds are a
temporary support provided after the devaluation and will be closed in the coming months.
The Rural Credit Institution
The liquidation of BNDA, the national agricultural development bank, went well with most
depositors reimbursed with French funding. The gap left by BNDA is filled by the network of
mutualistic savings and credit associations (CROP) which were rehabilitated with the assistance of the
World Bank, the French and the Canadians.
Recovery of Bad Debts
The commercial banks kept their non-performing credits and proceeded with their recovery, after
these loans had been fully provisioned. One exception was BIAOCI's non-performing loans totaling
CFA franc 11 billion which were taken over by Government and refinanced by BCEAO. Debt collection
by commercial banks usually works better as the latter know their clients and are more motivated. The
judiciary apparatus is not lending enough support.
SONARECI, a newly created recovery agency, is responsible for the collection of the non-
performing portfolios of five liquidated banks (CCI, BDI, BNEC, BICT, and BNDA) and three
liquidated leasing companies. In its first year of operation, SONARECI has collected only 43% of the
amount projected.
The Abidjan Stock Market
The Abidjan stock market has undergone a deep reorganization. Staff has been reduced,
operating costs slashed, Government subsidies halted, quotation rules modified, procedures changed, and
stock broker responsibilities redefined. There has been a subsequent increase in stocks issued and
expanded activities. The market remains, however, narrow. It is anticipated that the regional stock



C6te d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                     31
market expected for 1996 will develop further the capital market. Meanwhile, with increased stock
activities, oversight should be in the hands of the directorate of supervision of insurance companies and
the stock market at the Ministry of Finance. Some technical assistance is needed to train the Abidjan
stock market staff in evaluating proposals submitted by the privatization committee and consolidate the
25 CAA bonds.
The Judiciarv Apparatus
Most, if not all measures aimed at strengthening the judiciary apparatus have been implemented:
elimination of the upfront "tax" on launching court proceedings modifications to laws (including the
accelerated recovery procedures) reform of the office of the clerk of the court. Nevertheless, most
operations, among which financial institutions continue to complain about the lack of support from the
judiciary apparatus.
Implementation of the FSAP
In general, all partners (Government, BCEAO, financial institutions) were satisfied with the
results of the FSAP. Government attributed the success of the project to its courage in acknowledging
the problems and determination in addressing them. The World Bank had given its technical and
financial support, and at times served as catalyst and negotiator.
Sustainability and Future Steps
All partners are confident in the sustainability of FSAP reforms. Financial institutions, however,
are concerned about Government's ability to meet its financial obligations. While the political will is
there, is it enough when in the coming years liquidity is a prime concern and foreign aid dwindles?
To strengthen FSAP's achievements, Government will have to: (a) privatize BIAOCI; (b)
complete reforms of the judiciary apparatus; (c) set up an independent supervision of the stock exchange,
consolidate CAA bonds, and strengthen the evaluation skills of the stock exchange staff; (d) readjust
CAA's mission; (e) liquidate the insolvent insurance company; and (f) support the banking commission
in maintaining a sound banking sector.
The time is right to deepen the financial sector of Cote d'lvoire by: (a) developing a rural credit
system based on the mutualistic savings and credit cooperatives; (b) working together with BCEAO to
improve the money market; (c) cooperating with BCEAO to establish a regional stock exchange; (d)
developing new financial instruments to mobilize term savings and extend term credit; and (e)
developing new specialized financing instruments and mechanisms.



Cote d'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program        32
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3408-IVC, Credits 2303-0-IVC and 2303-1-IVC)
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO
THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



C6te d 'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                 33
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3408-IVC, Credits 2303-0-IVC and 2303-1-IVC)
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
This is an English summary of submission by the borrower.
Background
In the late 1980's, the financial sector of C6te d'Ivoire was in severe distress. Sharp drops in
export revenues resulted in a large Government budget deficit and important private and public sector
arrears towards commercial banks and insurance companies. The latter became illiquid, insolvent and
unprofitable. Other reasons contributing to the prevalent distress were identified as the overwhelming
presence of Government as owner of and borrower from financial institutions, a lax supervisory
apparatus and an inadequate regulatory system.
The ObJectives of the Financial Sector Adjustment Program (ESAP)
A financial sector reform program was urgently required. The FSAP had for primary objective
the immediate restoration of distressed financial institutions to viability and profitability. It was also
aimed at divesting Government's ownership in banks, liberalizing the environment for banking
operations, improving the institutional, regulatory and judiciary environment, revitalizing the stock
exchange and deepening financial markets.
Restructuring the Financial Sector
a)    The Restructuring of commercial banks was based on tripartite agreements between
Government, the Central Bank, and private shareholders. Four banks were involved in the process:
BIAOCI, BICICI, SGBCI, and SIB. Private non-performing loans amounted to CFA franc 118 billion,
public non-performing loans totaled CFA franc 201 billion. Internal restructuring was also required in
each bank to reduce operating costs and restore profitability. It was agreed that Government would
assume all public debt and make cash payments of CFA franc 13 billion over two years.  The
remaining public debt would be securitized at 3 percent over 15 years with 2 years grace. Up to 90
percent of these Government securities could be refinanced by BCEAO at 3 percent. The Central Bank
opened a special account financed by Government revenues transiting through the Central Bank to
ensure that maturities on securitized debt are met.  Debt to small banks was paid in cash by
Government and interest on an old debt to SIB (amounting to CFA franc 22 billion) was to have been
paid in three annual installments. Absorption of losses caused by provisioning the private sector
portfolio would be effected by existing shareholders at the pro-rata of their participation in the capital.
Recapitalization to prudential norms would be mainly done by private shareholders.
All expected cash payments were made, though with some delay. Government is also up to
date in honoring maturities on securitized debt. The special payment of CFA franc 22 billion to SIB
was delayed. All partners contributed to the absorption of losses at the pro-rata of their participation in
the capital and Government subsequently reduced its stake in banks to 20 percent or less. One



Cote d 'Ivoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                34
exception was BIAO, for which a private partner could not be found despite an intensive search. An
additional CFA franc 20 billion of provisions is required at SGBCI. This has been done. Internal
restructuring in individual banks brought about desired positive results. Overall, after implementation
of the FSAP, the banks had improved their liquidity (increased by CFA franc 390 billion in the first
quarter of 1994), needed less BCEAO refinancing, respected new prudential requirements, and
regained profitability.
b)    Restructuring of insurance companies. The number of insurance companies has been
reduced from 40 to 29 in an orderly fashion. In 21 companies and supplementary provisioning and
recapitalization were required after off-site audit and on-site verification.  Implementation of
restructuring measures was satisfactory in all companies except one.  Overall, the need for
recapitalization decreased from CFA franc 11 billion in 1992 to CFA franc 3.6 billion in 1993, and
required provisions dropped from CFA franc 12 billion to CFA franc 2.5 billion during the same
period. Public arrears on premium and debt totaling CFA franc 12 billion have been repaid.
c)    Restructuring of CAA-Gestion de D6pot (the deposit management branch of CAA, the
Government debt management agency). It was part of the general restructuring of CAA, which aimed
at reducing operating costs and redefining its mission. In conformity with commercial bank
requirements, CAA Gestion de Dep6t was endowed with a capital of CFA franc 5 billion. Non-
performing portfolio was provisioned to the extent of CFA franc 33 billion. Outstanding public sector
debt was securitized at 0.5 percent (0,75 percent during the grace period) over 15 years with a grace
period of 2 years.
d)    Creation of a Recovery Corporation (SONARECI). The non-performing portfolios of
5 liquidated banks and 3 liquidated non-bank financial institutions totaling over CFA franc 300 billion
were transferred in 1993 to SONARECI which received special privileges (privilege du Tresor) to
improve its collection function. In its first year of operations, it recovered CFA franc 4.3 billion
representing 43 percent of projections while its operating costs accounted for 45 percent of recovered
amounts. Private depositors were slowly reimbursed. At the defunct BNDA, deposits of CFA franc 1
million or less were fully reimbursed up to a maximum of CFA franc 200,000. GVCs and CREPs
deposits were fully reimbursed. Twenty percent of deposits between CFA franc 1 and 4 million were
also reimbursed. CFA franc 15 billion remains to be paid.
e)    Restructuring of the Abidjan Stock Market (ASM). The ASM has been downsized,
restructured and new quotation rules introduced.  The quotation system has been computerized
(although the trading flow remains operational). The ASM became financially autonomous and
operationally more efficient. There has been a marked increase in stocks issued and a surge of activity.
The brokerage function has been defined and regulated for the first time. An UEMOA regional stock
market will become operational in 1996 and will contribute to deepen the capital market.
Sqtreng thening and Diversifying Financial Intermediation
Access to credit has been improved by the creation of guarantee funds, national funds for
young farmers, mutualistic credit and savings cooperatives, housing funds, and a large number of
private national funds to provide credit to micro-entrepreneurs. Also, more liquid commercial banks
have more funds available for lending.
Savings mobilization has been promoted through mutualistic savings and credit cooperatives in
rural areas. A special committee has been set up to design measures to encourage savings: law to



C6te d 'lvoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                35
protect the privacy of banking transactions, exemption of taxes on savings and insurance settlements,
rules to create mutual funds, revitalization of the stock exchange, restructuring of the postal savings.
In addition, capital that fled abroad has gradually returned since the devaluation.
The environment for banking operations has been liberalized and opened to market forces. A
money market has been established. The liquidity of banks is fine-tuned by the interplay of required
reserves and money market rates. Ceilings for lending rates have been abolished. All the above
measures were aimed at promoting competition between banks and motivating them to lend at rates
more commensurate with their average cost of funds. Lending rates have come down.
Banks are now under the supervision of the regional banking commission of BCEAO. Revised
prudential norms related to capital adequacy, division of risks, capital structure, and credit extension
have been published.
Likewise, the regulation of the insurance industry has been strengthened. A law to establish a
settlement schedule was passed. The time period during which a claim can be made has been reduced
from 30 to 5 years. Regulations governing the insurance brokerage profession, determining the
allocation of technical provisions and the investment of insurance companies have been established.
The industry has been placed under the supervision of a Directorate of Insurance Supervision at the
Ministry of Finance. It will be taken over by a regional supervisory body when the new CIMA treaty
is implemented.
The judiciary system has been strengthened by a number of reforms. New laws on improved
and simplified recovery procedures were passed. The office of the clerk of the court has been
reformed. The upfront levy of 5 percent of the amount claimed in court proceedings has been
abolished.
The Role of the World Bank
The World Bank has played a primary role in the prf paration, appraisal, negotiation and
supervision of the FSAP. Since 1989, in close cooperation with Government and following a detailed
diagnostic study, it has contributed to the design of the restructuring plan of the financial sector.
Through numerous concertations with all partners, namely Government representatives, donors (IMF,
CFD, BAD), BCEAO, banks, insurance companies, private shareholders, and economic operators, the
World Bank has been most instrumental in promoting Government's disengagement from the
commercial banks, the prompt application of institutional reforms, the deep restructuring of financial
institutions involving Government, BCEAO and all private partners, and the adoption of radical
measures where needed (BNDA's liquidation).
Supervision of the FSAP has been meticulous. Implementation of agreed measures was
followed up frequently to ensure that results were obtained as expected. Mr. Andr6 Ryba has pushed
for faster passing of laws under the judiciary component, searched for potential partners for BIAO, and
served as negotiator between exporters and banks to settle the former's debt.



C6te d 'Ivoire Financial Sector Adjustment Program                                  36
Condusion
Overall, the FSAP has been positive. A vital sector in the economy of Cote d'Ivoire has been
saved from collapse and returned to health. The World Bank has been an important catalyst of the
program. Institutional reforms were effected in reasonable time. Government's respect of its funancial
obligations remains a concern because of the sizable amounts involved. However, costs have been
greatly reduced as compared to original contracts and should be a strong indication to private partners
of Government's determination to keep its commitments. More work needs to be done, though, to
deepen the financial sector and should be the object of a second FSAP.



37
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO
THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



38
MINISTERE DELEGUE AUPRES
DU PREMIER MINISTRE, CHARGE
DE LECONOMIE, DES FINANCES
ET DU PLAN
018 novembre 1994
N SFIN/MEFP/CAB8
RAPPORT D'EVALUATION DU PROGRAMME
D'AJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL AU SECTEUR FINANCIER (PASFI)
Introduction
Le secteur financier de la C6te d'lvoire s'est trouve en situation de crise
dans les ann6ff 1980. Les banques etaient confrontees, de maniere chronique, A des
difficult6s de tresoreris alors que leur solvabilite etait mal assuree, parfoi, compromise.
Des soci6t6s d'assurances ne parvenaient plus a faire face a leurs engagements.
L'activite de la Bourse des Valeurs d'Abidjan s'etiolait et le marche financier etait
devenu_pratiquement inexistant.
Les causes de ces difficultes trouvaient, pour une large, part leur origine
dans les profonds bouleversements qui ont affect6 l'economie ivbirienne. La
diminution des recettes tirees des principaux produits d'exportation a rompu 1'equilibre
des finances publiques. l'Etat et le secteur public ont ainsi accumul6 des arrier6s de
paioment, notamment A I'6gard des exportateurs de produits, qui se sont repercut6 sur
les banques, -ont l'endettement A 1'6gard de la BCEAO a depass6 les seuils
r6glementaires. La det6rioration de la conjoncture et l'appr6ciation du CFA ont
egalement alter6 la situation d'entreprises du secteur productif, provoquant un
accroissement des prets compromis. Les incertitudes sur l'avenir entrainaient de leur
c6t6 des sorties de capitaux, r6duisant d'autant* les liquidites locales. Des faiblesses
de gestion des banques et.des societ6s d'assurances, un contr6le trop lache des
autorit6s de tutelle, une r6glementation inadapt6e, un dispositif judiciaire insuffisant et
manquant de rigueur ont contribu6 a la deterioration generale du secteur financier.
Fin Decembre 1989, la gravit6 de la situation etait mise en evidence par
l'incapacite ouz se sont trouvees les grandes banques de regler des dispositions emises
par rEtat. La n6cessit6 d'actions de redressement s'imposait.
Le plan de stabilisation et de relance engage a l'initiative du
Gouvemement en 1990 a ainsi inclus, parmi les grandes r6formes structurelles a mettre
en oeuvre un programme d'assairiissement et de restructuration du secteur financier.



39
La mise au point de ce programme a fait l'objet de concertations avec la Banque
Mondiale et d'autres bailleurs de fonds. Finalement, un accord de pret d'ajustement
sectoriel du secteur financier (PASFI) de 200 Millions de dollars a ete approuve en
Octobre 1991 par la Banque Mondiale.
Le PASFI visait des objectifs g6n6raux d'amelioration de l'intermediation
financiere et de developpement du marche financier susceptibles d'etre obtenues
grace a des r6formes de l'environnement institutionnel et reglementaire du secteur
financier, et a l'assainissement des instituions composant le secteur financier ivoirien.
Le pr6sent document repond aux dispositions de l'article Ier-I.-(c de l'Accord
de pret visant la presentation, dans les six mois de la cl6ture du pret, d'un rapport dont
"la portee et les details sont raisonnablement determines par la Banque" .
Sont ainsi decrits dans les developpement qui suivent, les differentes actions
qui ont ete engag6es pour repondre aux objectifs du programme, les r6sultats qui ont
ete obtenus pour chacun des secteurs consideres, lesquels ont pu, de maniere
generale, etre sensiblement am6liores par les effets de la d6valuation du FCFA
survenue en Janvier 1994. C'est a la lumiere de ces elements qu'est donn6e
l'evaluation des relatons avec la Banque Mondiale pour l'engagement et le suivi de ce
programme.
I  OBJECTIFS GENERAUX  DU  PASFI ET RESULTATS OBTENUS  POUR
L'AMELIORATIDN  DE  L'INTERMEDIATION  FINANCIERE  ET  DU  MARCHE
FINANCIER
La Lettre de Politique de Developpement du secteur financier qui a ete arrbt6e
par le Gouvemement assignait comme objectif g6neral a la reforme du secteur
financier  la promotion d'un systeme financier solvable et diversifi6, en mesare de
satisfaire les besoins de credit et la protection des d6posants, en restaurant la qualite
de I'Etat comme garant, en demier ressort de l'epargne publique et de la solidite des
institutions financieres. . Le systeme devait garder au surplus une certaine flexibilite
pour s'adapter aux changements du contexte 6conomique.
Pour r6pondre a ces preoccupations il s'av6rait n6cessaire de redefinir le r6le de
l'Etat, de renforcer le dispositif institutionnel, d'elargir les instruments de financement
et de placement disponibles.
A- Red6finition du r6le de I'Etat
Pour repondre a des besoins importants d'investissements, mais sous
l'effet des difficultes de la tresorerie publique, I'Etat de Cote d'lvoire etait fortement
implique dans le secteur financier ivoirien, soit comme actionnaire, debiteur ou garant
de soci6t6s du secteur public.
Conformement aux engagements pris dans le cadre du PASFI, et a
l'orientation generale de retrait des  activit6s ne relevant pas directement de sa
competence,  I'Etat s'est desengage du secteur bancaire,   a regularise les



40
engagements du secteur public et s'est abstenu d'en solliciter de nouveau, a renforCe
au contraire son r6le de tutelle generale sur le secteur financier.
1- Desengagement du capital des banques
Apres la mise en liquidation des banques de developpement ouJ il etait
majoritaire ( BIDI, CCI, BNDA) I'Etat a r6duit ou limite-sa participation dans les banques
commerciales . Sa part dans la SIB est revenu de 47% a 20%, apres apurement des
pertes et realisation de I'augmentation de capital de 4 milliards, dans la BICICI de 22%
a 20% par cessions. Au sein de la SGBCI, I'Etat a du se substituer, pour la
recapitalisation, aux actionnaires nationaux qui ne pouvaient etre appeles. Sa part qui
etait de 8% est ainsi passe a 17% , proportion qui reste inferieure au seuil de 20%
auquel ['Etat s'est engage.
Le sauvetage de la BIAO, dont la liquidation avait e  ecartee, a conduit I'Etat a
detenir temporairement 100% du capital de la banque, avant que de nouveaux
partenaires puissent etre trouv6s.  Apres  assainissement complet du bilan et
r6tablissement de l'quilibre d'exploitation, la cession des actions detenues par I'Etat,
retardee par la conjoncture economique generale peu attractive, s'avere d6sormais
imminente, plusieurs offres concurrentes s'etant manifest6es.
Dans la BHCI nouvellement cre6e ( 1993), I'Etat a de meme limit6 son apport a
19% du capitat-de 7 milliard, en depit de la mission d'interet general assum6e par la
banque pour le financement du logement social.
La CAA-gestion des d6p6ts a ete maintenue comme institution financiere sous
controle de I'Etat. Cependant, elle a fait l'objet d'une restructuration, d'une stricte
limitation de son secteur d'intervention de facon a rester dans le r6le d'un organe
centralisateur de la tresorerie qu'elle a d'ailleurs pu assumer en preservant sa liquidit6.
2- Regularisation des engagements du secteur public
Les importantes cr6ances arri6rees du secteur public tant a l'egard des banques
que des soci6tft d'assurances ont e  r6gularisees. Ont ainsi fait l'objet de traitements
appropries:
- les encours en souffrance chez les banques sur des societes du secteur public
non solvables ont ete repris par l'Etat, en 1992, pour un montant arrete a 201
milliards dont 13 milliards ont ete payes comptant, 22 milliards sur 3 ans et 166
milliards titrises sur 15 ans a 3%,
- la partie non 6chue au 31 decembre 1991 de ces engagements et qui n'avait
pas ete reglee au 31 D1cembre 1993 a ete de meme reprise par l'Etat, en 1994, pour
un montant de 22 milliards remboursable en 15 ans au taux de 8%,
- les engagements en souffrance de societ6s du secteur public dans les livres de
la Caisse autonome- gestion des D6p6ts (33 milliards) ont et6 consolides sur 15 ans,
au taux de 0,50% ( 0.75% durant deux ans de differe)



41
- les arri6r6s de la Caisse de Stabilisation a I'egard des exportateurs, qui
pesaient indirectement sur les banques, pour un montant de 168,7 milliards
remboursable pour 155 milliards sur 12 ans au taux de 8% et pour 13 milliards in fine,
- les arrieres de la Caisse de Stabilisation a l'egard des compagnies
d'assurances (2,2 milliards) ont et6 entierement sold6s, alors que ceux qui etaient dus
par la SOTRA ou d'autres societes publiques ont.6t6 regularises ou inscrits dans les
plans de restructuration,
- les arrieres de la Caisse de Stabilisation au titre des soutiens de la filiere riz
viennent egaiement de faire l'objet d'une titrisation de 8 milliards, au taux de 8 %
remboursable en 12 ans, net des immobilisations reprises par les entreprises pour 6,8
milliards,
- les arrieres afferents aux emprunts CAA et FNI a P'egard des compagnies
d'assurances ont ete regularises par des compensations avec des dettes fiscales pour
plus de 2 milliards et ont fait, egalement, I'objet de reglements pour un montant de 5
milliards et l'objet d'une reconduction pour 7 milliards,
- les engagements de l'EECI a I'6gard des banques- transfer6s depuis au Fonds
National de l'4ectdMcif ( FNEE) ont fait l'objet d'une restructuration portant sur 45
milliards dont 9,3 milliards payables sur 2 ans ( 1994 et 1995) et 38 milliards
remboursables eq 12 ans au taux de 10%,
- les engagements en souffrance au titre de la dette avalisee ont 6te 6galernent
traites en totalite, dans le cadre des dispositions qui viennent d'etre evoques, sous
r.serve de l'achevement du plan de restructuration de la SITRAM et d&une dette_de 8
milliards a l'egard des banques.
Auparavant, les credits de campagne anterieurs a 1989 et non d6nou6s, dont le
montant s'levait a 68 milliards ont ete de meme consolides sur 15 ans.
Finalement c'est l'ensemble des engagements publics, directs ou indirects a
l'6gard du secteur bancaire qui a pu Wtre traite alors qu'aucune nouvelle dette du
secteur public n'a ete contractee, soit directement, soit sous forme d'aval de la part de
I'Etat.
Cette importante operation d'assainissement a eu pour effet d'am6liorer la
liquiditb des banques, grace aux versements comptants, de d6gager des int6rets et des
provisions reserves, qui ont permis de renforcer la solvabilite et de regulariser les flux
financiers et de revenus des banques pour l'avenir, a un niveau tout a fait compatible
avec l'equilibre de leur exploitation.
Tous les engagements contractuels pris dans le cadre des operations qui
viennent d'etre rappel6s etaient a jour au 30 Juin 1994 et les dispositions sont prises
pour qu'il en soit de meme a fin Decembre 1994.



42
3 - Renforcement du r6le de la tutelle
Les faiblesses constatees precedemment dans le contr6le et la surveillance des
institutions du secteur financier ont pu etre redressees par la mise en place de
dispositifs institutionnel nouveaux ou renforces.:
- Les banques et etablissements financiers, -sont desormais soumis, depuis 1990
au contr6le de la Commission bancaire de l'UMOA, institution a caractere regional
chargee d'exercer les verifications sur pieces et sur places.
Depuis la mise en place du PASFI, toutes les banques ont 6te contr6lees au
moins deux fois. Le Gouvernement a transmis aux banques concemees les injonctions
qui ont pu leur etre adress6es pour se mettre en conformite avec la reglementation.
La creation d'une nouvelle banque ( BHCI) et les modifications touchant
I'actionnariat ( Banque REAL, BACI, ..) ou d'autres aspects de la solvabilite des
banques ont et6 subordonn6s a l'avis conforme de la Commission Bancaire.
- La surveillance des compagnies d'assurances a et6 renforc6e, par le bais
crenqubtes syst6matiques et la prochaine mise en application du Code CIMA
soumettra l'agr6mept des societes, ainsi que leur surveillance a une organisation
r6gionale de coTntr6le cr6ee dans le cadre de ce traite.
En attendant, le respect des obligations r6glementaires imposes aux soci6t6s
d'assurances a at6 poursuivis a la faveur en particulier de plans de restructuration
6tudi6s cas par cas.
L a tutelle de la Bourse des Valeurs a ete mat6rialis6e de fa9on plus precise en
etant confiee explicitement de la Direction des Assurances qui a regu a cette-fin le
renfort d'un cadre qui a suivi une formation particli&re. La mise en place d'un marche
financier regional se traduira, le moment venu, par l'institution d'un dispositif de
contr6le appropri6 de l'activite boursiere et de l'appel public a l'epargne.
B- Am6liorations de l'intermediation financiere et de I'environnement
r6glementaire et institutionnel
Les am6liorations a apporter au secteur financier dans son ensemble
devaient avoir pour objectifs de renforcer et de diversifier l'intermrdiation financiee,
de lui assurer de meilleures conditions de fonctionnement par des reformes de
1'environnement reglementaire et institutionnel.
1- Renforcement et diversification de l'interm6diation financiere
Conform6ment aux orientations du programme des actions ont ete prises
pour elargir l'acces au cr6dit et renforcer la mobilisation de l'6pargne.



a- Acces aux financements                            43
- Dans le secteur aaricole la liquidation de la BNDA a fait apparaitre des
insuffisances non pour le financement des grandes filieres mais pour l'octroi de prets
d'equipement, de commercialisation ou de soudures au profit des petits planteurs ou
des organismes a caractere cooperatif.
Pour repondre a ces pr6occupations:
* un Fonds de garantie des Groupements a vocation cooperative a et6
cree et dote de 4 milliards de FCA en vue de garantir les prets consentis par les
banques a ces groupements. La mise en place du Fonds a permis aux GVC de prendre
une part importante dans la commercialisation des produits agricoles, comme le
souhaitait le Gouvemement, afin de securiser les revenus des producteurs,
* des Fonds nationaux ont ete egalement cr6es et dotes ( pour 3,5
milliards) pour faciliter la diversification agricole et l'installation de jeunes agriculteurs
ou encore l'insertion des jeunes dipl6mes et les deflat6s du secteur public. Ces Fonds
ont pour principal objet de garantir des prets.
- les credits aux planteurs d'h6v6a pr6c6demment g6res par la BNDA ont
6t6 transferes-a  la Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement alors que leur gestion est
assur6e par l'Association professionnelle des planteurs d'hev6a (AIPPH) cr46 a cette
fin.
De plus, le d6veloppement du projet de promotion de r6habilitation et des CREP
doit permettre de couvrir ne partie des besoins de cr6dit personnels et d'6quipement
des zones rurales..
- Le financement du loaement, principalement a caractere social, doit 6tre de son c6t6
stimul6 par:
* l'octroi d'une dotation de 6 milliards au Compte de mobilisation de l'Habitat
(CDMH) qui permet aux banques de refinancer, sous certaines conditions, des
logements de moyenne .cat6gorie,
* le renforcement substantiel de la dotation du Fonds de soutien de l'Habitat,
port6e a 3 milliards, destin6 a bonifier les ressources de la Banque de l'Habitat, en
faveur des logements des cat6gories les plus modestes.
- En ce aui conceme les PME. les difficult6s rencontr6es pr6c6demment par les
mecanismes publics de soutien ( Fonds national de Garantie, CAPEN, mis en
liquidation) ont conduit a rechercher un dispositif fonctionnant avec des regles de
gestion priv6e, sous contr6le de l'utilisation des fonds publics.
Les etudes conduites en relations avec des bailleurs de fonds ( en particulier la
BAD) ont permis de d6gager les principales orientations qui devraient se traduire par
la mise en place d'une structure reposant sur 1'expertise priv6e pour le suivi et
1'6valuation, la mise en place de fonds de garantie et de participation, notamment a
forme mutuelle.



44
Pour les " micro- projets", divers Fonds nationaux nouvellement cr6es ou mieux
dotes ( Fonds de la jeunesse, Fonds Femme et Developpement, Fonds d'insertion des
jeunes dipl6mes..) permettront l'octroi de financements appropri6s aux promoteurs
dont les projets auront pu etre evalues.
Sur un plan plus g6neral, il est a noter que l'amelioration de la situation
financiere des banques, I'abondance de liquidites faisant suite a la d6valuation,
l'abandon du bareme et le d6veloppement de la concurrence sur les taux et les
services ont rendu le systeme bancaire, dans son ensemble, plus accessible et plus
ouvert aux demandes de financement de projets.
b- Mobilisation de l'Mparqne
La mobilisation de l'6pargne int6rieure constituait l'un des volets
importants du programme PASFI. Diff6rentes mesures ont et6 pries pour la renforcer.
- La collecte de l'6parane en zone rurale, et de maniere plus gen6rale celle des
populations, y compris urbaine, a niveau de vie modeste, doit etre favoris6e par le
developpement d'organismes a caractere mutualiste et cooperatif. Le projet CREP
soutenu par un important concours de la Banque Mondiale et d'autres bailleurs de
fonds ( pour un total de 6 milliards de FCFA) est entr6 dans sa phase operationnelle et
les premiers resultats sont favorables: l'objectif a fin Septembre est d6passe pur le
nombre de Caisses en activite ( 84) et le montant de l'epargne collect6e, ( 1 milliard, +
117% en 2 ans).
- Un comitM pour la mobilisation de l'Eparane a ete cree en 1992 en vue de faire
des propositions susceptibles de d'accroTtre l'epargne nationale. Ses recommandations
sont deja mises en application sur les points suivants:
* renforcement du secret bancaire, qui d6toumait des deposants des
banques locales, par la prise d'une Loi specifique qui a 6te adopt6e en 1993,
* creation d'un Livret d'epargne populaire defiscalis6,( exon6ration de l'RC
et de l'GR)
* restauration de la confiance du public dans les emprunts de la CAA
en permettant a celle-ci d'affecter, par priorit6, les montants collectes au service des
emissions en cours,
* defiscalisation de produits d'assurances par suppression de la taxe
frappant les primes d'assurances sur la vie.
* loi et d6cret d'application (1992,1993) autorisant la creation
d'organismes de placements collectifs (OPCVM) et  fixant leurs regles de
fonctionnement.
- La redynamisation du marche financier, apres la restructuration de la BVA et le
lancement des op6rations de privatisation s'est manifeste avec vigueur:
* 7 dossiers d'appel public a l'6pargne ont ete approuv6s en 1993, dont 1
pour une emission obligataire ( BOAD), ainsi que l'introduction d'une SICAV
intemationale ( SICAV Nord Sud d6veloppement),



45
* le montant des emissions primaires s'est eleve a 2,2 milliards pour les
obligations, a 6 milliards pour les actions,. dont 2,1 milliards par souscriptions de titres
ou cessions d'actions privatisees.
- Les services financiers de la Poste font l'objet d'une restructuration qui doit
permettre de pr6server le potentiel de collecte de ce r6seau.
- Enfin, des retours de capitaux ont et6 constates apres la d6valuation qui
attestent d'un retour a la confiance d'une epargne qui avait fui et que le meilleur
fonctionnement du systeme bancaire contribue a rassurer.
2- Ameliorations de l'environnement institutionnel et r6glementaire
Dans le sens des orientations et du programme des dispositions ont ete prises
pour reduire les rigidites reglementaires, faire jouer davantage les mecanismes de
marche et faciliter l'acces a la justice.
a)- Liberalisation de la Dolitipue monetaire et renforcement du dispositif
Drudentiel
Le mouvement de liberalisation des instruments de politique mon6taire, amorce
d6s 1989 par les Autorites de l'UMOA, s'est poursuivi: ( documents a foumir par la
BCEAO)::
- les rapprochements entre offres et besoins de liquidite se font par
l'interm6diaire du marche mon6taire sur lequel la BCEAO intervient par une procedure
d'adjudication,
- le reglage de la liquidite bancaire se fait par le jeu des reserves
obligatoires et des taux du marche monetaire,
- afin de ne pas figer les interventions de la Banque Centrale les concours
consolides (186 inilliards) ont 6te transformes en titres d'emprunts, au taux de 5%,
garantis par la BCEAO et offerts par elle sur le marche monetaire
- les conditions de banques ont 6t6 lib6ralis6es, en particulier les
conditions debitrices ont et rendues libres - dans la limite de l'usure, qui a fait l'objet
d'une nouvelle d6finition-
La mise en place de ces mecanismes a eu pour effet d'enlever son caractere de
taux de reference au taux d'e.scompte de la BCEAO et d'inciter les banques a pratiquer
des taux decoulant du cout moyen de leurs ressources. II en et result6 davantage de
concurrence entre les banques et un abaissement du coat du credit, cons6cutivement a
l'afflux de liquidites.
Par ailleurs, le dispositif prudentiel a et revu dans le sens du renforcement des
regles de solvabilite et des regles de division des risques.
Les regles de distribution du credit , pour l'octroi d'accords de mobilisation.
concourent au meme but, en imposant en particulier, le respect d'equilibre financier de
bases.



46
11 est rappele en outre que, les financements de campagnes agricoles, dont les
d6ficits ont pese sur le systeme bancaire, doivent etre equilibres ex ante et que les
soci6te de commercialisation doivent respecter les regles minimales de solvabilite. de
plus, le cadre juridiqye de la tierce d6tention va etrerenforce par une Loi qui a et
soumise a I'Assemblee Nationale.
b- R6glementation des assurances
- Le cadre reglementaire des Assurances a ete renforc6 sur de nombreux points:
* Lois relatives aux procedures et modes de reglement des sinistres
automobiles (1989), a la reduction du delai de prescription de 30 ans a 5 ans (1992),
portant r6glementation de la profession de courtiers d'assurances ( 1991), et Decrets
d'application y affrents,
* arretes fixant le mode de calcul des provisions techniques ( 1991) et
reglementant les placements des soci6t6s ( 1991).
- Cependant la reglementation applicable aux societes d'assurances va etre
r6gie par le traite de la conference interafricaine des marches d'assurances (CIMA)
sign6 a Yaounde le 10 Juillet 1992, entre en vigueur, apres ratification le 14 Avril
1994. Ses annexes, dont le code des Assurances vont prochainement etre mises en
vigueur et d'application generale.
c- 16qlementation du marche financier
- Un nou97eau r6glement de la bourse des valeurs, se substituant a celui de
1976, a ete homojogu6 en 1994. II fixe l'ensemble des dispositions relatives aux
admissions et aux radiations de la cote, aux negociations, aux operations d'offres
publiques . IL fixe aussi, et pour la premieres fois, les conditions d'agrement et
d'exercice des auxiliaires de la bourse, denommes " apporteurs d'affaires".
- Sur le plan fonctionnel, il y a lieu de relever la creation d'un nouvel indice
d'evolution des valeurs (12VB), I'abandon du plafonnement des ecarts de cotation pour
les obligations-1993), l'introduction de la cotation assist6e par ordinateur pour les
obligations
d- Dispositif iuridique
La legislation a 6t6. revue dans le but d'accblerer les procedures de
recouvrement et de reduire leurs coGts pour les justiciables:
* Lois relatives au recouvrement simplifie des creances commerciales (
1993) a I'arbitrage (1993) , a la modification de diverses dispositions du code de
procAdure civile, commerciale et administrative,
* Annexe fiscale de 1992 et 1993, exonerant, sous certaines conditions
les droits de mutation sur les immeubles adjugees aux banques dans le cadre de
recouvrement par voie judiciaire et suppression de la consignation de 5% sur le
montant de la creance qui etait exige du greffe lors de l(introduction d'une instance
judiciaire.



47
11 ASSAINISSEMENT ET RESTRUCTURATION DU SECTEUR FINANCIER
La d6t6rioration de la situation financiere et des conditions de fonctionnement
defectueuses ou trop on6reuses exigeait un important effort d'assainissement et de
restructuration. Ont 6t6 ainsi mis en oeuvre, le redressement financier des banques,
ainsi que des compagnies d'assurances, la reorganisation de la CAA-GDD, la creation
d'une structure unique de recouvrement des creances des banques liquid6es, la
r6organisation de la Bourse des valeurs d'Abidjan.
A- Assainissement des banques
Volet important du PASFI par I'ampleur des sommes mises en jeu et ses effets
sur le financement de l'6conomie, la rehabilitation du systeme bancaire a ete conduite
sur la base d'accords conclus entre l'Etat, les banques et les actionnaires. Les
dispositions ont pu en etre realis6es , avec quelques d6calages par rapport au
calendrier prevu et ont produit, globalement, les effets attendus, la devaluation du
FCFA les ayant accentue sous reserves des pertes de change qui ont du etre
constat6es dans certains cas.
1- Rappel du dispositif et realisations
L'assainis-sement des banques avait pour triple objectif de retablir leur liquidit6,
leur solvabilite et leur rentabilite.
UJne d6marche concerte d'analyse de leur situation a 6te conduite avec les
atablissements, la Commission Bancaire et la BCEAO, ainsi que les bailleurs defonds.
Ils ont d6termines les elements A prendre en consideration et les modalites de
financement et de redressement qui ont ete retraces dans les conventions et des etats
previsionnels anrexes. -
a- baseset principes de I'assainissement
- Les bases a retenir pour I'assainissement, qui concemait les quatre principales
banques (BIAOCI, BICICI, SGBCI, SIB) ont ete determines ainsi:
* les creances en souffrance sur le secteur priv6 compromises ou a recouvrer,
elles ont 6t6 chiffrees,, respectivement A 65 milliards et 53 milliards,
* les creances sur le secteur public en souffrance a r6gulariser, dont le montant
est ressorti A 201 milliards,
* le besoin de fonds propres apres imputation des provisions complementaires et
des pertes, chiffr6 a 13 milliards
* les dispositions de c;estion a prendre pour assurer l'equilibre de 1'exploitation.
- les modalites d'apurementl devaient se faire sur les bases suivantes:



48
* couverture par les actionnaires du besoin de fonds propres, resultant de la
passation des provisions sur creances privees, compromises, de la couverture des
pertes et du respect des ratios de solvabilite, I'Etat y participant pour sa part,
* prise en charge par l'Etat des creances sur le secteur public et r6glement par
un versement de 13 milliards payables en 2 ans et remises de titres a 3% payables en
15 ans dont 2 de differ6,; toutefois les encours des " petites banques " ont ete
rembourses et une cr6ance de 22 milliards de la SIB devait faire l'objet d'un r6glement
particulier sur 3 ans,
* admission au refinancement par la BCEAO des titres, a hauteur de 90% des
encours, au taux special de 3% et cu6ation d'un Fonds special de garantie destine a
recevoir les provisions a constituer par le Tresor pour assurer le reglement des
echeances.
- Quant aux mesures destinees a redresser l'exploitation, elles 6taient decrites dans
une annexe propre a chaque etablissement.
b- Realisations
- Versements de l'Etat:
* Les charges decoulant de sa participation au programme
d'assainissement bancaire, pouvaient globalement etre chiffrees a 90 milliards au titre
des reglements-cormIptant ( en tenant compte des consolidations relatives aux banques
publiques liquidees etau credit de campagne. d6class6s).
L'Etat a obtenu de la Banque Mondiale, de la BAD et de la France des
concours financiers de respectivement 200 millions de dollars, 50 millions d'unites de
compte et 18 milliards ( dont 8 milliards affect6s a l'indemnisation de la BNDA)
* Touites les contributions prevues ont ete r6alis6es, avec un report en ce
qui conceme les reglements a effectuer a la SIB au titre des interets consolid6s-de la
dette EJL dont 1'encours etait de 20 milliards a fin 1993,
* les echeances relatives aux diverses titrisation sont a jour.
- Contribution des actionnaires
'(cf annexe par-banques)
* Les operations de recapitalisation qui etaient prevues ont ete effectuees.
Toutefois, il est apparu un besoin compl6mentaire de provision de l'ordre
de 20 milliards dont la Societe gen6rale et l'Etat se proposent de couvrir selon des
modalites en cours de discussions.
Par ailleurs, le maintien d'une importante ligne de refinancement du Credit
Lyonnais a la SIB (20 milliards) a entraTnL une perte de change de meme
montant. Un accord est en voie d'etre trouve entre le credit Lyonnais et I'Etat pour
couvrir cette perte.
- Redressement de l'exploitation
Un redressement des conditions d'exploitation est perceptible ( cf annexe
detaill6e par banques)
2- Resultats obtenus



49
a)-Sur un plan ae6neral, un net redressement de la situation du
secteur bancaire s'est manifeste d6s la mise en execution du PASFI:
* la liquidit6 bancaire 'est amelior6 de quelque 32 milliards entre Decembre 1991
et Juin 1992, sous l'effet des reglements comptants de l'Etat ( 30 milliards)
* 1'endettement des vis a vis de la BCEAO s'est contract6 de 57 milliards durant
la meme periode, et les soldes debiteurs, non couverts par des effets ( 17 milliards ) ont
pu etre apures en totalite.,
* le respect des ratios prudentiels, notamment la representation du capital
minimum, a pu etre plus normalement assure.
Cependant, les anticipations sur la devaluation du FCFA et les vives
tensions de la tresorerie publique durant l'ann6e 1993 avaient  entrain6 un net
resserrement de la liquidite bancaire, alors que la deterioration de la situation des
entreprises justifiait la constitution de provisions complementaires.
La situation a radicalement change apres la devaluation qui a provoque un afflux
de capitaux    et permis A de nombreuses entreprises, exportatrices principalement,
de redresser tres rapidement leur situation.
Le flechissement des taux d'int6ret, lie A l'abondance de liquidit6s ( la position
exterieure du systeme bancaire s'est amelioree de 390 milliards au cours du premier
semestre 1994)-et fintensification de la concurrence, imposent cependant aux banques
la poursuite d'une gestion rigoureuse.
b)*-nvolution des etablissements ( commentaires sur etats annexes)
B-Assainissement des assurances
L'assainissement du secteur des assurances s'est realise par des
regroupement de portefeuilles, la mise en oeuvre de plans d'assainissements, Ii6s a la
r6gularisation de dettes du secteur public et a la liquidation de compagnies..
- 1- Rearouoement de portefeuilles
Nombre d'agences de societes etrangeres, A l'activite marginale, etaient encore
presentes sur le marche. Aussi, ont -elles ete incit6es A transferer leur portefeuille A
des entreprises ayant une assise locale suffisante. Le nombre des soci6t6s
d'assurances est ainsi passe de 40 en 1990 A 29 actuellement. Trois autres transferts
sont encore en cours.
-2- Plans d'assainissement des soci6tes d'assurances
Les insuffisances de gestion et les situations irregulieres decelees a roccasion
de contr6le sur pieces et sur place ont conduit a demander aux sociit6s concemees A
prendre des mesures de recapitalisation, de couverture de risques et de gestion qui ont



50
ete retrac6s dans des conventions liant les remboursements de dettes publiques aux
contributions des actionnaires.
Ces dispositions ont concern6 21 soci6t6s. L'ex6cution des plans a commence et
connaissent une realisation satisfaisante, a l'exception d'une compagnie ( cf annexe).
Au total, l'effort de propres qui s'elevait a 11 milliards a fin 1992 a pu 6tre
ramene a 3,6 milliards a fin 1993. le besoin de couverture des provisions qui etait de 12
milliards est revenu a 2,5 milliards aux memes dates.
IL est a noter que deux soci6t6s dont la situation est apparu irremediablement
compromise ont 6t6 mises en liquidation.
-3- Apurement des arri6r6s de I'Etat
L'Etat a proc6de a d'importants apurement d'arrieres publics:12 milliards
d'arrier6s, CAA, 2 milliards d'arrier6s SONAFI, FNI, 2,2 milliards de police
d'assurances.
Au total, la situation des societ6s d'assurances est en net redressement, a une
exception notable pres.
C- Restructuration de la CAA-GDD
- La CAA- GDDD a fait l'objet d'un plan de restructuration qui s'est integr6 dans le
plan reorganisation d'ensemble de la Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement.
L'objectifrtait de
* rationaliser les structures,
* alleger les couts de fonctionnement par une reduction des services et
des effectifs,
- Les missions et le domaine d'intervention de la CAA-GDD ont ete red6finis, son
activit6 etant oriente, principalement vers la besoin de la tresorerie des etablissements
publics, avec la possibilite d'octroi d'avances a court terme uniquement.
- Afin de-mettre l'institution en conformite avec la reglementation bancaire, des
mesures d'assainissement ont ete engag6es:
* affectation d'une dotation en capital de 5 milliards,
* prise en charge par l'Etat des creances en souffrance, dont le montant,
net des provisions ressortait a 33 milliards,
* titrisation de cet encours sur 15 ans dont 2 de difflre, au taux de 0.75%,
durant la p6riode de differ6 de 0.5% durant la periode de remboursement.
Les resultats ( cf note annnexe)
D- Gestion des banques en liquidation et recouvrements
La mise en liquidation de 5 banques et de 3 etablissements financier a
justifie de prendre des mesures de gestion, de renforcer les recouvrements tout en
poursuivant l'indemnisation des d6posants priv6s.



51
1- Creation d'une structure unique de recouvrement
La gestion des liquidations tant des banques que des 6tablissements financiers a
ete confiee a un 6tablissement public cr6e A cette fin, la SONARECI.
Les diligences suivantes ont ete accomplies:
* la mise en place des structures, des moyens et des regles de fonctionnement
de l'tablissement.
* la prise en charge des cr6ances d6tenues par les banques en liquidation, ainsi
que celles qui ont ete mises a la charge de l'Etat au titre du PASFI ( cr6ances de la
BIAO couvertes par l'Etat, creances sur le secteur public reprises des banques ..). au
total, plus de 300 milliards,
* I'arrete des bilans A la prise de fonction de la SONARECI,
Une situation consolidee a pu ainsi etre 6tablie ( cf annexe).
2- Actions de recouvrement
- Une Loi particuliere a donne A la SONARECI des privileges pour le
recouvrement sous forme d'une hypotheque legale sur les biens des debiteurs et d'une
signification pouvant etre r6alis6e par voie de presse A defaut de pouvoir etre signifie A
la personne, eT d'une procedure particuliere de contestation.
- Les resultats suivants ont pu etre obtenus : (document de la SONARECI)
3- Liquidation de la BNDA et indemnisation des d6posants
- Faute de possibilit6s de redressement, la BNDA a e  mise en liqwdation
judiciaire et l'admistrateur delegue, expatrie, a ete nomme liquidateur. II a ete
remplazc6 par la SONARECI, apres sa demission.
- L'indemnisation des deposants a ete realisee par vague successives, sous
forme de rachit de cr6ances par Fonds special:
* pour un montant de 8 milliards qui a permis de rembourser a hauteur de
200 mille francs tous les dep6ts inf6rieurs 1 millions, ainsi que ceux des associations
et les avoirs des caisses mutuelles d' epargne,
* pour un montant de 3,5 milliards, destines A rembourser les d6p6ts
recens6s au nom d'agriculteurs, et de GVC dans leur integralite ainsi que les dep6ts
compris entre 1 et 4 Millions a hauteur de 20%
Les montants restant A rembourser s'elevent A environ 15 milliards et une
nouvelle serie d'indemnisation pour completer les remboursements deja effectu6s ou
pour toucher de nouvelle categories. La consolidation des dep6ts publics ( environ 8
milliards) et eventuellement d'antres encours devrait cependant etre d6cid6.



52
E- RESTRUCTURATION DE LA BOURSE DES VALEURS D'ABIDJAN
- La Bourse des Valeurs d'Abidjan a et6 restructure en vue de redynamiser son
activit6 par un abaissement de ses coCits de fonctionnement et la mise en oeuvre de
nouvelles regles de fonctionnement.
- Les dispositions prises ont permis:
* la consolidation des recettes, hors de toutes subventions, en depit d'un
abaissement des tarifs, ( cf note annexe)
* la couverture des charges de fonctionnement, avec un ratio de charges
salariales de 49%, inferieur au plafond de 60%, g6n6ralement considere comme un
maximum, en depit d'une augmentation importante du budget de fonctionnement en
1994( + 53,16%) explicable, pour une part par les effets de la d6valuation.
- L2activite de la Bourse a enregistre une nette progression:
1992       1993       1994
(30/08)
- nombres de titres 6chang6s   108    121        257
(en milliers)
-capitaux echang6s
(en milliards)             1,14       1,61       5,35
- capitalisationrboursiere
(en milliards)  -- -       122        122        182
- La cregtion d'un marche financier regional, en voie de realisation devrait ouvrir
de nouvelles perspectives a l'activit6 boursiere.
III RELATIONS AVEC LA BANQUE MONDIALE
La Banqbe Mondiale a joue un r6le de premier plan pour l'elaboration et le suivi
du programme de restructuration et d'assainissement du secteur financier dans le cadre
de l'6valuatioTf et de la negociation de I'Accord du pret d'ajustement structurel du
secteur financier (PASFI) qui a ete signe en Octobre 1991.
A- Elaboration de la strat6qie et des modalit6s d'assainissement
Un diagnostic d'ensemble sur le secteur financier a ete 6tabli, des 1989, par une
mission de la Banque. II a mis en 6vidence
- les donnees financieres a prendre en consideration, en particulier,
* l'importance des creances gel6es portees, directement ou indirectement par les
banques; les premieres evaluations ont donne un ordre de grandeur qui n'a pas ete
remis en cause par les evaluations ulterieures,
* le poids tres 6leve egalement des cr6ances gelees du secteur public, au sens
large du terme, ainsi que sur les engagements bancaires des exportateurs Mies au non
paiement de soutiens par la Caisse de Stabilisation, ce demier 6l6ment, par sa masse (



53
plus de 150 milliards) exercant une pression considerable sur la liquidite et la
solvabilite des banques,
- les besoins de recapitalisation,
- ainsi que les charges potentielles de l'Etat, decoulant de I'assainissement.,
- la n6cessite de r6formes institutionnelles permettant d'6viter le retour de situations
irregulieres ou desequilibr6es, et d'obtenir un meilleur fonctionnement du systeme dans
son ensemble, tant dans le domaine monetaire, bancaire, des soci6t6s d'assurances,
du marche financier et de la justice.
La strat6qie a 6te mise au point, progressivement, a la suite de nombreuses
s6ances de concertation avec les Autorit6s, les repr6sentants des operateurs, la
BCEAO et d'autres bailleurs de fonds. La Banque Mondiale s'est attach6 a faire
promouvoir
- le d6sengagement de l'Etat,
- la mise en oeuvre de reformes institutionnelles rapides,
- la n6cessite d'un assainissement financier aussi pousse que possible, impliquant non
seulement l'Etat, les partenaires mais egalement la BCEAO, A ce titre, il a 6t6 arrete,
en I'absence d'autres solutions, de ne pas remettre en cause la signature de rEtat au
titre de dettes l'engageant directement ou indirectement.
- a prise de mesures radicales si elles s'imposaient, comme la liquidation de la BNDA.
De nombreuses simulations sur les modalites financieres ont et6 effectuees, en
concertation avec les differentes parties, avant que les plans assainissement puissent
etre arret6s. La 13anque Mondiale y a participe tres activement. Le point le plus d6licat
concermait le mode ce couverture des charges de l'Etat.
B- Suivi du Programme
La Banqud Mondiale a suivi tres r6gulierement 1'execution du programme,
- tant pour s'assurer de la r6alisation des conditions posees par l'accord de pret,
- que pour appuyer ou faciliter 1'execution de ses diverses composantes. M. Ryba s'est
ainsi attach6 a pousser les reformes relevant de la justice, a activer la recherche de
partenaires pour la BIAOCI, a faciliter l'entente entre exportateurs et banques pour le
reglement ce leurs dettes.
C-Acpr6ciation d'ensemble
Globalement, le bilan du programme peut etre considere comme positif. II a
regularis6 et amelioration la situation d'un secteur vital de l'conomie et I'a mis dans de
bonnes conditions pour mieux remplir son r6le. Les missions de la Banque ont jou6 un
r6le catalyseur pour le bon deroulement du programme.



54
Le programme a pu etre r6alise avec plus ou moins de facilite selon les
obligations incombant a l'Etat:
- les r6formes institutionnelles ont pu etre menees A bien dans des d6lais
raisonnables,
- le respect des obligations financidres s'est avere plus delicat, faute d'etalement
suffisant, pour des montants trop 6leves ( int6rets de la dette EJL),
Le montage financier peut apparattre lourd pour I'Etat. Cependant, le coot du
financement des dettes en cours a ete tres sensiblement reduits par rapport aux
conditions contractuelles et la reprise d'engagements laisses en desherence a eu pour
contrepartie une  implication   plus marquee des autres partenaires. 11 est
particulierement heureux, a cet 6gard, que les obligations reciproques aient ete fixees
par des conventions pass6es entre les banques, les societ6s d'assurances et l'Etat.
Sur le plan fonctionnel, si de tres bons resultats sont obtenus pour les
assurances et la Bourse des Valeurs, il reste que le secteur bancaire n'a pu etre
diversifie comme cela 6tait envisag6. A cat 6gard, il est regrettable qu'une banque
rurale privee n'ait pu prendre le relais de la BNDA dont la liquidation s'imposait sans
doutae. Au surplus, l'indemnisation des dbposants s'avere difficile A mener A son terme.
Ces consid6rations et les resultats favorables du programme, ainsi que l'appui
efficace de la tanque Mondiale conduisent a envisager la mise en place d'un PASFI
11 qui viendrait renforcer et completer les acquis du premier.












U:)
--4
'-!   I
= V
C1                               14
H  ~~~~~-
r                           11 ...
!V   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,~~~~~~~~~~~



