Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2303 IVC
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 4, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2303 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
"Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated September 6, 1991 from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's financial sector (hereinafter called 
the "Program"), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, 
and requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed 
imports required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the "Bank") to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the imports required during execution of the Program and by an agreement of even date 
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the "Loan Agreement"), the Bank is 
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one 
hundred and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000) (the "Loan");
Page  2
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Program before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan are made; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
 
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement 
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1993 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
Page  3
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, theBorrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2001 and ending May 1, 2026. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2011, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The President of CAA is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts CAA with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
the Credit and the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to 
be furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications 
shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of 
aggregate amounts of not less than $700,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Page  5
(b)
That the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is not consistent 
with the objectives of the Program.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. If the Loan Agreement terminates prior to the termination of this 
Agreement, the provisions of the Loan Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and
effect between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre Delegue aupres du Premier Ministre
   Charge de l'Economie, des Finances,
   du Commerce et du Plan
B.P. V-125
Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
Page  6
By /s/ Charles Gomis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the 
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group     Sub-group           Description of Items
112         -                 Alcoholic beverages
121         -                 Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                              tobacco refuse
122         -                 Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                              or not containing tobacco
                              substitutes)
525         -                 Radioactive and associated
                              materials
667         -                 Pearls, precious and semi-
                              precious stones, unworked or
                              worked
718       718.7               Nuclear reactors, and parts
                              thereof, fuel elements
                              (cartridges), non-irradiated
                              for nuclear reactors
897       897.3               Jewelry of gold, silver or
                              platinum group metals (except
                              watches and watch cases) and
                              goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                              wares (including set gems)
971         -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
   gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that 
of another country,
expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the territory of such other 
Page  7
country;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
7,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after the date falling four months prior to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $500,000 may be permitted by the 
Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
"Guidelines"), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $2,000,000 shall be awarded:
Page  8
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Association; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except 
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used where 
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded commodities 
may be procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to 
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit 
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may 
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
