( 0FFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 2303-1 IVC
(Amendment)
Agr.eement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             s1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2303-1 IVC
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the Borrower) and INTERM&TIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into
a Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
dated October 4, 1991 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during the execution of the Borrower's program to achieve
structural adjustment in the financial sector (the Program);
(B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Program by
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-
two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 72,400,000); and
WHEREAS tho Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon, the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Ameandments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. A proviso is added at the end of Section 1.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"snd the term "Amending Agreement' means the Agreement
Ameuding the Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and the Association."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred ten
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 110,000,000) (the Credit),
which includes, (a) an original amount in various currencies


﻿- 2 -
equivalent to thirty-seven million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,600,000) (the Initial
Financing); and (b) an additional amount in varicus currencies
equivalent to seventy-two million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 72,400,000) (the Additional
Financing)."
Section 1.03. The first sentence of Section 2.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1993 with
respect to the Initial Financing and June 30, 1994 with
respect to the Additional Financing, or such later date as the
Association shall establish."
Section 1.04. A proviso is added at the end of paragraph
(b)(i) of Section 2.04 of the Developtm.ent Credit Agreement reading
as follows:
"; provided, however, that commitment charges on the
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after
the date of the Amending Agreement."
Section 1.05. Section 3.01 (a) of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"(a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out t-he Program and the actions specified
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 1.06. SchedUle I to the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Appendix 1 to
this Amending Agreement."
Section 1.07. The Development Credit Agreement is amended by
the addition of a Schedule 3 to tead in its entirety as set forth in
Appendix 2 to this Amending Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished
to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on
behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been
executed.


﻿-4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement
to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
BY AU- I cW                koxqcq
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                       &
ReByonal Vice President
Africa


﻿-5-
APPENDIX 1
"SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group       Sub-group               Description of Items
112                                 Alcoholic beverages
121                                 Tobacco,    unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122                                 Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                                 Radioactive   and   associated
materials
667                                 Pearls, precious    and  semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked


﻿-6-
GroLp       Sub-grou-               Description of Items
718         718.7                   Nuclear reactors,   and parts
thereof,     fuel    elements
(cartridges),   non-irradiated
for nuclear reactors
897         897.3                   Jewelry  of gold, silvet    or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the
currency of ths Borrower is also that of another country,
expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the territory
of such other country;
(c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 7,500,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after the
date falling four months prior to the date of this Agreement;
(d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(1)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    Withdrawals  for   expenditures  under  contracts   for  the
procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$5,000,000 may be permitted by the Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify.


﻿-7-
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Creoit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 37,600,000, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described ia
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to
the Association; and (c) that the macroeconomic policy framework of
the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and,
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof."


﻿-8-
APPENDIX 2
"SCHEDULE 3
Conditions for the Release of the Second
Tranche of the Credit
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    A plan for the recapitalization and restructuring of SGBCI,
BICICI, SIB and BIAOCI has been implemented, including: (a)
settlement   of  the  Borrower's   arrears;  (b) . the  Borrower's
contribution to the write-off of their losses and recapitalization;
(c) measures to improve bad debt recovery; and (d) implementation of
additional measures to return to profitability.
2.    BCEAO has: (a) consolidated all of its claims on BNDA; (b)
extended a refinancing facility for the Treasury Bonds; and (c)
guaranteed the Treasury Bonds.
3.    (a)   a liquidator has been appointed in BNDA; (b) a plan for
repayment of BNDA's depositors has been made public and is being
implemented in accordance with its calendar; and (c) BNDA's
portfolio has been transferred to CRU.
4.    The Borrower has implemented an action plan either to
restructure or to terminate CAA's banking activities.
5.    CRU has been established.
6.    The Borrower's Law No. 89-1291 of December 18, 1989, on
vehicle accident claims has been modified: (a) in its Article 4, so
as to limit the statute of limitation on claims to ten years; and
(b) in its Articles 7 and following, so as to ensure the possibility
of out of court settlements of claims, and to allow arbitration of
claims.
7.    A restructuring plan of the Abidjan Stock Exchange and of the
regulation of stock brokerage activities is being implemented.
8.    The Borrower has: (a) modified the system of registration fees
for judicial proceedings; and (b) reorganized the Office of the
Clerk of the Court.


﻿-9-
9.    The Borrower has enacted legislation to simplify judicial
credit recovery including: (a) introduction of arbitration pro-
ceedings; (b) amendments to Law No. 83-795 of August 2, 1983, on
simplified recovery of credits; and (c) amendments to Law No. 72-833
of December 31, 1972, incorporating the Code of Civil, Commercial
and Administrative Procedure."


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in ,he archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


