Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 21772
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
LEBANON
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 4136-LE)
January 31, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.   l



CURRENCY
Currency Unit: Lebanese Pound (LL)
Exchange Rate (December 2000)
US$1 = LL 1,507.5
US$1 = JPY 113.955
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIB          =     European Investment Bank
EU           =     European Union
OECF               Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
NERP         =     National Emergency Reconstruction Program
SIU          =     Sector Implementation Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:   Sonia Hammam (Acting)



PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
LEBANON
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 4136-LE)
1.    In February 1997, the Bank's Board of Directors approved a loan of JPY 6 billion
(US$53.1 million equivalent) to the Government of Lebanon for the Coastal Pollution Control
and Water Supply Project. The Project was co-financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB)
and the OECF of Japan. The Loan did not become effective and was terminated on August 3,
1998.
Background
2.    Lebanon, which had been a prosperous middle-income country in the mid 1970s, was
only beginning to recover from the devastation caused by 15 years of violent civil strife and
military occupation. Extensive damage to physical assets occurred, both as a direct result of the
war, as well as through the accumulated effects of disruption in capital investment and
maintenance.
3.    The impact of the civil war on social conditions was equally grave. The loss of human
resources was considerable; apart from the tragic loss of life and the disabling of hundreds of
thousands of people, about 200,000 professional and skilled Lebanese sought employment in
other countries. While this resulted in major shortages of skilled workers in various sectors of the
economy, unemployment nevertheless was estimated to amount to 35 percent of the resident labor
force, and was believed to be particularly high among urban youth. Nearly one quarter of the
population of 3.6 million was displaced to live in unhealthy shanty towns and in semi-destroyed
and vacated buildings in conditions of severe overcrowding. Public and social services were
either non-existent or of poor quality, with only about one-third of power capacity operating,
water treatment was inadequate as well as wastewater collection and disposal systems and most
schools and hospitals were damaged.
4.    To redress this situation, the Government embarked upon a National Emergency
Reconstruction Program (NERP), which envisaged investments amounting to US$2.1 billion.
Nearly three-quarters of this program was in the infrastructure sectors. The Government accords
these sectors a high priority in order to provide a clean and healthy environment for Lebanon's
inhabitants and to attract business and tourism, which were essential to the country's economic
growth.
5.    Despite the country's comparative richness in water resources in a region of great water
scarcity, the water supply and sanitation sector was in disarray and unable to provide adequate
services to the majority of the population. Water treatment and disinfection facilities were mostly
malfunctioning or out of order, as were wastewater treatmnent plants. Approximately half of all
water produced was unaccounted for because of losses and billing deficiencies, while leaking
wastewater collection systems contaminated water sources and water distribution networks. There
was a lack of financial resources at every level, resulting from inadequate cost recovery, and of
clear and transparent regulatory arrangements. These service deficiencies resulted from damage
inflicted during the years of turmoil, neglect of maintenance, and from more fundamental
structural problems in the sector.



2
Project Objectives
6.     The objectives were: (i) to improve sanitary and environmental conditions in three major
urban areas of the coastal zone; (ii) to improve and extend water supply and wastewater
collection and disposal services in selected areas; (iii) to reduce groundwater and surface water
pollution; (iv) to restore the recreational use of bathing beaches; (v) to ensure satisfactory
operation and maintenance of equipment installed or rehabilitated under the National Emergency
Reconstruction Program (NERP); and (vi) to restructure the sector to improve services through
commercial operation and increased private sector participation.
Project Description
7.     The project consisted of the following major components: (i) extending water supply
facilities in Kesrouan and Nabatiye sub-project areas and wastewater collection and disposal
systems in Kesrouan, Saida, Sour, and Nabatiye sub-project areas; (ii) entering into countrywide
operation, maintenance, and training services contracts for mechanical and electrical equipment
installed or rehabilitated under the NERP, including consumable and spare part procurement; (iii)
obtaining operation and maintenance equipment and office facilities for the a proposed five
regional water authorities and for environmental monitoring; and (iv) securing consultant services
and technical assistance to establish and develop sector institutions nationally and regionally, for
environmental monitoring, for project management, for construction supervision and performance
review auditing.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
8.       Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, were estimated at
US$308 million, of which 72 percent, or US$222 million, were in foreign exchange. The
cost estimates were based on feasibility reports, preliminary engineering design and unit-rate
comparators and were expressed in mid-1996 prices and converted at the rate of 1,580
Lebanese Pounds (LL) to the US Dollar. Physical contingencies were based on status of
project preparation for various components and accuracy of available data. Price contingencies
were applied according to projected local and foreign annual inflation rates over the
implementation period in accordance with IBRD guidelines
9.       The Bank loan of JPY 6 billion (US$53.1 million equivalent) would finance about
17 percent of the total project costs, net of duties and taxes, and would meet about 22 percent
of the foreign-cost requirements. The financing plan (in US$ equivalent) was as follows:



3
Percentage of
Funding Agency    Local Costs   Foreign Costs      Total           Funding
IBRD                    3.2           49.9           53.1              17.2
EIB                    14.1           47.9           62.0              20.1
OECF (Japan)           27.5           96.4           123.9             40.2
European Union /I       2.1           15.0           17.1              5.6
Government             38.9           13.0           51.9              16.9
TOTAL             85.8          222.2          308.0             100.0
1/ ECU 2.53 million (about US$3.2 million equivalent) had been secured with remaining
amount proposed to be negotiated at a later date. If this would not materialize, remaining
amount would be covered through a loan or Govemment contributions.
10.     Components to be financed by the Government and other financing agencies, through
parallel financing, are summarized below:
(a)  Government would finance: (i) consultant services for engineering and
construction supervision for Kesrouan water supply and for the wastewater
project components; (ii) land acquisition; (iii) costs under contracts that
cannot entirely be financed by the financing agencies; and (iv) operational
costs for implementation of the environmental monitoring plan.
(b)  World Bank would finance: (i) the Nabatiye water supply and wastewater
components; (ii) the submarine outfall mains for Kesrouan and Sour; (iii)
operation, maintenance and training services contract(s) including provision of
auditors; (iv) office facilities and operation and maintenance equipment for the
five regional authorities/companies and for the implementation of the
environmental monitoring plan; (v) an institutional specialist under sector
reforms; and (vi) consultant services for Nabatiye water supply and wastewater
(construction supervision) and for the preparation of an environmental
monitoring plan;
(c)  EIB would finance the Kesrouan and Sour wastewater components, except the
submarine outfall mains;
(d)  OECF (Japan) would finance: (i) the Kesrouan water supply component; and
(ii) the Saida wastewater component, including the submarine outfall main; and



4
(e)  EU would finance under sector reforms and project management: (i) consultant
services; (ii) implementation of management contracts and technical assistance
packages; and (iii) extension of the water Sector Implementation Unit contract,
or its successor, to be included under a separate grant (with ECU 4.25 million
proposed to be allocated for the SIU), which was being negotiated.
Arrangements for financing of (ii) would be negotiated at the conclusion of
consultant services under (i).
Loan Signing and Effectiveness
11.   The Project was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on February 18, 1997, and
signed on September 12, 1997. The original terminal date for effectiveness of December 12,
1997 was extended three times -- to April 12, 1998; June 26, 1998; and August 1, 1998,
respectively -- on the assurance at the highest levels of Government that ratification was
forthcoming.
12.   On August 1, 1998, the Government requested a fourth extension of effectiveness date.
The elapsed time from Board approval was about 18 months and the Bank could not extend any
further the date for Loan effectiveness and the Loan was allowed to lapse on August 3, 1998.
Reasons for Termination
13.   Since the Government was unable to provide, in the absence of Parliamentary ratification,
the requisite legal opinion with respect to the Project's legal documents, the Loan Agreement and
the Project Agreement between the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) and the
Bank, dated September 12, 1997, were terminated effective August 3, 1998.
Subsequent Development
14.   Subsequent development can be summarized as follows:
(a) The following project components - - extension of water supply facilities in Kesrouan
and wastewater collection and disposal systems in Saida - - are being implemented
under Japanese financing, OECF;
(b) The EIB loan was also terminated, since its proposed financing of wastewater
collection systems for Kesrouan and Sour was directly linked to proposed World
Bank financing of related submarine outfall mains;
(c) CDR is presently considering financing assistance for the extension of wastewater
collection and disposal facilities for Sour;
(d) Portions of what was proposed to be covered under extension of water supply and
wastewater collection and disposal facilities for Nabatiye have been or are being
included under other arrangements;
(e) Operation and maintenance of mechanical and electrical equipment installed or
rehabilitated under the NERP remain an issue, and there are indications on further
deterioration; and
(f) Proposed sector development with the establishment of regional water supply and
sanitation companies was aborted, but there now seems to be a renewed Government
commitment to proceed with required legislation and subsequent implementation.



5
Although the Bank loan was never declared effective, efforts and investments made under project
preparation were not wasted. Portions of the project are under execution, and remaining portions
could be expected to follow.
Lessons Learned
15.    Lessons learned would be:
(a) For parallel financing, self-standing project components should be identified, which
was the case under Japanese financing (OECF). Regarding World Bank and EIB, the
project components proposed for financing were inter linked implying that neither
one could proceed on its own;
(b) The site for the wastewater treatment works for Kesrouan turned out to be
controversial, although it was evaluated as the most feasible one. This has also been
confirmed in a subsequent investigation that has been carried out. However, this
.would indicate that sufficient involvement of stakeholders did not take place at an
early stage; and
(c) Although sufficient Government commitment on sector reforms seemed to be there,
subsequent opposition proved otherwise. In a situation where sector reforms were a
prerequisite for ensuring satisfactory operation and maintenance of facilities built or
to be built, the passing of relevant legislation should have taken place before Board
presentation.
January 31, 2001



