/'  F     /1        7  6-    -  X g 
Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15035 LE
STAFF APPRAISAI, REPORT
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJEC-
January 22, 1997
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department 11
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December, 1996)
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound (LL) and Japanese Yen (JPY)
US$1.0  =    LL 1,580
US$1.0  =    JPY 113
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)        =         3.281 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)    =     0.621 miles (mi)
I metric ton (mt)    =           2204 lbs
I hectare (ha)                 I10,000 m2
=2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
CDR              Council for Development and Reconstruction
EA          =    Environmental Assessment
EIB         =    European Investment Bank
ERRP        =    Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
EU          =    European Union
FRC         =    Finance Regulatory Commission
GOL         =    Government of Lebanon
IBRD        =    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         =    International Competitive Bidding
JPY         =    Japanese Yen
KfW         =    Kreditanstalt fur Weideraufbau (Germnany)
LL          =    Lebanese Pound
LRAIC       =    Long Run Average Incremental Cost
MAP         =    Mediterranean Action Plan
MHER        =    Ministry of Hydraulics and Electric Resources
MOE              Ministry of Environment
NERP        =    National Emergency Reconstruction Program
NWRA        =    National Water Resources Authority
OECF        =    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
O&M         =    Operation and Maintenance
RWSC        =    Regional Water and Sanitation Companies
RWSIC       =    Regional Water, Sanitation and Irrigation Companies
SA          =    Special Account
SIU         =    Sector Implementation Unit
SOE         =    Statement of Expenditures
UNDP        =    United Nations Development Programme
UNEP             United Nations Environment Programme
WHO         =    World Health Organization
Vice President:              Kemal Dervis
Director:                    Inder K. Sud
Division Chief:              Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Manager:                Lars Rasmusson
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary ........................................................................i
1. BACKGROUND                                      .I
II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR .                        .                  I
A. Sector Issues and Constraints.                                                 I
B. Institutional Structure                        .I
C. Sector Investment Program                        .2
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement.                                                2
III. THE PROJECT                                  ..3
A. Development Program                            .3
B. Project Objectives                           .3
C. Project Description                          .3
D. Project Costs and Financing.                                                   5
IV. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS                    ..                                  6
A. Procurement                                .6
B. Disbursements                              .7
C. Project Implementation                         .8
D. Project Management and Monitoring.                                             9
E. Project Supervision                           .9
F. Accounts, Audits and Reports .10
G. Environmental Assessment .10
V. SECTOR RESTRUCTURING    ..11
A. Sector Development Policy                       .II
B. Implementation of Sector Reforms .11
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS    .                        .12
A. Past and Present Performance .12
B. Tariffs/Cost Recovery .13
C. Future Financial Outlook .13
D. CostlBenefit Analysis .13
E. Affordability .14
F. Risks .14
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..................................................................   15



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
Annex I   -        Project Description
Annex 2    -       Cost Estimates
Annex 3    -       Financing Plan
Annex 4    -       Procurement Arrangements
Annex 5    -       Disbursements
Annex 6    -       Implementation Schedule
Annex 7    -       Monitoring Indicators
Annex 8    -       Environmental Assessment
Annex 9    -       Sector Reforms
Annex 10  -        Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 11  -        Selected Documents in the Project File
Map No. IBRD 27466R
This report has been revised and updated by Messrs. Lars Rasmusson and Suhail Jme'an (MN2PI) and is based on earlier drafts
and the findings of an appraisal mission, which visited Lebanon in July, 1995. The mission comprised Messrs. Douglas Graham,
Senior Financial Analyst/Mission Leader (MN2PI); Lars Rasmusson, Principal Municipal Engineer (MN2PI); Vincent Gouarne,
Principal Urban Finance Specialist (EMTIE); Jamal Saghir, Senior Private Sector Specialist (MN2PI); Tribhuwan Narain,
Operations Officer (MN2PI); Allan Rotman, Environmental Specialist (EMTEN); Mines. Terri North-Wells, Tuyet Chuppe,
Blanche Williams (Senior Staff Assistants, MN2PI) were responsible for coordinating report production. Messrs. Alastair J.
McKechnie and Inder Sud are the Division Chief and Director, respectively. The Regional Vice President is Mr. Kemal Dervis.



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Lebanese Republic.
Implementing Agencies:   Council for Development and Reconstruction; Ministry of Hydraulics and
Electric Resources.
Beneficiaries:           Directly the population in the sub-project areas of Kesrouan, Saida, Sour
and Nabatiye and indirectly the total population of Lebanon through
proposed sector reforms.
Amount:                  For a single currency loan - Japanese Yen (JPY) 6 billion.
Terms:                   Seventeen years including five-year grace period at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based Japanese Yen single currency loans.
Financing Plan:
l.ocal|  Foreign       Total
.Funding Agency         (US$ million cquvalent)
IBRD                    3.2        49.9        53.1
Cofinanciers           43.7       159.3       203.0
Government             38.9        13.0        51.9
Total                  85.8       222.2       308.0
Commitment Fee:          0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Project Objectives:      (i) To improve sanitary and environmental conditions in three major urban
areas of the coastal zone covering a population of about 0.7 million; (ii) to
improve and extend water supply and wastewater collection and disposal
services in selected areas; (iii) to reduce groundwater and surface water
pollution; (iv) to restore the recreational use of bathing beaches; (v) to
ensure satisfactory operation and maintenance of equipment installed or
rehabilitated under the National Emergency Reconstruction Program
(NERP); and (vi) to improve service delivery through sector restructuring.



ii                                                                            Project summary
Project Description:       The project consists of: (i) extension of water supply facilities in Kesrouan
and Nabatiye sub-project areas and of wastewater collection and disposal
systems in Kesrouan, Saida, Sour and Nabatiye sub-project areas; (ii)
operation, maintenance and training services contract(s) nation-wide; (iii)
operation and maintenance equipment for five regional water authorities,
or successor regional water and sanitation companies, and for
environmental monitoring; (iv) consultant services, technical assistance
and management contracts for the establishment, development and
operation of sector institutions; and (v) consultant services for project
management, engineering, construction supervision, environmental
monitoring, and performance auditing.
Benefits:                  The project will reduce existing wastewater pollution and restore beaches
for recreational use; improve environmental and health conditions; and
help protect water resources and provide safe drinking water. It will assist
in restructuring the sector by combining the services of water supply with
wastewater collection and disposal into regional authorities, or successor
companies. These authorities/companies, to be operated on a commercial
basis, will ensure improved quality of services. The project will also
ensure satisfactory operation and maintenance of equipment installed or
rehabilitated under the ongoing NERP.
Risks:                     The project faces two major risks in addition to potential political
instability in the region. The establishment of regional companies, which
depends on legislative action, could be delayed and thus affect needed
improvements in operational performance. Political pressure regarding
tariff adjustments could impede regional authorities/companies from
becoming financially viable. However, taking into account that there is
an urgent need to reduce pollution and provide basic water supply and
sanitation services, and that the Government is fully committed to
restructure the sector to ensure service quality and financial viability, the
risks are considered acceptable. Furthermore, to reduce direct political
influence on tariffs, institutional reforms supported by the project include
the establishment of the FRC for tariff review and approval.
Poverty Category:          The project is not part of a core poverty program but will include areas
where poverty is acute.  It will have a beneficial impact on poor
households, which are sometimes forced to purchase water from vendors
at relatively high prices. Improved water quality and sanitation will have a
positive impact on reduction of water-related diseases, which mostly affect
the poor.
Economic Rate of Return:  Estimated for water supply components only. It is 15 percent for both
Kesrouan and Nabatiye sub-project areas.
Map No.:                   IBRD 27466R
Project Identification No.:  5342



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.1    Lebanon, which had been a prosperous middle-income country in the mid 1970s, is only now
beginning to recover from the devastation caused by 15 years of violent civil strife and military
occupation. Extensive damage to physical assets occurred, both as a direct result of the war, as well as
through the accumulated effects of disruption in capital investment and maintenance.
1.2    The impact of the civil war on social conditions was equally grave. The loss of human resources
was considerable; apart from the tragic loss of life and the disabling of hundreds of thousands of people,
about 200,000 professional and skilled Lebanese sought employment in other countries. While this
resulted in major shortages of skilled workers in various sectors of the economy, unemployment
nevertheless is estimated to amount to 35 percent of the resident labor force, and is believed to be
particularly high among urban youth. Nearly one quarter of the population of 3.6 million was displaced
to live in unhealthy shanty towns and in semi-destroyed and vacated buildings in conditions of severe
overcrowding. Public and social services were either non-existent or of poor quality, with only about
one-third of power capacity operating, water treatment was inadequate as well as wastewater collection
and disposal systems and most schools and hospitals were damaged.
1.3   To redress this situation, the Government embarked upon a National Emergency Reconstruction
Program (NERP), which envisaged investments amounting to US$2.1 billion. Nearly three-quarters of
this program is in the infrastructure sectors. The Government accords these sectors a high priority in
order to provide a clean and healthy environment for Lebanon's inhabitants and to attract business and
tourism, which are essential to the country's economic growth.
II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. Sector Issues and Constraints
2.1    Despite the country's comparative richness in water resources in a region of great water scarcity,
the water supply and sanitation sector is in disarray and unable to provide adequate services to the
majority of the population. Approximately half of all water produced is unaccounted-for because of
losses and billing deficiencies, while leaking or overflowing wastewater collection systems contaminate
water sources and water distribution networks. The division of responsibilities between water supply and
wastewater affects operational efficiency and prevents joint planning and prioritization of investments.
There is a lack of financial resources at every level, resulting from inadequate cost recovery, and of clear
and transparent regulatory arrangements. The service deficiencies result both from the years of turmoil
and neglect of infrastructure operation and maintenance and from more fundamental structural problems
in the sector.
B. Institutional Structure
2.2    The current allocation of responsibilities for water supply and wastewater is fragmented. While
the Ministry of Hydraulics and Electric Resources (MHER) has primary responsibility for water
resources and potable water supply, the Ministry of Agriculture is involved in the construction of



2                                             Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project
irrigation systems, and the Litani River Authority is responsible for the planning, implementation and
operation of all water uses in the Litani River water basin. There are 20 regional water boards and 200
local water committees responsible for irrigation and/or water supply operation and maintenance.
Recently, MHER started the consolidation of the water boards and local committees into larger entities.
2.3    Responsibility for wastewater lies, in principle, with the municipalities, assisted by their
sponsoring ministry, the Ministry of Municipalities and Rural Affairs. In practice, the municipalities
have retained responsibility only for operation and maintenance, while for investments they depend on
several ministries. The construction of wastewater collection systems has been mainly handled by the
Ministry of Housing and Cooperatives, but is now the responsibility of MHER. The Ministry of
Environment (MOE) is responsible for regulating the environmental impacts of waste disposal and the
Ministry of Public Health for setting and monitoring the quality of water supplies and the public health
aspects of waste disposal practices. The Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) is
responsible for economic and physical planning for the Government and for the coordination of projects
with donor financing. The Sector Implementation Units (SIUs) in the MHER and MOE, which were
established under the ERRP, are staffed by consultants responsible for project management. The SIUs
report to their respective ministries and coordinate with the CDR. The Government's plans for sector
restructuring include the merging of responsibilities for water supply and wastewater and a consolidation
of the number of operating units with the initial creation of regional water authorities, which
subsequently would be converted into regional water and sanitation companies.
C. Sector Investment Program
2.4    The sector investment program under the NERP envisages overall investments in the range of
US$1.0 billion over the next ten years for rehabilitation and extension of water supply and wastewater
collection and disposal facilities. The emphasis is on wastewater collection and disposal due to past
neglect and the need to reach a satisfactory level of service to improve public health and attract business
and tourism. The first three years of the program have been devoted mainly to rehabilitation of existing
works, with funding provided by the Bank, the European Investment Bank (EIB), the Arab Fund, the
Saudi Fund, the Kuwait Fund, Germany (KfW) and France. In Greater Beirut, KfW is funding the
rehabilitation of the southern wastewater disposal works at Ghadir, while construction/rehabilitation of
the northern wastewater disposal works at Dora is being considered for funding through private
investments. Rehabilitation and extension of Tripoli's wastewater collection and disposal system is
expected to be funded by the EIB. The project will cover the priority wastewater collection and disposal
systems in the remaining major coastal population centers of Kesrouan, Saida and Sour.
2.5    Future projects are expected to be increasingly undertaken by the private sector, once the
framework for sector reforms and private sector participation has been established. The Bisri dam and
Awali Conveyor (for Greater Beirut water supply) are two major projects likely to attract the private
sector, as are works required for improved wastewater treatment for coastal discharge.
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.6    The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by the Board on June
30, 1994, which focuses on the rehabilitation of infrastructure, including addressing environmental
concerns, and the increasing role of the private sector in the provision of public services. The project
assists the Government in the transition from emergency reconstruction to investment that supports
increasing economic prosperity and the establishment of institutions to lead the sector into the next
century. In March 1993, Bank activity resumed in Lebanon with the approval of a loan of US$175
million for the Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP), which financed high
priority components of the NERP in the fields of power, water supply and wastewater, solid waste,



Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project                                        3
education and telecommunications. Implementation is proceeding well, after some initial delays. A
Supplementary Loan of US$50 million to the ERRP, which also includes funding for repair of water
supply, wastewater and power facilities damaged during the April 1996 hostilities, was approved by the
Board on May 30, 1996. Bank involvement in this project will help implement the sector restructuring
initiated under the ERRP and promote effective private sector participation. It will help ensure the
attainment of the sector objectives, particularly cost recovery, and enhanced accountability. The Bank is
in a unique position to assist because of its experience in the sector and its ability to attract support from
other donors.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Development Program
3.1    Damage Assessment Reports prepared for the NERP have served as background documentation
for the preparation of feasibility and engineering studies for rehabilitation and a first-phase extension of
water supply and wastewater facilities throughout the country. In 1994, a previously prepared sanitation
master plan was updated, which resulted in the Lebanon's Staged Wastewater Program. The program
provides, on a national basis, an analysis of present sanitary conditions, future requirements and
investment priorities. This, in conjunction with a Water Resources Development Program, scheduled for
preparation during 1997, will set the stage for major investments to be made in the water supply and
wastewater sector. Studies have shown that environmental conditions along the coast are in comparison
more severe than for the inland areas, and priorities have been determined accordingly.
B. Project Objectives
3.2    The objectives of the project are to: (i) improve sanitary and environmental conditions in three
major urban areas of the coastal zone covering a population of about 0.7 million; (ii) extend water supply
and wastewater services in selected areas; (iii) reduce groundwater and surface water pollution; (iv)
reduce the pollution in the sea to restore beaches for recreational use; (v) ensure satisfactory operation
and maintenance of equipment installed or rehabilitated under the NERP; and (vi) restructure the sector
to achieve improved services through commercial operation and increased private sector participation.
C. Project Description
3.3    The project consists of the following major components:
(a)    extension and rehabilitation of water supply facilities in the Kesrouan and Nabatiye sub-
project areas and wastewater collection and disposal systems in the Kesrouan, Saida,
Sour and Nabatiye sub-project areas;
(b)    operation, maintenance and training services contract(s), country-wide, for mechanical
and electrical equipment installed or rehabilitated under the NERP, including
procurement of consumables and spare parts;
(c)    operation and maintenance equipment and office facilities for the five regional water
authorities or successor regional water and sanitation companies (paras. 5.2(d) and 5.3),
and operational equipment for environmental monitoring; and
For Sour and Saida the water supply services will be improved and extended concurrently with this project
with financing, to an amount of US$35 million equivalent, provided by the Arab Fund.



4                                                Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project
(d)    consultant services and technical assistance for: the establishment and development of
sector institutions at national and regional levels, including management contracts;
environmental monitoring; project management; and engineering, construction
supervision and auditing for performance review.
3.4    The water supply components include extension and rehabilitation of water sources and
treatment works, transmission mains, storage reservoirs, pumping stations and distribution mains. The
wastewater components include extension and rehabilitation of networks, interceptors and trunk mains,
pumping stations and treatment works, and submarine outfall mains. Details of the water supply and
wastewater components are described in Annex 1.
3.5    The design standard for proposed wastewater treatment works and outfall mains is based on the
Mediterranean Action Plan (MAP) for the protection and development of the Mediterranean Basin.2 The
objective adopted by the Mediterranean countries is the provision of secondary treatment in all coastal
cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants and of preliminary or primary treatment in all towns with more
than 10,000 inhabitants. Under the project it is proposed, with the exception of Sour, to provide in a first
phase for preliminary treatment with the outfall mains to be designed to satisfy the adopted standard on
faecal coliform pollution. In a subsequent phase, secondary treatment will be added, for which the
timing will be subject to the results from proposed environmental monitoring. In Sour, it was proved to
be feasible to initially provide for secondary treatment and also to use the treated effluents for irrigation.
In each sub-project area, an analysis of alternatives was carried out and selected project components
represent least cost solutions. Industrial effluents should be pre-treated where required, and satisfactory
arrangements should be made for the servicing of septic tanks. During negotiations, assurances were
given by the Gevemment that rules preventing the discharge into the public wastewater collection
systems of industrial effluents containing toxic/harmful substances, as identified in the "Land Based
Sources Protocol",3 will be enforced from January 1, 2000.
3.6    Operation, maintenance (O&M) and training services contract(s), covering the whole of
Lebanon, with a duration of three years will be entered into for mechanical and electrical equipment
installed or rehabilitated under the NERP. These contracts, which will also include training of existing
and new O&M staff, would, at a later date, be incorporated under the management structure and work
program of the five regional water authorities, or successor regional water and sanitation companies. To
facilitate the establishment of the regional authorities/companies the project will include operation and
maintenance equipment and office facilities to be specified after an assessment has been made of the
requirements, which is scheduled for early- 1997.
3.7    The project component on sector reforms (para. 5.4) will include the provision of:  (i) an
institutional specialist to manage the implementation of sector reforms; (ii) consultant services for the
preparation of requests for proposals for management contracts and technical assistance and for studies
to determine organizational and staffing structures, systems, procedures and by-laws; and (iii)
implementation of management and technical assistance contracts.
2      Adopted in 1975 by the sixteen states bordering the Mediterranean Sea including Lebanon. The legal
framework for the MAP was determined at a conference in Barcelona in 1976 with additional protocols
adopted in Athens, 1980, and Geneva, 1982. The signatories of the MAP have adopted the WHO/UNEP
Faecal Coliforn standard for recreational water suitable for bathing.
"Land Based Sources Protocol" means the Protocol for the Mediterranean Sea against Pollution from Land
Based Sources, dated June 17, 1983, to the Convention for the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against
Pollution, known as the Barcelona Convention, dated February 12, 1978.



Coastal Pollulion Control and Water Supply Project                                      S
3.8    Consultant services for engineering and construction supervision will cover: (i) the water supply
components for Kesrouan and Nabatiye; and (ii) the wastewater components, including oceanographic
surveys, for Kesrouan, Saida and Sour. Ongoing consultant contracts cover engineering only, but should
be extended, in due course, to include construction supervision. The contract for the SIU, or its
successor, which is currently responsible for project management, should be extended as required.
D. Project Costs and Financing
3.9    Total project costs including physical and price contingencies are estimated at US$308 million,
of which 72 percent, or US$222 million, are in foreign exchange. The cost estimates are based on
feasibility reports, preliminary engineering design and recent unit-rate comparators and are expressed in
mid-1996 prices and converted at the rate of 1,580 Lebanese Pounds (LL) to the US Dollar. Physical
contingencies are based on status of project preparation for various components and accuracy of
available data. Price contingencies have been applied according to projected local and foreign annual
inflation rates over the implementation period in accordance with IBRD guidelines. Detailed cost
breakdowns are shown in Annex 2.
3.10   The proposed Bank loan of JPY 6 billion (US$53.1 million equivalent) would finance about 17
percent of the total project costs, net of duties and taxes, and would meet about 22 percent of the foreign-
cost requirements. The proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 3.1 with details shown in
Annex 3.
Table 3.1: Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
L.ocal    I oreign| Perccitage of
1-Funding Agency    C(sts      Costs      T'otat      Fulnding
IBRD                   3.2       49.9        53.1       17.2
EIB                   14.1       47.9        62.0       20.1
OECF (Japan)         27.5        96.4       123.9       40.2
European Union 4       2.1       15.0        17.1        5.6
Government            38.9       13.0        51.9       16.9
TOTAL           85.8       222.2      308.0       100.0
3.11   Components to be financed by the Government and other financing agencies, through parallel
financing, are summarized below:
(a)   the Government would finance: (i) consultant services for engineering and construction
supervision for Kesrouan water supply and for the wastewater project components; (ii)
land acquisition; (iii) costs under contracts that cannot entirely be financed by the
financing agencies; and (iv) operational costs for implementation of the environmental
monitoring plan.
ECU 2.53 million (about US$3.2 million equivalent) has been secured with remaining amount proposed to
be negotiated at a later date. If this will not materialize, remaining amount will be covered through a loan
or Government contributions.



6                                            Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project
(b)   the World Bank would finance:  (i) the Nabatiye water supply and wastewater
components; (ii) the submarine outfall mains for Kesrouan and Sour; (iii) operation,
maintenance and training services contract(s) including provision of auditors; (iv) office
facilities and operation and maintenance equipment for the five regional
authorities/companies and for the implementation of the environmental monitoring plan;
(v) an institutional specialist under sectbr reforms; and (vi) consultant services for
Nabatiye water supply and wastewater (construction supervision) and for the preparation
of an environmental monitoring plan;
(c)   the EIB would finance the Kesrouan  and Sour wastewater components, except the
submarine outfall mains;
(d)   the OECF (Japan) would finance: (i) the Kesrouan water supply component; and (ii) the
Saida wastewater component, including the submarine outfall main; and
(e)   the EU would finance under sector reforms and project management: (i) consultant
services; (ii) implementation of management contracts and technical assistance
packages; and (iii) extension of the SIU contract, or its successor, to be included under a
separate grant (with ECU 4.25 million proposed to be allocated for the SIU), which is
being negotiated.  Arrangements for financing of (ii) would be negotiated at the
conclusion of consultant services under (i).
3.12   For the IBRD-financed project components, retroactive financing corresponding to 5 percent of
the loan amount, or JPY 294 million, is proposed for payments made after December 1, 1996 and prior to
loan signing. Such payments would particularly apply to the Nabatiye water supply and wastewater
component, which is in an advance stage of preparation.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Procurement
4.1   Procurement will follow the same procedures that were established under the ERRP, with CDR
as the responsible agency, supported by the SIU in MHER. For project components to be financed by
IBRD, the following number of contracts are envisaged: (i) one contract for the Nabatiye water supply
and wastewater components; (ii) one contract for each of the two submarine outfall mains, unless it
proves to be feasible to combine them under one contract; (iii) one or possibly two contracts for
operation, maintenance and training services; (iv) about 10 contracts for office facilities, operation and
maintenance equipment for the regional companies and operational equipment for environmental
monitoring; and (v) one contract for an institutional specialist. All goods, works and services should be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans, published in January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency published in August 1981.



Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project                                      7
4.2    Specific procurement arrangements are:
(a)    civil works contracts, which will be prequalified, will be in the range of US$3 to 15
million and should be awarded following international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures;
(b)    all contracts for equipment and materials exceeding US$500,000 will be awarded using
ICB procedures. Contracts for equipment and materials, not exceeding US$500,000
each, can be procured through international shopping based on three quotations from at
least two countries. Contracts for equipment and materials, not exceeding US$100,000
each, can be procured through local shopping based on three quotations. The total
aggregate value for such contracts will not exceed US$4.0 million and US$1.0 million
for international and local shopping, respectively.
(c)    contract(s) for operation, maintenance and training services, which would be in the range
of US$10 to 20 million, will be awarded based on invitation of proposals from a short
list of qualified firms.
Prior review will include all contracts for works and goods with a value exceeding US$500,000, and for
consulting services with a value exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals.
Details of procurement methods and arrangements are shown in Annex 4.
B. Disbursements
4.3    Disbursements are expected to begin in the last quarter of calendar year 1997 and be completed
before the project's proposed closing date, June 30, 2002. The loan proceeds would be disbursed against
eligible expenditures from the main categories as shown in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Loan Disbursements Categories
Amount
Categorv             (J}V      Percentage of expenditures to be financed
. ............... ..............m il4i0n )  __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _
I .   Civil Works             3,277  85 % of expenditures
(excluding cost of land)
2.   Goods                      532  100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
3.   Consultants' services      260  100% of expenditures
4.   O&M and Training          1,243  50% of expenditures
Services
5.   Unallocated                688
TOTAL                 6,000
Disbursements would be fully documented, except for disbursements against contracts for works and
goods valued below US$500,000, for consulting firms valued below US$100,000 and for individual
consultants valued below US$50,000, for which the supporting documentation would be retained for



8                                           Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project
review by Bank supervision missions. For contracts to be financed by the EIB, OECF and the EU,
disbursements will be made against 100 percent of contract costs unless otherwise agreed.
4.4    Given the long interruption in lending to Lebanon, there is no disbursement profile for the
country. However, available indicators from ongoing projects show that, once contracts have been
awarded, they are usually completed on time. Project preparation is proceeding well with tendering
expected to take place as planned, and the schedule of disbursements, as shown in Annex 5, has been
estimated accordingly.
4.5    To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish in the
Central Bank a Special Account (SA) operated by CDR under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make authorized allocation of US$3.5 million in the SA of the
CDR. Initially, the allocation would be limited to US$1.5 million. The full authorized allocation could
be claimed when disbursements reach JPY227 million.  The CDR would submit replenishment
applications for the SA on a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent of the initial deposit has been
utilized, whichever occurs first. The replenishment applications would be supported by the necessary
documentation, bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against Bank
records. The minimum amount for applications for direct payment and for special commitment would be
20 percent of the authorized allocation to the SA.
C. Project Implementation
4.6   Feasibility reports for water supply and wastewater for each of the sub-project areas have been
prepared by consulting firms and are available in the Project File. Preparation of engineering designs
and tender documents are underway, which includes an inventory of industrial effluents with an analysis
of the need for on-site pretreatment. Land acquisition will be required for sites for pumping stations,
storage tanks, and the three wastewater treatment works, with the one in Sour involving resettlement of
12 persons. The process of land acquisition has commenced and a resettlement plan has been agreed to.
During negotiations, assurances were given by CDR that all land will be available and the resettlement
for the Sour treatment site will be completed before December 31, 1997. This would ensure that land
acquisition and resettlement will take place before construction works are scheduled to start.
4.7    The project would be implemented over about four years with completion to take place before
December 31, 2001. A project implementation schedule is shown on Annex 6, with key highlights
summarized below:
(a)    Water supply components: Contracts for Nabatiye are expected to be completed by
mid -1999, and for Kesrouan by mid-2000. The extension of water supply facilities in
Sour and Saida under Arab Fund financing would follow about the same schedule.
Improved water supply services in the four sub-project areas will therefore be available
by mid-2000.
(b)    Wastewater collection and disposal components: The oceanographic surveys will be
carried out over a year-long period during 1996/97. The completion of interceptors,
trunk mains and treatment works, which are on the critical path, is scheduled for mid-
2000. The sub-marine outfall mains will also completed by mid-2000 to enable a
commissioning of total systems.
(c)    Operation, maintenance and training services contract(s): The contract(s), as well as
the appointment of auditors for performance review, are urgently required and are
scheduled to be awarded by end-1997 to be completed by end-2000, at which time



Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project                                        9
relevant functions will be taken over and performed by the regional
authorities/companies.
(d)    Operational and maintenance equipment with provision of office facilities for the
regional companies: Based on an assessment of the requirements to be completed by
early-1997, procurement is scheduled to take place during 1997/98 to coincide with the
proposed consolidation of the regional authorities/companies.
(e)    Sector reforms: The institutional specialist is scheduled to be appointed by mid-1997,
for a three-year assignment, with the possibility of extension.  The contracts for
consultant services for phase 2 (para. 5.4) should be awarded before end-1997 for
completion during 1999.  The management and technical assistance contracts for
national and regional sector entities would be awarded during 1999 for a three years'
duration.
(f)    Consultancies for construction  supervision:   Consulting firms appointed for
engineering design and preparation of tender specifications are expected to be retained
for construction supervision.
The implementation schedule reflects an integrated approach to the provision of physical assets/new
facilities, satisfactory operation and maintenance of existing electrical and mechanical equipment, and
the establishment of a sector organization adequate for the requirements. The commissioning of most of
the physical works would take place during 2000, while the implementation of sector reforms will be
more gradual, with the completion of phase 3 (para. 5.4) stretching beyond the project's proposed closing
date.
D. Project Management and Monitoring
4.8    The project management and monitoring systems established for the ongoing ERRP will
basically be maintained. The SIU, or its successor, will continue to perform the project management
function, directly reporting to the MHER and coordinating with the CDR, which will act as overall
coordinator and planner, including specific functions on procurement and disbursements such as entering
into contracts and effecting payments. The contractor(s) for the provision of operation, maintenance and
training services will report directly to the Director General for Operations of the MHER, who will
appoint an auditor (a local firm) for review and supervision of the contractors' performance. The
institutional specialist will manage the process of sector reforms and report to a Steering Committee
chaired by the Minister of MHER. Specific functions to be performed by the SIU, or its successor, refer
to: manage the consultant services on engineering and construction supervision; prepare tender
evaluation reports and make recommendations to award of contracts; and report on project progress. The
present SIU contract, financed by the EU, will expire by September 1997; it is proposed that the contract
be restructured and extended through 2001.  During negotiations, assurances were given by the
Govemment that it will extend the management contract as required for project execution.
4.9    A reporting system has been established with monthly progress reports to be prepared by the
consulting firms for submission to the SIU. The SIU, in turn, will report monthly to the CDR, which will
monitor overall progress. Based on this information, the SIU will prepare quarterly progress reports that
will also include performance monitoring indicators as shown in Annex 7. These indicators will initially
be established for the sub-project areas, and later extended to cover the areas of the South Lebanon and
Mount Lebanon regional companies. For the operation, maintenance and training services contract(s),
the MHER will prepare quarterly progress reports, for which specific monitoring indicators will be
established. The performance under these contract(s) will also be subject to review by auditors. The



10                                            Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project
institutional specialist will submit quarterly progress reports to the Steering Committee. The quarterly
progress reports, including performance indicators, should be submitted to the Bank for review. During
negotiations, assurances were given by CDR that (i) quarterly progress reports including performance
monitoring indicators will be submitted to the Bank for review within 30 days after the end of the
reporting period; and (ii) a mid-term project review will be carried out by no later than July 1, 1999.
E. Project Supervision
4.10   The project covers investments to be made in four different geographical areas, operation,
maintenance and training services contract(s) country-wide, and the establishment of five regional
authorities/companies and of national sector entities. This provides an overall approach to long-term
sector development in conjunction with priority investments in coastal water pollution control. In this
context, the requirements for Bank supervision will be significant, with, on average, three missions per
year with staff, as needed, specialized in engineering, financial analysis, operation/maintenance,
environmental matters, and institutional/privatization development. Given the growing number of
infrastructure projects in Lebanon and the opportunities to combine missions, the total cost of
supervision over the project implementation period is estimated at about US$300,000.
F. Accounts, Audits and Reports
4.11   CDR will keep separate accounts for project expenditures in accordance with accounting
principles and practices acceptable to the Bank. It will have ultimate responsibility for project budgeting
and accounting and will coordinate project activities executed by the various institutions concerned, as
well as consolidate the accounts. CDR will also prepare reimbursement requests and forward them to the
Bank. The regional authorities/companies will be subject to audit by independent auditors in accordance
with internationally accepted standards. These audits will be made available to the Bank. During
negotiations, assurances were given by CDR that: it will continue to have its accounts audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, who will, in addition to overall audit reports, prepare
and submit separate opinions on the accuracy and appropriateness of the project accounts, SOEs and SA;
annual audit reports for the South Lebanon and Beirut and Mount Lebanon regional water authorities, or
successor regional water and sanitation companies, will be prepared beginning with the year 1999; and
the annual audit reports and the report on project accounts will be submitted to the Bank within nine
months of the end of each fiscal year.
G. Environmental Assessment
4.12   The project has been placed in environmental screening category "A" consistent with
Operational Directive 4.01. Environmental Assessments (EAs) were prepared for the water supply and
wastewater facilities for each sub-project area. A public consultation meeting was held in Sour with
representatives from local municipalities, community associations, and social institutions. In Kesrouan,
Saida and Nabatiye, discussions have taken place with the owners and managers of large industries and
with municipal authorities. Information collected and opinions expressed were incorporated into the
project concept and proposed mitigation measures.
4.13   Mitigation measures common to each sub-project area, which are shown in Annex 8, address:
impacts relating to project design and the siting and routing of facilities; short-term impacts during
construction; and long-term impacts during operations. The environmental monitoring plan for each sub-
project area will cover: (i) physical oceanographic measurements; (ii) seawater chemical and
bacteriological analyses, including heavy metals and sediments; (iii) water quality for beaches for
recreational use close to the sea outfalls; and (iv) potential impact on fish, deep-sea organism and
shellfish in proximity to the sea outfalls. Monitoring will commence prior to construction of the sea



Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project                                   11
outfalls and continue during the periods of construction and subsequent operations. An analysis of the
results will then determine the timing for a later extension for secondary waste water treatment. The
monitoring will be coordinated with recommendations to be made under a Coastal Development Plan to
be prepared under the ongoing Solid Waste/Environmental Management Project (Loan 3899-LE). Water
quality at springs and groundwater aquifers will be monitored to ensure compliance with public health
standards. The SIU, or its successor, will manage the preparation of the environmental monitoring plan
and its initial implementation. During negotiations, assurances were given by CDR that an environmental
monitoring plan will be prepared before May 1, 1998; implementation will be agreed upon. The
principal institutions with environmental responsibilities for the water supply and wastewater sector will
be the MHER and MOE at the national level and the regional authorities/companies at the local level.
The MOE is presently supported by the UNDP for the development of a legal framework and
institutional capacity for monitoring and enforcement.
V. SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
A. Sector Development Policy
5.1    The Government has approved a water sector development policy that provides the framework
for proposed sector reforms as summarized in Annex 9. The sector reforms center on the establishment
of an institutional structure that will enable commercialization of the delivery of water supply and
wastewater services.  To implement the sector reforms, the Government is committed to: (a)
transforming existing institutions to enable them to independently manage sector activities and generate
the necessary financial resources; (b) making regional companies responsible for water supply and
wastewater services, which could also include irrigation, and providing them with the power to execute
projects and to enter into financial agreements; and (c) involving the private sector in operation and
maintenance through management contracts which, in a subsequent phase, could evolve into leasing or
concession contracts.
5.2   The sector policy, the legal requirements of which have been translated into a draft law,
proposes:
At the National Level:
(a)    A National Water Resources Authority (NWRA) will be created with responsibility for
strategic planning of water resources development and for allocation of water for
different uses. However, these functions will, initially, be performed by MHER; NWRA
will be established in a subsequent phase under the tutelage of MHER.
(b)    A Finance Regulatory Commission (FRC) will be established to regulate cost recovery
and tariffs.
(c)    The MHER will be strengthened to assume responsibility for policy, planning and
control functions, including the establishment and monitoring of service delivery and
technical standards.
At the Regional Level:
(d)    Three Regional Water, Sanitation and Irrigation Companies will be established for North
Lebanon, Beirut and Mount Lebanon and North Beka'a to assume responsibility for
delivery of water supply and wastewater services and for the delivery of water to
individual irrigation schemes managed by farmers' associations. Two Regional Water



12                                            Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project
and Sanitation Companies will be established for South Beka'a and South Lebanon,
while the Litani River Authority will remain responsible for irrigation in the Litani river
water basin and in South Lebanon.  The regional companies will be autonomous,
financially viable, publicly and/or privately-owned and subject to commercial law.
B. Implementation of Sector Reforms
5.3    The Government has, as an interim measure, proceeded with the establishment of five regional
water authorities, also to be responsible for the provision of wastewater services, through decrees that
have been approved and issued by the Council of Ministers. Once the draft law has been enacted, the
national entities can be established and the regional authorities will be converted into regional
companies. The draft law has been reviewed by the Bank and concluded to be satisfactory. This
arrangement will enable the immediate establishment of regional entities with the development of their
organizational and staffing structures as well as operational systems and procedures.  During
negotiations, assurances were given by the Government that the draft law will be introduced to the
Parliament before January 1, 1998.
5.4    The implementation of proposed sector reforms will be carried out under the following three
phases:
(a)    Phase 1 (1993-98) will be completed with the enactment of the draft law. It has
included a review of legislative and regulatory requirements, specific functions and
responsibilities and organizational structures and, as an interim measure, the
establishment of regional authorities.
(b)    Phase 2 (1997-1999) will include steps needed to enable the establishment and
development of the FRC and the regional companies, and the restructuring of the
MHER.
(c)    Phase 3 (1999-2002) will support the various sector entities in their start-up and initial
operation, which will include the provision of technical assistance, training and
management contracts.
5.5    To manage the implementation of sector reforms a Steering Committee, to be chaired by the
Minister of MHER, will be established with a secretariat to be headed by an institutional specialist.
Consultant services will be included under phase 2 and technical assistance/management contracts will
constitute phase 3. For activities under phase 3, an auditor should be appointed to be responsible for
performance review. The scope of technical assistance proposed under phase 2 and 3 is shown on Annex
9 with a schedule of implementation shown on Annex 6. Terms of reference for the institutional
specialist and consultant services are available in the project file.
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Past and Present Performance
6.1    After some 15 years of civil strife and military occupation the water supply and wastewater
infrastructure has been severely damaged, and it will take several years to restore the services to a
satisfactory standard. This, coupled with the extreme fragmentation of the sector, and the far-from-
universal provision of wastewater collection and disposal services by individual municipalities, makes it
impractical to satisfactorily assess the past and current financial performance of the sector.



Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project                                         13
6.2    One of the major benefits of the project will be the institutional and financial restructuring of the
sector. The merger of existing water entities and the transfer of wastewater collection and disposal to
proposed regional authorities will be phased over about a one-year period and will include, inter alia, the
revaluation of existing assets and liabilities and the determination of the share capital (opening balance
sheet) of each of the regional authorities/companies as of the time of their creation. At this stage, it is not
possible to prepare pro-forma financial statements for the consolidated accounts of any of the regional
authorities due to lack of operating data as well as the inadequacy of current levels of operation and
maintenance. However, it has been possible to gain a reasonable insight into the cost structure, tariff
requirement and affordability characteristics of the sub-project areas of Kesrouan, Saida, Sour and
Nabatiye. Annex 10 shows combined income, cash flow, and affordability statements for each of the
sub-project areas. Briefly, these statements span an eight-year period, of which the first five years cover
the project period. The approach entails: (i) the determination of investment, operation and maintenance
costs on the basis of sound engineering and management practices; (ii) the calculation of the debt service
associated with proposed and future investments to reflect financing arrangements; (iii) the phasing in of
a 20 percent self-financing factor; and (iv) the calculation of the revenues required to ensure the financial
viability of the systems. On this basis, but without accounting for any return on existing assets (which
are mostly fully written-off), the average costs of water and wastewater services per cubic meter of water
supplied are US$1.42 in Kesrouan, US$1.03 in Saida, US$0.96 in Sour and US$0.61 in Nabatiye.
B. Tariffs/Cost Recovery
6.3    The regional authorities/companies will operate as financially self-sufficient entities, with the
revenues to be determined by their operating efficiency as well as the level of their tariffs. It is the
Government's policy that the revenues of the regional authorities/companies will be sufficient to cover
operating and maintenance expenses and debt service and to generate enough additional cash to enable
them  to provide the necessary counterpart financing for future expansions.  While the regional
companies should be legally established through the enactment of the draft law, financial viability will
only be achieved gradually, with tariffs to be adjusted over time and in line with service improvements.
It is the intention of the Government to gradually increase the tariffs to achieve full cost recovery by no
later than January 1, 2001, in the sub-project areas.
6.4    Government policy is to complete metering of the water supply services. Wastewater costs,
which have been recovered indirectly through municipal revenues, will be recovered along with those of
water supply. Differential tariffs will ensure that water supply and wastewater services are affordable
and will consist of schedules based on water actually consumed, with a wastewater surcharge added to
water bills.
6.5    The law creating the regional companies will also create an FRC under the tutelage of the
Ministry of Finance, for the purpose of reviewing and approving the tariff requests to be prepared by the
regional companies. The FRC is proposed to consist of seven commissioners and a small secretariat. To
enhance the independence of the FRC and to ensure transparency, the commissioners will be chosen
from representatives of commerce, industry, consumers and government, and their decisions will be
published in local newspapers.
C. Future Financial Outlook
6.6    Since the regional authorities have yet to become functional, the financial projections and
assumptions made are only illustrative of what is likely to happen. While this process has been very
useful in throwing much needed light on the implications of the new structures, the projected statements
could not be used for future performance monitoring. The regional authorities/companies are expected
to prepare business plans and budgets, which will form the basis for monitoring their performance. This



14                                             Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project
would provide indicators on service coverage and quality, operational efficiency, cost recovery and
financial sustainability.
D. Cost/Benefit Analysis
6.7    The project will help to protect water resources and provide safe drinking water in the sub-
project areas. It will eliminate existing harmful wastewater pollution in major coastal cities and tourism
areas, and improve environmental and health conditions. It will assist in restructuring the sector, in
enabling satisfactory operation and maintenance through private-sector participation, thus improving the
quality of service, and in introducing financial viability through improved billing and collection, thus
limiting and ultimately eliminating contributions from the national budget.
6.8    Based on the incremental costs of water supply and the incremental water quantities made
available as a result of the project, estimates for the long run average incremental cost (LRAIC) (per
cubic meter) for each area using a 10 percent discount rate are summarized in Table 6.1, which also
shows similar estimates for wastewater.
Table 6.1: LRAIC of Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal
(US$ per cubic meter)
Sub-project Area   Water Supply    Wastewater    Total
Kesrouan                 0.99             0.37         1.36
Nabatiye                 0.99             0.09         1.08
6.9    Estimates for the economic rates of return for Kesrouan and Nabatiye sub-project areas are 15
percent based on the existing price paid of US$1.32 per cubic meter of water. A sensitivity analysis also
shows that the rates of return remain at a satisfactory level at variations in costs and benefits (Annex 1 0).
This analysis is limited to sub-project areas where additional water quantities are made available under
the project 5 and does not take into account benefits that cannot readily be quantified, such as improved
health and environmental conditions and their subsequent impact on the standard of living and economic
development, particularly in tourism. Including these benefits would result in higher rates of return than
the ones calculated above.
E. Affordability
6.10   The ultimate test of the costs for provided services is their affordability to the beneficiaries. The
combined costs for water supply and wastewater, after allowing for differentiation in a tariff structure
between commercial/industrial and household users, would amount to less than 5 percent of average
household incomes in the sub-project areas. This is considered acceptable.
F. Risks
6.11   The project faces two major risks in addition to potential political instability in the region. The
establishment of regional companies, which depends on legislative action, could be delayed and thus
affect needed improvements in operational performance. Political pressure regarding tariff adjustments
could impede regional authorities/companies from becoming financially viable. However, taking into
Saida and Sour sub-project areas have only wastewater components financed under this project.



Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project                                      15
account that there is an urgent need to reduce pollution and provide basic water supply and sanitation
services, and that the Government is fully committed to restructure the sector to ensure service quality
and financial viability, the risks are considered acceptable. Furthermore, to reduce direct political
influence on tariffs, institutional reforms supported by the project include the establishment of the FRC
for tariff review and approval.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    During negotiations, assurances were given that:
(a)   the Government will enforce rules preventing the discharge into the public wastewater
collection systems of industrial effluents containing toxic/harmful substances from
January 1, 2000, as identified in the Land Based Sources Protocol (para. 3.5);
(b)    CDR will ensure that all land will be available and the resettlement for the Sour
treatment site will be completed before December 31, 1997 (para. 4.6);
(c)   the Government will extend the management contract for SIU, or its successor, as
required for project execution (para. 4.8);
(d)    CDR will ensure that (i) quarterly progress reports, including a review of performance
indicators, will be submitted to the Bank for review within 30 days after the end of the
reporting period; and (ii) a mid-term review will be carried out before July 1, 1999
(para. 4.9);
(e)    CDR will continue to have its accounts audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, who will, in addition to overall audit reports, prepare and submit
separate opinions on the accuracy and appropriateness of the project accounts, SOEs and
SA; and CDR will ensure that annual audit reports for the South Lebanon and Beirut and
Mount Lebanon regional water authorities, or successor regional water and sanitation
companies, will be prepared beginning with the year 1999, and that the annual audit
reports and the report on project accounts will be submitted to the Bank within nine
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.1 1);
(f)    CDR will ensure that an environmental monitoring plan will be prepared before May 1,
1998, and implemented as to be agreed (para. 4.13); and
(g)   the Government will introduce to the Parliament before January 1, 1998 the agreed
draft law on sector reforms (para. 5.3).
7.2    The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of Japanese Yen 6 billion to the
Lebanese Republic with 17 years' maturity, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest rate for
LIBOR-based Japanese Yen single-currency loans.






Annex 1                                                                                   1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Description
1.    The project area covers Kesrouan, Saida, Sour and Nabatiye with surroundings (referred to as
sub-project areas) and is shown on Map No. IBRD 27466R. The characteristics of the sub-project areas
are:
(a)    The Kesrouan sub-project area is located about 20 kms north of Beirut and includes some
of the most densely populated parts of Lebanon. The area varies from heavily urbanized
along the sea coast to very lightly urbanized in the mountainous region, which is mainly
covered with natural forests. The area is one of the more developed in Lebanon and its
mountain villages and sea coast hotels and beaches are considered among the most
attractive summer resorts in the country.  The economy is based on tourism  and
manufacturing industries, entertainment facilities, and the commercial sector.
(b)    The Saida sub-project area is located between Sour and Beirut and covers a coastal strip
about 12 kms long and is bound by two rivers, Nahr Awali to the north and Nahr Zahrani to
the south. Saida is rich in historical landmarks. The coastal strip is mostly urbanized. The
Quasmieh irrigation canal crosses the area southward and supplies it with water. The
major economic activities, apart from the Zahrani oil refinery, are small and medium scale
enterprises, agriculture and fishing.
(c)    The Sour sub-project area is located on the southern coast of Lebanon, stretching
approximately 16 kms from east to west and 13 kms from north to south. It is a historical
area centered on the city of Sour (Tyre), once called the "Metropolis of Phoenicia." The
area, with its long sandy beaches, has a high potential for recreation and tourism. Industrial
activities are relatively insignificant with workshop factories operating on a small scale.
Most of the agricultural production emanates from the coastal strip with irrigated banana,
orange and lemon plantations. A major irrigation canal runs through the area as part of the
Quasmieh irrigation scheme, which is fed from the Litani river and the Ras El Ain springs.
(d)    The Nabatiye sub-project area is located between Sour and Saida and stretches from the
coast to the city of Nabatiye and covers approximately 17 kms from north to south and 20
kms from east to west. The land rises steeply from the narrow coastal plain to a rolling
plateau with incised valleys. This area, boarded by the Litani river from the south and east,
is mostly rural and is characterized by agricultural activities ranging from field crops to
orchards.



2                                                                                   Annex 1
2.     Present and projected population in the sub-project areas is:
L               l'opulation
Sub-project Area            1995          2005     I   2015    j
Kesrouan                        192,000        237,000       289,000
Saida                           162,000        197,000       215,000
Sour                            178,000        233,000       290,000
Nabatiye                         196,000       242,000       306,000
Total    728,000       909,000       1,100,000
Present rural population (in conglomerations of less than 10,000 people) in respective sub-project area
represents about: in Kesrouan 22 percent; in Saida 53 percent; in Sour 39 percent; and in Nabatiye 55
percent. The annual population growth rate has been assumed to about equal the national average of 2.18
percent. Present population in the sub-project areas corresponds to 20 - 25 percent of the total population in
Lebanon.
B. Present Water Supply and Wastewater Systems
3.     Present water supply situation in respective sub-project area is summarized as follows:
(a)    in Kesrouan: The distribution systems cover the total population in the sub-project area
with water provided from the following springs and groundwater sources: Madiq, Jiita,
Nabaa el Aassal, Afqa, and Nabaa Farah. Connections between the systems enable the
transfer of water between different areas in accordance with the seasonal yields of
respective water source.  Both the water production and distribution capacity are
inadequate for present water demand;
(b)    in Saida: The whole sub-project area is covered by a distribution system with water
supplied from springs and groundwater. The water supply is presently inadequate, but this
will improve with works being carried out under the National Emergency and
Rehabilitation Program (NERP);
(c)    in Sour: The public water supply systems cover 80 percent of the sub-project area, which
is divided into seven distribution zones. Area not covered is provided with water from
private wells or through tankers. There are four main water sources: Ras el Ain basins
(providing about 21,800 m 3/day), Er Rachidiye spring (about 6,000 m 3/day), Quadi Jilo
wells (about 10,000 m3 /day); and public and private wells (about 24,800 m /day). The
distribution systems are in poor conditions, there are no water meters and unaccounted for
water is estimated at 50 percent. The water supply is inadequate and there is a need for an
extension of both the production and the distribution capacity; and
(d)    in Nabatiye: The existing water supply system, which is divided into 9 subsystems serving
52 villages and extending over an area of some 340 km2, is centered on the urban area of
Nabatiye, and rural agglomerations north of the Litani River and south of the coastal city of
Saida. Although there are no unserved areas, the system is in a state of disrepair. Existing
water supplies, which are inadequate as well as their treatment, derive from Nabaa El Tasse
Spring (an allocation of 8,000 m-3/day out of a sustainable yield of 18,000 m3/day), two



Annex 1                                                                                    3
regional boreholes (Fakhreddine and Insariye) and from 27 village boreholes providing in
total a sustainable yield of 37,105 m3/day.
4.     Present wastewater collection and disposal situation is summarized as follows:
(a)    in Kesrouan: The sub-project area is served by one major network, connecting about 48
percent of the population, with discharge of untreated wastewater either in the valleys or
through short outfall mains into the sea within or close to beaches used for recreational
purposes. The capacity of existing network, pumping stations, pressure mains, and sea
outfalls can barely cope with present wastewater flows. On-site facilities are septic tanks
and soak-aways, which depending on the permeability of the soil either overflow into
adjacent storm water drains or cause groundwater pollution;
(b)    in Saida: The sub-project area is served by 22 separate networks, connecting about 75
percent of the population, with discharge of untreated wastewater either in adjacent creeks
or through short outfall mains into the sea. Remaining area is served with on-site cesspools
or septic tanks. All the networks operate by gravity. The present system is causing
significant environmental pollution. Operation and maintenance are neglected due to lack
of adequate staffing and institutional structure;
(c)    in Sour: The sub-project area has a rather undeveloped wastewater infrastructure with
only about 35 percent of the population connected to the system mainly in the city of Sour.
Untreated wastewater is discharged directly into the sea through a large number of short
outfall mains causing an unacceptable high level of bacterial contamination along
surrounding beaches. The remainder of the area is served by poorly designed and
constructed septic tanks or soak-aways polluting the groundwater supplies. The discharge
of septic waste is unorganized and environmentally unsatisfactory; and
(d)    in Nabatiye: In the sub-project area only the town of Nabatiye is served with a wastewater
collection system, with a connection rate of about 60 percent (or 14,000 people).  No
treatment facilities exist and wastewater is discharged close to residential areas. Sewers are
laid at shallow depths and are easily damaged posing danger to adjacent low pressure water
mains.
C. Design Criteria
5.    In 1975 sixteen states bordering the Mediterranean Sea adopted the Mediterranean Action Plan
(MAP) for the protection and development of the Mediterranean Basin. The legal framework for the
MAP was determined at a conference in Barcelona in 1976 with additional protocols adopted in Athens,
1980, and Geneva, 1982. The objective adopted by all Mediterranean countries was the construction of
secondary wastewater treatment plants in all coastal cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants and
appropriate outfalls andlor treatment plants in all towns with more than 10,000 inhabitants. The
signatories of the MAP have adopted the WHO/UNEP faecal coliform (FC) standard for recreational
water suitable for bathing. It allows in at least 10 samples taken during the bathing season no more than:
100 FC per 100 ml in 50 percent of the samples; and 1000 FC per 100 ml in 90 percent of the samples.
Under the project (all three coastal sub-project areas exceed the limit of 100,000 people) it is proposed,
in a first phase, to provide for preliminary treatment with outfall mains to be designed to satisfy the FC
standard. In a subsequent phase secondary treatment will be added, for which the timing will be subject
to the results from proposed coastal environmental monitoring. However, for Sour it has proved to be



4                                                                                   Annex I
feasible to provide for secondary treatment already in a first phase and to use the treated effluents for
irrigation.
6.     For the extension or improvements of water supply and wastewater services, the following
criteria have been adopted: the per capita water consumption has been assumed not to exceed 150
liter/day; un-accounted for water, which is presently very high, would be reduced to about 25 percent of
water produced; wastewater and storm water should be collected and discharged in separate networks;
industrial effluents should be pre-treated where required; and satisfactory arrangements should be made
for the servicing of septic tanks. The planning horizon for the project is 2015, but for works that cannot
feasibly be extended in phases, such as trunk mains and submarine outfall mains, the design period has
been determined to 2030.
D. Project Description
7.    The water supply components will include the extension of water production and distribution
facilities as specified below:
(a)    for the Kesrouan sub-project area: (i) extension of the Madiq water source to a total
capacity of 61,500 m3/day (with 36,500 m3/day added under the project); (ii) supply and
installation of a 700 mm transmission main, 19.8 kms long, from Madiq to Zouk Mikayel;
(iii) construction of 6 storage tanks, 2 with a capacity of 2,000 m3 and 4 of 1,000 mi3; (iii)
construction of 5 pumping stations with supply and installation of mechanical and
electrical equipment (capacity varying between 4,000 to 13,000 m3/day); and (iv) supply
and installation of transmission and distribution mains (about 29 krns);
(b)    for the Nabatiye sub-project area: (i) drilling of 6 boreholes and rehabilitation of 2 others;
(ii) construction of 2 booster pumping stations; (iii) installation of chlorination equipment
at 9 sites; (iv) supply and installation of 118 kms of transmission pipelines as well as
rehabilitation of 12 kms of existing lines; (v) construction of 19 concrete reservoirs and
rehabilitation of 32 others; and (vi) supply and installation of 47 kms of distribution mains.
8.     The wastewater components will include the extension of wastewater collection and disposal
facilities as specified below:
(a)    for the Kesrouan sub-project area: (i) supply and installation of secondary wastewater
networks to an approximate length of 63 kms (networks to include connections to the
property lines); (ii) supply and installation of interceptors/trunk mains (in sizes from 300 to
1000 mm) to a length of 14 kms and of pressure mains (in sizes from 700 to 1000 mm) to a
length of 6.6 kms; (iii) construction of 3 pumping stations (in the collection system) with
supply and installation of mechanical and electrical equipment (with the capacities 19,000,
28,000 and 54,000 m3/day); (iv) construction of preliminary treatment works (at Tabarja)
for a capacity of 56,000 m3/day, including I pumping station with supply and installation
of mechanical and electrical equipment; and (v) supply and installation of a 1000 mm
outfall main with a length of 1500 m;
(b)    for the Saida sub-project area:  (i) supply and installation of secondary wastewater
networks to an approximate length of 28 kms (networks to include connections to the
property lines); (ii) supply and installation of interceptors/trunk mains (in sizes from 600 to
1200 mm) to a length of 8 kms; (iii) construction of one pumping/lift station (in the
collection system) with supply and installation of mechanical and electrical equipment for



Annex 1                                                                                    5
a capacity of 47,000 m3/day; (iv) construction of preliminary treatment works for a
capacity of 37,000 m3/day, including inlet and outlet pumping stations with supply and
installation of mechanical and electrical equipment; and (v) supply and installation of a
1000 mm outfall main with a length of 1700 mm;
(c)    for the Sour sub-project area: (i) supply and installation of secondary wastewater networks
to an approximate length of 72 kms (networks to include connections to the property lines);
(ii) supply and installation of interceptors/trunk mains (sizes from 400 to 800 mm) to a
length of 14 kms, and of pressure mains (sizes from 250 to 800 mm) to a length of 4.2 kms;
(iii) construction of 3 pumping stations (in the collection system) with supply and
installation of mechanical and electrical equipment (for capacities 1,100, 7,150 and 28,300
m3/day); (iv) construction of treatment works (for primary and secondary treatment) for a
capacity of 27,000 m3/day, including I pumping station with supply and installation of
mechanical and electrical equipment; (v) supply and installation of a 750 mm outfall main
with a length of 1000 m; and (vi) construction of a pressure main (size 600 mm) for
effluent reuse with a length of 1000 m; and
(d)    for the Nabatiye sub-project area: supplying and installing 2.1 kms of collection mains.
E. Evaluation of Alternatives
9.    Works proposed for implementation have been evaluated as least-cost solutions taking
into account capital investments as well as operation and maintenance costs. The initial
extension of pretreatment works for Kesrouan and Saida, with environmental concerns properly
considered, is more economical than to provide for full treatment in a first phase. Neither was it
found economical to use treated effluents for irrigation. However, for Sour where it is feasible to
use treated effluents for irrigation and where the flat topography for the outfall main makes
preliminary treatment uneconomical, full treatment will be provided for initially. Alternative
locations for the treatment works and outfall mains were evaluated. Alternative alignments of
the trunkmains have been evaluated as well as the choice between deep trenching and the use of
lift pumping stations.  The preferred alignments are also least disturbing to surrounding
population and to the traffic.
10.   For the extension of water supply facilities the evaluation of alternative solutions has
taken into account: (a) the availability of potential water resources; (b) tunnels versus large
transmission mains; (c) location and elevation of storage tanks; (d) and relevant costs at
different standards of service levels.






Annex 2
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Table 1: Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(JS$ million equivalent)
-(:OM 13rmamdoAn                  -- 
Foreign  ; aolal
Components                |    .ncal    Foreign .    ital  I Exchange iase Cost
1. Water Supply & Wastewater (Works):
a. Kesrouan                                  31.7      85.2      116.9        73          46
b. Saida                                     11.2      24.8       36.0        69          15
c. Sour                                      10.9      14.6       25.5        57          10
d. Nabatiye                                   4.3      13.7       18.0        76           7
Subtotal Works      58.1     138.3      196.4        70          78
2. Operation & Maintenance (O&M):
a. Equipment                                   -        4.3        4.3        100          2
b. O&M and Training Services                  2.1      18.7       20.8        90           8
Subtotal O&M         2.1      23.0      25.1         92          10
3. Technical Assistance (TA):
a. Sector Reform                              1.7      14.4       16.1        90           6
b. Engineering Design                         1.1        1.6       2.7        57           1
c. Construction Supervision                   1.1      10.3       11.4        90           5
d. Environmental Monitoring                   0.2       0.7        0.9        78
Subtotal TA       4.1      27.0      31.1         87          12
Total Base Cost                                 64.3     188.3      252.6        75          100
Physical Contingencies                           7.2      20.0       27.2        74          11
Price Contingencies 2                           14.3      13.9       28.2        49          11
Total Project Cost                  85.8    222.2      308.0         72         122
Notes:
Physical contingencies are based on status of project preparation and accuracy of available data for the various components
and are as follows:
- Trunk mains and submarine outfalls ..............................................  15 percent.
- All other civil works and equipment supply and installation ............... 10 percent.
2  Price contingencies are applied according to projected local and foreign annual inflation rates over implementation period.
These rates are as follows:
I pe Or                            (.Cakiit:tu Yar
Cnl-ingenc%       19(7      1998     199')  1 260)0    2001    20112
Local Prices (%)       9.0      8.0      7.0      6.0   7  6.0       6.0
Foreign Prices (%)     2.0      2.1      2.3      2.4       2.4      2.4



2                                                                                                    Annex 2
Table 2: Details of Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million equivalent)
Cosl Breakdown                          %
Farci2ii    Total Base
Components                    :Locai      Foreign    loLdl    Exchange       Cost
1. Water Supply & Wastewater (Works):
a. Kesrouan:
i. Water Supply                            12.3      49.1       61.4       80           24
ii. Wastewater:
Collection                              1.5       5.9        7.4       80            3
Interception                            3.4      13.6       17.0       80            7
Treatment & Pumping Stations            2.0       8.2       10.2       80            4
Outfall Mains                           2.1       8.4       10.5       80            4
Subtotal Wastewater                      9.0      36.1       45.1       80           18
iii. Land Acquisition                      10.4       0.0       10.4       0.0           4
Subtotal Kesrouan                         31.7      85.2      116.9       73           46
b. Saida:
i. Wastewater:
Collection                              0.9       3.7        4.6       80            2
Interception                            1.7       6.9        8.6       80            3
Treatment & Pumping Stations            0.8       3.0        3.8       80            2
Outfall Mains                           2.8      11.2       14.0       80            6
Subtotal Wastewater                      6.2      24.8       31.0       80           12
ii. Land Acquisition                        5.0       0.0        5.0       0.0           2
Subtotal Saida                             11.2      24.8       36.0       69            14
c. Sour:
i. Wastewater:
Collection                              1.1       4.6        5.7       80            2
Interception                            1.0       4.0        5.0       80            2
Treatment & Pumping Stations            0.9       3.6        4.5       80            2
Outfall Mains                           0.6       2.4        3.0       80            1
Subtotal Wastewater                      3.6      14.6       18.2       80            7
ii. Land Acquisition                        7.3       0.0        7.3       0.0           3
Subtotal Sour                              10.9      14.6       25.5       57            10
d. Nabatiye:
i. Water Supply                             3.3      13.0       16.3       80            6
ii. Wastewater                              0.1        0.7       0.8       80            -
iii. Land Acquisition                       0.9       0.0        0.9       0.0 0
Subtotal Nabatiye                           4.3      13.7       18.0       76            7
Subtotal Works     58.1      138.3     196.4        70           78
2. Operation & Maintenance (O&M):
a. Equipment                                  0.0        4.3       4.3       100           2
b. O&M and Training Services                  2.1       18.7      20.8       90            8
Subtotal O&M        2.1      23.0       25.1       92           10
3. Technical Assistance (TA):
a. Sector Reform:                                                                           I
i. Institutional Specialist                 0.1       0.7        0.8       90            .
ii. Phase 2 Activities                      0.4       3.3        3.7       90            I
iii. Phase 3 Activities                     1.2      10.4       11.6       90            5
Subtotal Sector reform                      1.7      14.4       16.1       90            6
b. Engineering Design:                                                                      I
i  Kesrouan Wastewater                      0.9       0.1        1.0       10            -I
ii. Saida Wastewater                        0.1       0.7        0.8       90            l
iii. Sour Wastewater                        0.1       0.8        0.9       90            -
Subtotal Engineering Design                 1.1       1.6        2.7       61
c. Construction Supervision:
i. Kesrouan Water Supply                    0.4       3.8        4.2       90            2
ii. Kesrouan Wastewater                     0.3       2.8        3.1       90            I
iii. Saida Wastewater                       0.2       2.0        2.2       90            I
iv. Sour Wastewater                         0.1       0.8        0.9       90             X
v. Nabatiye Water Supply & Wastewater       0.1       0.9        1.0       90            -
Subtotal Construction Supervision           1.1      10.3       11.4       90            5
d. Environmental Monitoring                   0.2       0.7        0.9       80_
Subtotal TA      4.1       27.0      31.1        87           12
Total Base Cost                                  64.3      188.3     252.6        75          100
Physical Contingencies                            7.2       20.0      27.2        74           11
Price Contingencies                              14.3       13.9      28.2        49           11
Total Project Cost                 85.8      222.2     308.0        72          122
Less than I percent.



Annex 2                                                                                                        3
Table 3: Details of Yearly Project Cost Estimates (including contingencies)
(USS million equivalent)
calpndirYer                   .   Total
Cuompilnent_                   1997    1998    f999    2000    2001    2002    Cost
1. Water Supply & Wastewater (Works):
a. Kesrouan:
i. Water Supply                           -      12.3    41.3    24.1       -        -        77.7
ii. Wastewater:
Collection                             -       -        4.0     5.5      -        -         9.5
Interception                           -       4.0    12.6      4.6      -        -        21.2
Treatment & Pumping Stations           -       2.4      7.5     2.3      -        -        12.2
Outfall Mains                          -       -       4.3      9.3      -        -        13.6
Subtotal Wastewater                   0.0      6.4    28.4    21.7       0.0      0.0      56.5
iii. Land Acquisition                    6.0      6.       -        -       -        -        12.6
Subtotal Kesrouan                        6.0    25.3    69.7    45.8        0.0      0.0      146.8
b. Saida:
i. Wastewater:
Collection                             -       -        3.2     2.7      -        -         5.9
Interception                                   6.0      4.7     -        -        -        10.7
Treatment & Pumping Stations                   0.8      2.7     1.1      -        -         4.6
Outfall Mains                                  -        5.6    12.5      -        -        18.1
Subtotal Wastewater                   0.0      6.8    16.2    16.3      0.0      0.0       39.3
ii. Land Acquisition                     2.9      3.1      -        -                          6.0
Subtotal Saida                           2.9      9.9    16.2    16.3       0.0      0.0      45.3
c. Sour:
i. Wastewater:
Collection                             -       -       3.9      3.5               -         7.4
Interception                                   1.4     4.3      0.5      -        -         6.2
Treatment & Pumping Stations                    1.1    3.4     1.0      -        -         5.5
Outfall Mains                                  -        1.2     2.7      -        -         3.9
Subtotal Wastewater                   0.0      2.5    12.8      7.7      0.0     0.0       23.0
ii. Land Acquisition                     4.2      4.       -        -       -        -         8.8
Subtotal Sour                          4.2      7.1    12.8      7.7    .0.0      0.0       31.8
d. Nabatiye:
i. Water Supply                           2.4    11.3      6.9      -       -        -        20.6
ii. Wastewater                            -       0.3      0.7                                 1.0
iii. Land Acquisition                    0.3      0.8                   -                      1.1
Subtotal Nabatiye                        2.7    124        7 .6    0.0      0.0    0.0        22-7
Subtotal Works   15.8    54.7   106.3    69.8        0.0      0.0      246.6
2. Operation & Maintenance (O&M):
a. Equipment                                 -        1.3     2.4     1.3       -       -         5.0
b. O&M and Training Services                 -        7.1     7.5     7.8       -       -        22.4
Subtotal O&M      0.0      8.4     9.9     9.1      0.0      0.0       27.4
3. Technical Assistance (TA):
a. Sector Reform:
i. Institutional Specialist              0.1      0.3      0.3     0.1               -         0.8
ii. Phase 2 Activities                            1.3      1.3     1.4       .       -         4.0
iii. Phase 3 Activities                   -       -        0.6     4.4      4.6     3.5       13.1
Subtotal Sector reform                   0.1      1.6      2.2     5.9      4.6     3.5       17.9
b. Engineering Design:
i  Kesrouan Wastewater                   0.9      0.2      -        -       -        -         1.1
ii. Saida Wastewater                     0.7      0.1      -                                   0.8
iii. Sour Wastewater                     0.8      0.1      .        -       -        -         0.9
Subtotal Engineering Design              2.4      0.4      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        2.8
c. Construction Supervision:
i. Kesrouan Water Supply                  -       1.3      2.2     1.1      -        -         4.6
ii. Kesrouan Wastewater                           0.9      1.5     1.0      -        -         34
iii. Saida Wastewater                             0.6      0.7     1.0      -        .         2.3
iv. Sour Wastewater                               0.3      0.4     0.3      -        -         1.0
v. Nabatiye Water Supply & Wastewater    0.1      0.5      0.4      -       -        .         1.0
Subtotal Construction Supervision        0.1      3.6      5.2     3.4      0.0     0.0       12.3
d. Environmental Monitoring                  0.0      0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2       1.0
Subtotal TA    2.6      5.8      7.6     9.5      4.8     3.7       34AL
Total Project Cost                 18.4    68.9   123.8    88.4       4.8      3.7     308.0
Numbers may not add up due to rounding error.






~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11tuil 1.                                                                                                                 - 
Breakdown.           GOL                              [iD           OE(CF            V.1               taJ3
Lomparnmci                   Ld I Fan .!T4"al   hint .~ *         hni 1        S  A\mst i   .    AnI   ';    At !  ;             Ant  !'
I. 1    aserS.pjmb i& V.mlmn,arg'auL'I:          . * 
a. Kesrouan                             43.3  103.5   146.8  14.2   4.6    -                 42.9   13.9   77.7   25.2    11.9         3.9   146.8    47.6
b. Saida                                14.8  30.5   45.3    6.0       1.9       -                   -       39.3   12.8          -            45.3    14.7
c. Sour                                 13.3  1.5   31.8   9.0    2.9    -                  19.1   6.2      -              3.6        1.2    31.8    10.3                        C
;P.
d. Nabatiye                             6.2   16.5   22.7   4.0    1.3                       -       -       -       -                 6.1     22.       7.4
Subtotal Works  77.6  169.0  246.6  33.2    1. S                     62.0   20.1    117.0  38.0   34.4    11.2    246.6    80.1
2. Operation & Malntenanee (O&M):
a. Equipment                                   5.0    5.0                                                                   5.0        1.6      5.0      1.6
b. O&M Service Contracts                3.0   19.4   22.4   11.2   3.6                                                       11.2      3.6    22.4       7.3
H 
Subtotal O&M   3.0   24.4   27.4   11.2   3.6                                               .       16.2      5.3     27.4      8.9                      -
3. Technical Assistance (TA):
a. Sector Reform                        2.4   15.5   17.9   0.1    _4    17.1   5.6                                          0.7       0.2     17.9      5.8
b. Engin"ering Dcsign                   1.1   1.7    2.8    2.8    0.9               -                                                          2.8      0.9
c. Construction Supervision             1.5   10.8   12.3   4.4        1.4                                   6.9    2.2      1.0       0.3     12.3      4.0
d. Environmental Monitoring             0.2   0.8      1.0    0.2    0.1                                     -       -       0.        0.3      1.0      0.3        o ,       .   O
Subtotal TA   5.2   28.8   34.0   7.5    2.4   17.1   5.6                         6.9    2.2     25        0.8    34.0    11.0          .e
Total                    85.8  222.2  308.0  si_1 16.9 17.1   5.6    62.0    201    123.9  40.2   531                  17.2   308.0     1 03.0
Includes physical and price contingencies.
2  About US$3.2 million equivalent has been secured. Remaining amount proposed to be negotiated
at a later date. If this funding does not materialize, Government will cover any shortfall.
7  Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
4  Less than I percent.
03



2                                                                                                         Annex 3
Table 2: Details of Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Amounts ta blie rinnced by                     lal
C:ompunents                     (;tI.,       E?F       EIlB      OFC:F       WB       Am1:unl   %
1. Water Supply & Wastewater (Works):
a. Kesrouan:
i. Water Supply                           -          -          -         77.7                  77.7    25.2
ii. Wastewater:
Collection                            -          -          9.5              -               9.5    3.1
Interception                          -          -        21.2                              21.2    6.9
Treatment & Pumping Stations          -          -         12.2                             12.2    4.0
Outfall Mains                         1 6                                        11.9       13.65    4.4
Subtotal Wastewater                    1.6        0.0       42.9        0.0       11.9       56.54   18.4
iii. Land Acquisition                    12.6                              -           -        12.6    4.1
Subtotal Kesrouan                        14.2        0.0       42.9       77.7       11.9      146.8    47.6
b. Saida:
i. Wastewater:
Collection                            -          -          -          5.9        -          5.9    1.9
Interception                          -          -          -         10.7        -         10.7    3.5
Treatment & Pumping Stations          -          -          -          4.6        -          4.6    1.5
Outfall Mains                         -          -          -         18.1        -         18.1    5.9
Subtotal Wastewater                   0.0        0.0        0.0        39.3        0.0       39.3    12.8
ii. Land Acquisition                      6.0        -          -           -          -         6.0    1.9
Subtotal Saida                            6.0        0.0        0.0       39.3        0.0       45.3    14.7
c. Sour:
i. Wastewater:
Collection                            -          -          7.4        -          -          7.4    2.4
Interception                                                6.2              -               6.2    2.0
Treatment & Pumping Stations          -                     5.5        -          -          5.5    1.8
Outfall Mains                        0.2         -          -          -          3.6        3.9    1.2
Subtotal Wastewater                   0.2        0.0        19.1        0.0        3.6       23.0    7.4
ii. Land Acquisition                      8.8        -          -          -           -         8.8    2.9
Subtotal Sour                             9.0        0.0       19.1        0.0        3.6       31.8    10.3
d. Nabatiye:
i. Water Supply                           2.8        -          -          -         17.8       20.6    6.7
ii. Wastewater                            0.1                                         0.9         1.0    0.3
iii. Land Acquisition                     1.1        -          -          -           -         1.1    0.4
Subtotal Nabatiye                         4 0        0 0        0 0        00        18 .8      22.8 8   .
Subtotal Works    33.2          0.0       62.0       117.0       34.4      246.6    80.1
2. Operation & Maintenance (O&M):
a. Equipment                                -          -           -          -         5.0         5.0    1.6
b. O&M Service Contracts                   11.2        -          -           -        11.2       22.4    7.3
Subtotal O&M       11.2        0.0         0.0        0.0       16.2       27.4    8.9
3. Technical Assistance (TA):
a. Sector Reform:
i. Institutional Specialist               0.1        -          -           -         0.7        0.8    0.3
ii. Phase 2 Activities                               4.0                                         4.0    1.3
iii. Phase 3 Activities                   -         13.1        -           -          -        13.1    4.2
Subtotal Sector reform                    0.1       17.1        0.0        0.0        0.7       17.9    5.8
b. Engineering Design:
i  Kesrouan Wastewater                    1.1        -          -           -          .         1.1    0.4
ii. Saida Wastewater                      0.8                                                    0.8    0.3
iii. Sour Wastewater                      0.9                   -          -          -          0.9    0.3
Subtotal Engineering Design               2.8        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        2.8    0.9
c. Construction Supervision:
i. Kesrouan Water Supply                  -          -          -          4.6        -          4.6    1.5
ii. Kesrouan Wastewater                   3.4                                    -               3.4    1.1
iii. Saida Wastewater                                                      2.3                   2.4    0.8
iv. Sour Wastewater                       1.0                                                    0.9    0.3
v. Nabatiye Water & Wastewater            -          -          -           .         1.0        1.0    0.3
Subtotal Construction Supervision         4.4        0.0        0.0        6.9        1.0       12.3    4.0
d. Environmental Monitoring                 0.2        -          -           -         0.8         1.0    0.3
Subtotal TA       7         17.1         0.0       6.9        2.5       34.0    11
Total Amount Financed                 51.9       17.1       62.0       123.9       53.1     308.0    100
Percentage Financed (%)              16.9        5.6       20.1       40.2        17.3     100
Numbers may not add up due to rounding error.
2   About US$3.2 million equivalent has been secured. Remaining amount proposed to be negotiated at a later date. If this
funding does not materialize, Government will cover any shortfall.



Annex 4
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
Table 1: Procurement Methods and Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent) '
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . . . . .__. ....
Priieurehm.eii Ivelhid'
I'm4uJiet  I .keiv111  It               R      ofiir._ ...... N   .t...... ....i;
1. Works:
a. Kesrouan:
i. Water supply production and distribution system                   77.7       77.7
ii. Wastewater collection system and treatment                       42.9       42.9
iii. Outfall mains                              13.6                   -        13.6
(11.9)                          (11.9)
iv. Land Acquisition                             -                   12.6       12.6
b. Saida:
i. Wastewater collection system and treatment                        21.2       21.2
ii. Outfall mains                                           -         18.1      18.1
iii. Land Acquisition                                       -         6.0        6.0
c. Sour:
i. Wastewater collection system and treatment    -          -         19.1      19.1
ii. Outfall mains                                3.9        -          -         3.9
(3.6)                           (3.6)
iii. Land Acquisition                            -                    8.8        8.8
d. Nabatiye:
i. Water supply production and distribution system  20.6               -        20.6
(17.9)                          (17.9)
ii. Wastewater collection system                 1.0                             1.0
(0.9)                           (0.9)
iii. Land Acquisition                            -          -          1.1       1.1
Subtotal Works    39.1        0.0      207.5      246.6
(34.4)                          (34.4)
2. Operation & Maintenance:
a. Equipment                                        2.0        3.0        -         5.0
(2.0)     (3.0)                (5.0)
b. O&M and Training Services                        -         22.4                 22.4
(11.2)               (11.2)
Subtotal Operation & Maintenance      2.0       25.4       0.0       27.4
(2.0)    (14.2)               (16.2)
3. Technical Assistance:
a. Sector Reform:
i. Institutional Specialist                                 0.8        -         0.8
(0.7)                (0.7)
ii. Phase 2 Activities                                                4.0        4.0
iii. Phase 3 Activities                                              13.1       13.1
b. Engineering Design                                          -         2.8        2.8
c. Construction Supervision                                    1.0      11.3       12.3
(1.0)                (1.0)
d. Environmental Monitoring                         -          1.0        -         1.0
(0.8)               (0.8)
Subtotal Technical Assistance    0.0       2.8       31.2       34.0
(2.5)                (2.5)
Total                           41.1       28.2     238.7      308.0
___Q(36.4)    (16.7)      - . (53.1)
Note:
I Includes physical and price contingencies and figures have been rounded.
2  World Bank contribution shown in parentheses.
3 International Shopping (US$3.0 million) and Consultants' Guidelines (US$25.2 million).



I



Annex S
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Disbursements
Table 1: Bank Loan Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million equivalent)
b , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ,   ,                 III.  ..  . *.  _ ..
11:111k  Qin mit  I)j',11 r %4-jeflIenI   41i in U11M I:mii1 a  in  iiliiiv  i    aliiiil :r   Quo rter
Fia,  l                         I II%IIU '  iim.*ni  t    Illl%ei-' 1;ifl:Invil I  t iiiI
VI' n 1'vl                        ||8av|9-lIlos|vlle 1.1'l11XI
, .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                     .... ....... ....... . . .... ... ..   .............. ....................
1997      3           0.0           0.0            0.0          1997       l
1997      4          0.0            0.0            0.0          1997       2
1998      I          0.0            0.0            0.0          1997       3
1998      2           1.8           1.8            3.4          1997       4
1998      3           1.9           3.7            7.0          1998
1998      4           1.9           5.6            10.5         1998       2
1999      1           1.9           7.5            14.1         1998       3
1999      2           5.2           12.7           23.9         1998       4
1999      3          5.0            17.7           33.3         1999       1
1999      4           5.5           23.2           43.7         1999       2
2000      1           5.5           28.7           54.0         1999       3
2000      2           5.0           33.7           63.5         1999       4
2000      3           5.0           38.7           72.9         2000 -
2000      4           5.0           43.7           82.3         2000       2
2001      1           5.0           48.7           91.7         2000        3
2001      2           3.0           51.7           97.4         2000       4
2001      3           0.5           52.2           98.3         2001        1
2001      4           0.4           52.6           99.1         2001       2
2002      1           0.3           52.9           99.6         2001       3
2002      2           0.2           53.1           100.0        2001       4
2002      3           0.0           53.1           100.0        2002        1
2002      4           0.0           53.1           100.0        2002       2
=I                                                                       



2                                                                                             Annex 5
Table 2: Project Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
(USS million equivalent)
("Blender                                i%lhaur%emeni
T                      WeJI   GOIX~r - ...   T -  o .---  w ct;: ,,al v. . ..ul..i.e 
Year     Quaorter    EU               i(EF          n    (.17 :dinlai. 
1997                 --                    __       -    1.80    1.80        1.80       0.6
1997        2                                            2.00    2.00        3.80        1.2
1997        3                                            3.00    3.00        6.80       2.2
1997        4         -       0.50      0.70      1.80    4.60    7.60      14.40       4.7
1998        1       0.50      1.50      3.70      1.90    4.75    12.35     26.75        8.7
1998        2       0.50      2.00      4.50      1.90    5.25    14.15     40.90       13.3
1998        3       0.50      2.50      5.00      1.90    5.50    15.40     56.30       18.3
1998        4       0.50      2.50      5.00      5.20    5.50    18.70     75.00       24.4
1999        1       2.00      6.00      8.00      5.00    5.00    26.00     101.00      32.8
1999        2       2.00     10.00      12.00     5.50    3.50    33.00     134.00      43.5
1999        3       2.00     10.00      14.00     5.50    3.00    34.50    168.50       54.7
1999        4       2.00     10.00      16.00     5.00    2.00    35.00    203.50       66.1
2000        1        1.50     5.00      14.00     5.00    2.00    27.50     231.00      75.0
2000        2        1.50     4.00      13.00     5.00    2.00    25.50     256.50      83.3
2000        3        1.20     3.00      13.00     5.00    1.00   23.20      279.70      90.8
2000        4        1.00     2.50      10.00     3.00    1.00    17.50     297.20      96.5
2001        1        0.30     0.30       1.00     0.50     -      2.10     299.30       97.2
2001        2        0.30     0.30       0.70     0.40     -      1.70      301.00      97.7
2001        3        0.30     0.30       0.50     0.30     -      1.40      302.40      98.2
2001        4        0.20     0.30       0.50     0.20     -      1.20      303.60      98.6
2002        1        0.20     0.40       0.60       -      -      1.20      304.80      99.0
2002        2        0.20     0.30       0.60              -      1.10     305.90       99.3
2002        3        0.20     0.30      0.55               -      1.05     306.95       99.7
2002        4        0.20     0.30      0.55        .             1.05     308.00       100.0
2003        1         -         -                                   -      308.00       100.0
2003        2                                                       -      308.00       100.0
Totals         17.10    62.00      123.90    53.10   51.90   308.0



Annex 5                                                                                         3
Table 3: Bank Loan Disbursement Categories
(in JPY million)
Percentage or Expenditures
Loan Category                  Amount                 to be Financed
1. Civil Works:                                         85% of expenditures
(excluding cost of land)
a. Kesrouan                                 1,130
b. Sour                                       339
c. Nabatiye                                 1,808
2. Goods                                         532    100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 85% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
3. Consultants' Services:                                100% of expenditures
a. Sector Reformn                              68
b. Construction Supervision                   102
c. Environmental Monitoring                    90
4. Operation & Maintenance and Training         1,243   50% of expenditures
Services
5. Unallocated                                   688
Total                        6,000         _                                .



I



1996          1997           1998           1999           2000           2001
ID   TaskName                                     Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2lQ3 Q4lQ1lQ2lQ3lQ4Q1QQ2lQ3lQ41QiQ2lQ3lQ4lQlQ2Q3lQ4
1,
2   Kesrouan:
3       Water Supply
7       Wastewater Collection
11       Wastewater Interception
15       Treatment & Pumping Stations                                                                        V                                      0
19       Sea Outfall
23       Land expropriation
24
25   Saida:                                                      j
26       Water Supply
.   V                                                                      _
30       Wastewater Collection i
34       Wastewater Interception                                                       _      .V
38       Treatment & Pumping Stations
42       Sea Outfall
46       Land expropriation
47
48   Sour:                                                                                                                '_
49       Wastewater Collection
53       Wastewater Interception
57       Treatment & Pumping Stations
61       Sea Ouffall
65       Land expropriation



1996           1997           1998           1999            2000           2001
ID   Task Name                                      Q1|Q2|Q3lQ41QI|Q2|Q3|Q4 Q1|Q2lQ3lQ4Q1|Q2|Q31Q4 Q1|Q2|Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4
66
67   Nabatiye:
68       Water Supply & Wastewater                                                     m      l
74       Land expropriation
75
76   Operations & Maintenance Service Contract(s)                                i    m       i_
80
81   O&M Equipment (for 5 RWSCs)                                   ,;_
DS   Sector ReforrnsI                                                        
90   Consultancies                                                  m 
91       Engineering/Constr. Supervision                           i                   m                            m      t     _
97A
98       Environmental Monitoring
Ch



Annex 7                                                                                 1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
1.    The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which focuses on the
following key over-arching development objectives:
(a)    Rehabilitation of infrastructure.
(b)    Addressing environmental concerns.
(c)    Commercialization of public services.
The project is a part of a larger strategy towards achieving the above development objectives.
2.    The project was designed to achieve specific outcomes/targets, which in themselves are key
ingredients for fulfillment of the development objectives. These outcomes are listed below and are
grouped according to the relevant developmental objective:
(a)    Rehabilitation of infrastructure
i.    Extend and improve water supply and wastewater services in selected areas.
ii.    Ensure satisfactory operation and maintenance of equipment installed or
rehabilitated under the NERP.
(b)    Addressing environmental concerns
i.    Improve sanitary and environmental conditions in three major urban areas of the
coastal zone and one in the hinterland.
ii.    Reduce groundwater and surface water pollution.
iii.    Reduce the pollution in the sea to restore beaches for recreational use.
(c)    Commercialization of public services
1.    Restructure the sector to enable commercial operation and increased private sector
participation.



2                                                                                          Annex 7
3.     The table below defines either numerically or chronologically desired levels for these
outcomes/targets:
Development Objectives with desired                     Calendar Year
Outcome/Target levels                 1997    1998    19 9  1 2000    2001
a. Rehabilitation of infrastructure
i.  Extend and irnprove water supply service
measured by additional population served:
Kesrouan                                                         16,000
Nabatiye                                                         25,000
ii. Extend and improve wastewater service
measured by additional population served:
Kesrouan                                                         39,500
Saida                                                            40,000
Sour                                                             33,000
Nabatiye                                                         15,000         l
b. Addressing environmental concerns
i.  Improve sanitary and environmental conditions in
4 urban areas:
Kesrouan                                                           Q3
Saida                                                             Q2
Sour                                                               Q2
Nabatiye                                          Q4                             l
ii. Reduce groundwater and surface water pollution:
Kesrouan                                                           Q2
Nabatiye                                                  Q3
iii. Reduce pollution in the sea to restore beaches for
recreational use:
Kesrouan                                                           Q2
Saida                                                              Q2
Sour                                                               Q2
c. Commercialization
i. Restructure the sector to enable commercial
operation and increased private sector
participation:
Passing Law on Sector Reform                      Q3
Creation of Regional Companies                            Q2_
4.     In order to monitor progress towards achieving above outcomes/targets a complementary set of
performance monitoring indicators were discussed with the borrower. These indicators were designed to
capture progress towards achieving the project's stated objectives and would in turn serve as a tool for
affecting more meaningful project supervision, and subsequent evaluation. These indicators are grouped
according to:
(a)    Resource Inputs. Project funds disbursed are used as a measurable proxy for resource
inputs. A summary of total disbursement is presented below.



Annex 7                                                                                         3
Disbursements
(U.SS millons equivalent)
Funding by       C97    CY98    CY99   CY2000  CY2001  CY2002
Cofmanciers            3.0     39.6    115.0    87.7       6.4       4.4
Government            11.4     21.0     13.5      6.0       -
(b)    Implementation Outputs.  These indicators depict specific contracts for goods and
services produced by the project. Key contracts are listed below. Details are presented
in the implementation schedule in Annex 6.
-        Calendar Year
I OutpuVAefiviq(star aad_eompiedon_dates)  1997  im     19f [994 ;20001E20
1. Extend and improve water supply
service:
Kesrouan                              Ql            Q3
Nabatiye                       Q4            Q4
2. Extend and improve wastewater
service:
Kesrouan                              Ql            Q4
Saida                                 Ql            Q4
Sour                                  QI            Q4
Nabatiye                       Q4            QI          _
3. Sea outfalls:
Kesrouan                              Q4            Ql
Saida                                 Q4            QI
Sour                                  Q4            QI
4. Ensure satisfactory O&M of equipment
installed or rehabilitated         Q3                  Q3
5. Environmental monitoring                   Q3                  Q4
6. Sector Restructuring:
Institutional Specialist       Q3                   Q3
Phase 2 activities                    Ql            Ql
Phase 3 activities                           Q4



4                                                                                           Annex 7
(c)    Project Impacts. These include the highest-level results that the project can achieve
directly and for which it will be held accountable. Key project impacts are listed below:
Targets
Desired Pmject Impact             1997   1998  1999 1 21004  2001
1. Percentage of unaccounted for water
(UFW):
Kesrouan                          40    38    37       34     30
Saida                             40    38      37     34     30
Sour                              50    45      40     37     35
Nabatiye                          50    45      40     37     35
2. Water quality measured as percentage    (to be determined by studies)
passing samples:
Kesrouan
Saida
Sour
Nabatiye                                                          l
3. Reduced bacteriological content in     (to be based on oceanographic
beach pollution:                    surveys and environmental standards)
Kesrouan
Saida
Sour
(d)    Financial Indicators. These include key financial indicators which were developed in
connection with the financial analysis for this project.
Indicators                              Targcts
1. Operating Ratio                          0.5-0.8
(oprt. costs/oprt. revenues)
2.  Rate of Return                           >5%
(net oprt. income/net fixed assets)
3.  Current Ratio                       to be specified
(current assets/current liabilities)   in RFPs      All these
4. Accounts Receivable Collection Period  to be specified  indicators to be
(month equivalent in sales)            in RFPs      reported every
5.  Debt/Equity Ratio                   to be specified  quarter for each of
in RFPs    the RWSCs.
6.  Service Coverage Ratio              to be specified
in RFPs
7.  Self-financing Ratio                to be specified
in RFPs



Annex 8                                                                                  1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
A. Environmental Review Process
1.    The project has been placed in environmental screening category "A" consistent with the
provisions of Operational Directive 4.01. Environmental Assessments (EAs) were undertaken for the
water supply and wastewater facilities for each of the four sub-project areas in Kesrouan, Saida, Sour and
Nabatiye. The EAs are available in the Project File.
B. Existing Environmental Conditions and Project Benefits
2.    Wastewater, centrally collected, is mainly disposed of untreated through a number of short
outfall mains along the coast and to a minor extent in nearby surface water streams. For individual
wastewater facilities, septic tanks and soak-aways, the effluent infiltrates into the ground. Areas close to
wastewater outlets into the sea have shown bacteriological pollution, and the Ministry of Environment
(MOE) has closed some beaches for bathing because of public health risks. According to a UNICEF
estimate, based on a 1991 study, some 80 percent of public water supplies in Lebanon were polluted.
The EAs predict that through the project there will be a general improvement in public health conditions,
and that beaches for recreation along the coastal areas of Kesrouan, Saida and Sour will be restored.
Furthermore, the provision of new and the rehabilitation of defunct wasterwater collection mains will
eliminate or significantly reduce the risk for bacteriological pollution of groundwater and local springs.
C. Consultations with Government Agencies and Affected Groups
3.    A public consultation meeting was held in Sour with representatives from local municipalities,
community associations, social institutions and the Public Hospital. In Kesrouan and Saida, discussions
were held with the owners and managers of large industries and with municipal authorities. Similar
meetings have taken place in Nabatiye. Information collected and opinions expressed were incorporated
into the project concept and proposed mitigation measures.
D. Environmental Evaluation of Alternatives
4.    The basic project concept - which is similar for the sub-project areas in Kesrouan, Saida and
Sour, while works in the Nabatiye sub-project area are more in the nature of rehabilitation - consists of:
(i) extension and rehabilitation of water supply systems including water sources, water treatment works
and storage tanks, and transmission and distribution mains; and (ii) extension and rehabilitation of
wastewater collection systems with the construction of treatment works and sub-marine outfall mains. In
a first stage, preliminary treatment will be provided for Kesrouan and Saida, while secondary treatment
will, initially, be provided for Sour. The design criteria for the wastewater treatment works and the sub-
marine outfall mains are shown in Annex 1.   For Kesrouan and Saida sufficient land will be
purchased to enable a later extension with secondary treatment, for which the timing will be decided
through a monitoring of the coastal water quality. For Sour the treated wastewater will be discharged for
part of the year into an irrigation canal for reuse. Any reuse of treated wastewater in Kesrouan and Sour
has not been proved to be feasible. During project preparation alternative solutions and related
environmental aspects have been analyzed. Least cost solutions have been selected, which also will



2                                                                                     Annex 8
ensure optimal environmental benefits. The site selected for the wastewater treatment works in Sour will
require relocation of about 12 people. A relocation plan satisfactory to the Bank has been agreed with
the Government.
E. Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
5.     Environmental mitigation measures developed in the EAs are summarized as follows:
(a)    Impacts related to the siting and routing of facilities: During the feasibility studies
the siting of various works was done in view of avoiding: (i) relocation of housing; (ii)
encroachment on historical and cultural property; (iii) blocking visual and physical
access to beach areas; (iv) locations close to touristic and dense housing areas where
many people may be affected by bad odors; (v) conflicts with future planned land uses;
and (vi) conflicts with commercial fishing.
(b)    Impacts related to design of facilities and equipment:  The most critical project
components are the wastewater treatment works and the sub-marine outfall mains.
Criteria have been established for the design, which will be based on data to be gathered
and analyzed during an oceanographic survey covering a one year period. A monitoring
program for the coastal waters will be carried out, and land at the treatment sites has
been reserved for a later extension to secondary treatment.  The timing for such
extension will depend on the results from the monitoring. This concludes that provisions
have been made for initial and potential future requirements. The sludge to be collected
at the preliminary treatment works will be disposed of at sanitary landfills. For Sour
where oxidation ponds have been proposed, sludge handling will not pose a problem.
(c)    Short-term  impacts during construction activities.  Mitigation will be achieved
through the integration of relevant clauses into construction specifications and on-site
supervision of construction works. Specific matters to be addressed are: disturbance to
traffic, damages to existing infrastructure and utilities, accidental discharges of
lubricants, fuels, and other toxic materials, soil erosion and dust creation, contouring and
landscaping, disposal of surplus soil, protection of cultural properties, solid waste
disposal, and excessive noise. An associated impact of construction is expansion of
existing as well as development of new aggregate quarries. Lebanon, however, has new
regulations to control excessive noise and dust from quarries, that require preparation of
rehabilitation plans upon closure of such sites to ensure re-vegetation and re-integration
into the landscape.
(d)    Long-term impacts during operations. Major long-term impacts may occur if the
above mitigation measures are not carried out, or if there is improper operation and
maintenance of the water supply and wastewater facilities. As stated under (b), the
monitoring program will indicate the timing for the need of improved wastewater
treatment. Routine analysis of potable water will show any deficiency in disinfection,
which then will be corrected. Agreement has also been reached on the discharge of
harmful industrial effluents into the wastewater collection system and before January 1,
2000, on-site pretreatment should be in place as required. This would ensure that
These are specified in Annex l and 2 of the Land Based Sources Protocol.



Annex 8                                                                                      3
wastewater discharged into the system can also be satisfactorily disposed of through the
treatment works and outfall mains.
F. Environmental Monitoring Plan
6.     The environmental monitoring plan will be similar for each of the coastal sub-project areas. The
monitoring will include to the extent required: (i) physical oceanographic measurements (currents,
vertical profiles of temperature, oxygen, salinity, light attenuation and fluorescence); (ii) seawater
chemical analyses (pH, chlorophyll, suspended solids, total nitrogen, ammonia N, nitrate and nitrites,
total P, inorganic-reactive P, bacteriological quality); (iii) bathing water quality at beaches adjacent to
the sea outfalls (visual and bacteriological quality); and (iv) fish, benthic and shellfish in proximity to the
sea outfalls to qualitatively and quantitatively estimate the effects of effluent discharge. Monitoring will
commence prior to construction of the outfalls and continue during the construction period and
subsequently during operations. Water quality at springs and groundwater aquifers will be monitored to
ensure conformance with public health standards. Terms of reference for the preparation of a monitoring
program are available in the Project File.
G. Environmental Institutional Issues
7.     The principal institutions responsible for ensuring satisfactory environmental conditions for the
provision of water supply and for the collection and disposal of wastewater will be the MHER and MOE
at the national level and the RWSICs/RWSCs (see Annex 9) at the regional level. Technical support to
be provided under the project will enable relevant entities to better address environmental issues related
to the delivery of water supply and wastewater services. For project execution, consultants have been
appointed with environmental specialization. This also applies to the SIU or its successor, which will
remain responsible for project management.






Annex 9                                                                                1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Sector Reforms
1.    The Government of Lebanon (GOL) has developed a policy and strategy framework for water
and wastewater sector reforms.  The framework, including arrangements to be made for its
implementation, is elaborated upon in the following paragraphs.
A. Water Sector Policy
2.    The main features of the GOL's water sector policy, which has been translated into a draft law,
are:
(a)   Investments in water supply, wastewater, and irrigation should support the GOL's
overall development objectives and reflect its environmental policies and standards.
(b)    Sector investments should be based on economic and financial least-cost solutions to
identified problems, and should conform to the GOL's water resource allocation and
utilization policies and guidelines.
(c)    All costs for the provision of water supply, wastewater and irrigation services (operation
and maintenance, loan amortization) should be borne by the users, through the payment
of tariffs, fees and taxes, to ensure long-term sustainability; tariffs are the preferred
method since they can readily reflect the actual costs for the services.
(d)    GOL may provide short-tern financial assistance for population groups unable to meet
such requirements immediately, under guidelines and criteria of eligibility to be
determined from time to time, but in any event only after all possibilities of internal
cross-subsidies have been fully exhausted.
(e)    Sector policy and regulatory functions should be assigned to national organizations, and
executive functions should be the responsibility of regional and local organizations.
These regional and local organizations, publicly-owned, should operate on a commercial
basis following a business plan, which clearly defines objectives and ensures the
organization's financial viability, and which is approved by the organization's board and
the tutelage ministry.
(f)    Authority and responsibility for operation and maintenance of services should be vested
in the lowest level of organization capable of assuming this function. Regional
organizations should be given the authority to devise systems of local operation of
facilities and to provide technical assistance to communities willing to operate and
maintain their own facilities. This would combine the benefits of economy of scale (e.g.,
central purchasing, common management, major repair facilities) with the benefits of
local administration.
(g)    The private sector should be encouraged to carry out specific activities (such as
equipment maintenance), or to assume all service functions (such as management of



2                                                                                    Annex 9
entire systems), wherever this would result in better efficiency and provision of better
services.
(h)    Users should be consulted prior to investment decisions regarding service levels and
standards and related costs, and in rural areas operation and maintenance should, to the
extent feasible, be based on community participation.
(i)    To reduce investment costs and to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of works,
selected technologies should be adjusted to suit local, cultural, financial and physical
conditions and the operational capacity of respective community.
B. Institutions
3.     The objectives under the sector reforms would be achieved through the development of the
following institutions:
At the National Level
(a)    A National Water Resource Authority (NWRA) should be responsible for the strategic
planning of water resources development and for their allocation to different users.
These functions are initially proposed to be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Hydraulics and Electric Resources (MHER) with, based on experience to be gained, the
creation of NWRA in a subsequent phase under the tutelage of MHER.
(b)    A Finance Regulatory Commission (FRC) should be responsible for setting cost
recovery, tariff, accounting and auditing policies, for monitoring the financial
performance of operating entities, and for reviewing and approving tariff proposals for
water supply, wastewater and irrigation services.
(c)    The MHER should be responsible for policy and planning functions, such as:
*   strategic planning for the sector, including regulation of private sector participation.
*   establishment of standards on service levels, technical and design matters and on
operation and maintenance.
*   issuance of project development and procurement regulations.
*   determination of the need for, and the provision of, technical assistance.
*   determination of the need for financial assistance (including the setting of
conditions and eligibility criteria under which financial aid is to be made available)
in consultation with FRC.
*   assistance in human resource development.
*   monitoring and evaluation of the performance of operating entities.



Annex 9                                                                               3
At the Regional Level
(a)    Regional water supply, sanitation and irrigation companies (RWSIC's) will be
established for North Lebanon, Beirut and Mount Lebanon, and North Beka'a. Regional
water supply and sanitation companies (RWSCs) will be established for South Beka'a
and South Lebanon with the Litani River Authority to remain responsible for irrigation
(b)    The RWSICs/RWSCs should be autonomous, publicly andlor privately owned, subject to
commercial law, with Board of Directors, with members from the public and the private
sectors, appointed to staggered fixed terms to ensure continuity.  The Council of
Ministers would appoint the chairman of the board and board members representing the
government upon nomination by the Minister of MHER. The RWSICs/RWSCs should
be responsible for the provision of water and wastewater services to urban and rural
areas, with the RWSICs to additionally be responsible for operation and maintenance of
headworks, pumping stations, main and secondary canals for irrigation systems.
Responsibility for wastewater should be taken over gradually in pace with the
development of a capacity for its management.
(c)    Each RWSIC/RWSC should be autonomous and be able to conduct its business in the
manner of a commercial entity in accordance with a business plan containing verifiable
performance targets. The business plan would be updated annually and approved by the
MHER. Once the business plan has been approved, the RWSICs/RWSCs could proceed
with its implementation without further authorizations, unless changing conditions
would necessitate major revisions to be made.
(d)   In Summary, the RWSICs/RWSCs would be responsible for:
-  Planning, design and implementation of regional and local programs and projects,
in accordance with overall plans and strategies developed by the MHER.
e   Construction, operation and maintenance of facilities.
e   Management of services, ensuring that the entire population of the region is served.
*   Proposing and, subject to approval by the FRC, implementing tariffs, as needed, to
maintain financial viability.
*   Human resource development and personnel administration.
* Technical assistance to other executing agencies and local communities.
*   Coordination with agencies responsible for other complementary services such as
solid waste and drainage.
*   Contracting for services to be provided by private enterprises, wherever the benefits
to the users justify such action.



4                                                                                   Annex 9
C. Implementation
4.     For implementation of proposed sector reforms, Government decisions or Parliament resolutions
should be made or enacted regarding:
(a)   the creation of the RWSICs/RWSCs with the initial status of authorities through decrees
to be issued by the Council of Ministers. That will also initiate the development of these
authorities;
(b)   the enactment of the draft law based on which the regional authorities can be converted
into companies and the entities at the national level can be established and developed as
envisaged; and
(c)   the establishment and development of the NWRA.
5.    The sector reforms should be implemented according to the following three phases:
(a)    Phase 1 (1993-98) will be completed with the enactment of the draft law. It has
included a review of legislative and regulatory requirements, preparation of a draft law,
the broad design of proposed organizational structures, the preparation of an outline
work program for Phase 2, and, as an interim measure, the establishment of regional
authorities.
(b)    Phase 2 (1997- 1999) will include actions needed for the establishment and development
of the FRC and the RWSICs/RWSCs and the restructuring of the MIHER. It will also
cover the preparation of an action program for the implementation of Phase 3.
(c)    Phase 3 (1999-2002) will support the various sector entities in their start-up and initial
operation, which will include the provision of technical assistance, training, and
management contracts.
6.    For the management of actions to be taken under sector reforms, the Government will establish,
before mid-1997, a Steering Committee (SC) to be chaired by the Minister of MHER. The duties and
responsibilities of the SC are summarized as:
* to establish and manage a technical secretariat;
* to manage the overall process of sector reforms and to decide on policy issues;
* to enter into contracts for consultant and other services and for specific procurements;
* to review and approve specific proposals on institutional matters and where needed to seek
the endorsement of the Council of Ministers; and
* to keep concerned Government authorities informed and coordinate with financing
agencies.
A Technical Secretariat (TS), to act as the executive arm of the SC, will be established with an
Institutional Specialist (IS) to be appointed, before mid-1997, to head the TS and report directly to the
chairman of the SC. The duties of the IS are summarized as:
* to identify and manage all activities under sector reforms;
* to prepare TORs and contract documents for the appointment of consultants;
* to manage and review the consultant works;
* to prepare work programs and progress reports;



Annex 9                                                                                      5
*   to organize workshops and disseminate information; and
*   to coordinate with Government authorities and financing agencies.
Job descriptions for the SC, TS and IS are available in the Project File.
E. Proposed Technical Assistance
7.     Proposed technical assistance (TA) will include the following major components:
(a)    the provision of an Institutional Specialist;
(b)    the provision of consultant services as required under phase 2 of sector reforms;
(c)    the provision of technical assistance and management contracts as required under phase
3 of sector reforms; and
(d)    the provision of independent auditors to review performance under technical assistance
and management contracts.
Components (b) and (c) have been further elaborated upon in below paragraphs, for which terms of
reference/request for proposals have been prepared and are available in the Project File.
8.     Activities to be included under phase 2 could be summarized as follows:
(a)    For MHER: The objectives would be to (i) specify functions and responsibilities and to
assess expected workload; (ii) define and implement a program for organizational
restructuring, including preparation of procedures and manuals; (iii) prepare a human
resource development plan and to carry out a training program for core staff; (iv) design
accounting and management information systems; and (v) prepare the general guidelines
and relevant systems and procedures for the interrelationship between the MHER and the
RWSICs/RWSCs;
(b)    For FRC: The objectives would be to (i) specify functions and responsibilities and
interagency relationships and to assess expected workload; (ii) prepare organizational
and staffing structures including job descriptions and qualification criteria; (iii) prepare
bye-laws, rules and regulations as well as systems and procedures; and (iv) prepare
staffing proposals and training program;
(c)    For NWRA: The objectives would be to (i) specify functions and responsibilities and to
assess expected workload; (ii) prepare organizational and staffing structures including
job descriptions and qualification criteria; (iii) prepare bye-laws, rules and regulations as
well as systems and procedures; and (iv) prepare staffing proposals and training
program. The above objectives would also apply to the initial development of this
capacity within MHER;
(d)    For RWSICs/RWSCs:  For RWSICs/RWSCs, in case of management contracts,
Requests for Proposals will be prepared on the assumption that the scope of works under
a management contract will include the preparation and implementation of
organizational and staffing proposals and operational systems and procedures. For
RWSICs/RWSCs, in case of technical assistance contracts, the objectives would be to:
(i) specify functions and responsibilities and to assess expected workloads; (ii) prepare



6                                                                                      Annex 9
inventories of all assets with assessment of present conditions; (iii) prepare
organizational and staffing structures including job descriptions and qualification
criteria; (iv) assess existing staff with proposals to be prepared on its integration in
respective company; (v) prepare training program; (vi) design systems and procedures;
and (vii) identify specific requirements on technical assistance.
9.     Activities to be included under phase 3 will be identified in detail under phase 2 and will mainly
concentrate on the implementation of technical assistance and management contracts. To assist in the
monitoring of performance, an auditing firm will be appointed to report directly to the Board of Directors
of respective RWSICslRWSCs. This firm would be expected to review and analyze progress made in
relation to targets and objectives and to prepare quarterly reports. TORs for the auditing firm are in the
Project File.
10.    Cost estimates and implementation schedule for TA are shown in Annex 2 and 6 respectively.



Annex 10                                                                                     1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Financial and Economic Analysis
A. Financial Analysis
1.     Financial analysis of the least-cost investments for the four sub-project areas, Kesrouan, Saida,
Sour and Nabatiye, summarized in the Attachment to this annex, focuses on affordability of improved
service by beneficiaries, and on cost recovery of investments by the regional water and sanitation
companies. Details are included in the Project File (see Annex 11). Differential tariffs with higher
levels of cost recovery from non-household users (1.5 to 2.5 times) will enable household water supply
and wastewater charges to remain affordable, remaining below 5 percent of the relevant incomes, in all
cases.
2.     External borrowings are assumed to be serviced at terms averaging 7.0 percent, with 5 years
grace and 15-year repayment, reflecting near commercial terms for on-lending the mix of finance
provided by the different lenders (Bank US$52 million at 7 percent, Japan US$124 million equivalent at
3 percent, EIB US$62 million at 4 percent). Together with higher operating expenses, distributed over a
growing volume of water sold, these determine the annual revenue cover needed. The average costs of
water and sanitation services per cubic meter of water supplied, thus calculated for Kesrouan, Saida,
Sour and Nabatiye (US$1.42, 1.03, 0.96 and 0.61 respectively) are based on full cost recovery, i.e.,
covering all debt-service and operating expenses. Minimal contributions towards future investments (20
percent of the expected 2006-2015 requirements) and liquidity requirements have been factored as part
of these projections. Applicable tariffs may, therefore, have to be higher in reality, especially for non-
household consumers.
3.     Reviews of existing water authority financial results indicate negative or small operating margins
that currently can not support future energy and personnel costs to operate new investments. Projected
income streams, without project implementation, would be negligible. Higher operating costs are,
therefore, included in the analysis as these reflect delivery of quality service to elicit the cost recovery
needed. Thus proposed investments, total operating costs and all future cash flows projected would be
largely incremental
4.     The limited data on which this analysis is based points to the importance of a regular review of
water supply and wastewater sector financial data. The bidding process (requests for proposals - RFPs)
for management contracts for operation and maintenance will provide an opportunity for more detailed
review.
Currently, details of charges incurred by area water offices are not completely known, especially those in
arrears to other public entities (e.g., the power company). Feasibility reports prepared for the project
assessed operating costs, based on reasonable operating assumptions for Kesrouan, Sour and Saida. These
will need to be further revised as and when additional information is available, particularly for Nabatiye.



2                                                                                     Annex 10
B. Economic Analysis
5.            In urban areas the majority of households have access to piped water but receive only
intermittent service - typically from one to three times a week for periods of about eight hours - of water
which is generally contaminated. Household water supply is not metered in Lebanon and the charge for
piped water is based on pipe diameter (orifice) which for most households is sized to deliver one cubic
meter of water over a 24-hour period with a continuous flow. The annual charge for such a service is:
Kesrouan      $68 per year
Saida         $56 per year
Sour          $50 per year
Nabatiye      $50 per year
If the flow of water were to be continuous, the tariff per m3 would be about US$0.16, but the intermittent
service currently available results in an effective price ranging from about US$0.30 to over US$0.60 per
m3. Because of the insufficiency of piped supplies in urban areas, these are commonly supplemented by
tanker delivered water. Outside urban areas, tanker deliveries are a prime source of water supply.
Surveys undertaken in the three project areas and elsewhere in Lebanon indicate that the charge for
tanker water is US$0.80 - 1.00 per m3 excluding the price of transport, which increases the delivered
price to about US$3.00 per m3 in the coastal plains and to US$5.00 per m3 in the mountain areas.
Drinking water is priced at US$3.75 per 19 liter container (20 cents per liter) or 45 cents for a one and a
half liter bottle (30 cents per liter).
6.     Surveys undertaken during project preparation show that for an average household income of
US$350 per month, the combination of piped water and tanker deliveries results in an average cost of
US$1.32 per m3. These costs are relatively high in relation to water tariffs in the region and elsewhere.2
7.    In Kesrouan and Nabatiye sub-project areas,3 the investments made will add additional water
supply and improve quality of existing water to make it drinkable by reducing infiltration of wastewater
and by improved treatment. Without taking into account the improvements to existing water supply,
based on the incremental costs of water supply in these two sub-project areas and the incremental water
made available as a result of the project, the estimates of long run average incremental cost (LRAIC) per
m3 for each area, using a 10 percent discount rate, are shown below together with similar estimates for
wastewater:
LRAIC of Water Supplied (US$ per m3)
~~~~~~~~~~_ __________________________________    -          11
Sluh-Project Area   Water Supply   Wastewater   l'otal
Kesrouan                0.99            0.37             1.36
Nabatiye                0.99            0.09             1.08
2      Average Water Tariffs (I994): Germanv, $1.70/m3; USA, $0.53/m3; Morocco, $0.36/m; Israel (1992),
$1.09/m3; and Ramallah (1992), $1.13/rn3.
3      For Saida and Sour sub-project areas only the wastewater components are financed under this project.



Annex 10                                                                                3
Estimates of the economic benefits for the water supply components are based on the existing price paid
of US$1.32 per cubic meter for water. The economic rate of return analysis for Kesrouan and Nabatiye
is shown in Tables I and 2 respectively, and summarized below:
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Sub-Project Area     Base Case j                    Sensitivity Analysis
Scenario        Scenario A    i    Scenario 13       Scenario C  l
Kesrouan            15                12                  1 1               7
Nabatiye            15                12                  1 I              1_ 3
Notes: Base Case:    Cost and benefit streams for the wastewater components are excluded.
Scenario A:   Cost streams increased by 20 percent.
Scenario B:   Benefit streams decreased by 20 percent.
Scenario C:   Incremental cost stream for the wastewater components are added.
8.    Although economic benefits can not be truly assessed for the wastewater components without
quantifying the value of water supply and sanitation improvements as well as health and tourism benefits
from environmental clean up of beaches and coastal areas, economic rates of return are expected to be
significantly higher as improved levels of service and assurance of continuous water supply will enable
improved economic activity to take place.



(US$ million at constant 1996 prices unless otherwise indicated)
C'alendar Year                                                                                  - -
llem          I9tY0  11999  *2000   2001 1 20102   20031 21104  2W05   2006 1207  1201M   !2009  12010   '2015   2016  [20.410   2031   2045   2046
jto   i           to              tn             to
2014                202S            2044           2044
Incremental water        2.48    5.04    8.53    8.66    h. 19    8.93   9.06    9.19    9.33    9.46    9.59    9.73    9.99    9.99    9.99    9.99    9.99    9.99    9.99
supplied (MCM)
Incremental Water
Supply Cost Stream:
1. Investments          13.80  42.90   25.60                                                                                  7.00            7.00           7.00
2. O&M costs             0.74    1.09    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55
Total costs  14.27  43.99   27.15    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    1.55    8.55    1.55    8.55    1.55    8.55    1.55
LRAIC for water          0.99
supplied (S/mi3)                  __
Incremental wastewater   6.13   14.31   20.44   20.44  20.44   20.44  20.44  20.44  20.44  20.44   20.44   20.44  20.44  20.44   20.44   20.44  20.44  20.44  20.44               ;
collected and treated
(MCM)                                                                                                                                                                            .
Incremental Wastewater
Cost Stream: 
1. Investments a        21.20   30.00   22.70                                                                                 5.00            5.00           5.00                0
2. O&M costs             0.18    0.42    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60   0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60     0
Total costs 21.38   30.42   23.30    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    5.60    0.60    5.60   0.60    5.60   0.60
LRAIC for wastewater     0.37
($/m3)
Incremental Benefit
Streamn:s
Water supply revenue     3.27    6.65   11.26   11.43   11.61   11.78   11.96   12.13   12.31   12.49   12.66   12.48   13.19   13.19   13.19   13.19   13.19   13.19   13.19
Net Benerit:                                                                                                    _ 
1. Water supply only    (10.99) (37.34) (15.89)   9.88   10.06   10.23   10.41   10.58   10.76   10.94   11.11   11.29   11.64   4.64   11.64   4.64   11.64   4.64   11.64
ERR  14.5%
NPV (at 10%) 27.40                                                                                                                                                     t1A
2. Water supply and    (32.37) (67.76) (39.19)   9.28    9.46    9.63    9.81    9.98   10.16   10.34   10.51   10.69   11.04   (0.96)  11.04   (0.96)  11.04   (0.96)  11.04     e
wastewater                                                                                                                                                                    0
ERR   6.5%
NPV (at 10%) (40.21)                                   _                                      _   .           _                                     _
Assumptions:
1.    Investments include all applicable land acquisition, civil works, equipment, design and supervision but excludes taxes.
2.     The life of the investments are assumed to be 50 years with no residual value, while pumps and similar equipment are assumed to be replaced every 15 years (in the years 2015, 2030 and
2045) at a cost of US$7 million and US$5 million, or 20% of total initial investments for water supply and wastewater components respectively.
3.     Annual incremental O&M costs are estimated at US$1.55 and US$0.6 million or 2% of applicable investment costs for water supply and wastewater components respectively.
4.     Incremental revenue generated is based on existing price paid of US$1.32 per cubic meter of water. There is no direct charge for wastewater.
5.     As a direct result of O&M improvements supported by the project, unaccounted-for-water is assumed to decline by 1 % annually form 39% in 1996 to 25% by 2010.
6.     At the completion of the project additional water production is projected to be 13.32 MCM per year.
7.     Cost and benefit streams for the wastewater component are excluded.
a/     Includes land acquisition cost of US$5.4 million at the end of 1997.



(USS million at constant 1996 prices unless otherwise indicated)
,Caendar b-ear
Item         199I   1    99 S    . NIY'   2001 i Hr-   2003   2.1204   25   2tP36   2ut7 - 2j6O.   2009   20:0   201)1   2016   20'Gi   2031   2045   2046
to            mc,            to             to
'20114          20-29          -04'         -049
Incremental water    0.65   1.33   2.25    2.29   2.32    2.36   2.39    2.43    2.46   2.50    2.53    2.57    2.60   2.64   2.64   2.64   2.64   2.64   2.64   2.64
supplied (MCM)
Incremental Water
Supply Cost Stream:
1. Investments       2.60  11.80   7.20                                                                                        2.50           2.50           2.50
2. O&M costs          0.12   0.25   0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41   0.41    0.41   0.41   0.41    0.41   0.41
Total costs  2.72  12.05   7.61    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41   2.91    0.41   2.91   0.41    2.91    0.41
LRAIC for water       0.99
supplied (S/m3)
Incremental          0.59   1.20   2.03    2.06    2.09    2.12   2.15    2.19   2.22   2.25    2.28   2.31    2.34   2.38   2.38   2.38   2.38   2.38   2.38   2.38            -3
wastewater collected
and treated (MCM)
Wastewater Cost
Strem:~
1. Investments        1.40   0.70                                                                                                                                               O
2. O&M costs               .                                                                              ____                                                                  O
Total costs   I 40   0.70
LRAIC for             0.09
wastewater (S/m3)                                                                                                                                                               >
Incremental Benerit                                                                                                                                                             i
stream:oe
Water supply revenue   0.86   1.76   2.97    3.02    3.07    3.11    3.16   3.21    3.25    3.30    3.35    3.39   3.44    3.48   3.48   3.48   3.48   3.48   3.48   3.48       Ul
Net Benefit:                                                __.
1. Water supply only  (1 86) (10.29) (4.64)  2.61    2.66    2.70   2.75   2.80   2.84    2.89    2.94   2.98    3.03   3.07   0.57   3.07   0.57   3.07   0.57   3.07          o
ERR  14.8%                                                                                                                                                       -
NPV (at 10%)  7.37                                                                                                                                                       Z
2. Water supply and   (3.26) (10.99) (4.64)  2.61    2.66    2.70   2.75    2.80   2.84    2.89    2.94   2.98   3.03    3.07   0.57   3.07   0.57   3.07   0.57   3.07         a
wastewater
ERR  13. 2%
NPV (at 10%)  5.52
Assumptiow16
1.    Investments include all applicable civil works, equipment, design and supervision but excludes taxes.
2.     The life of the investments are assumed to be 50 years with no residual value, while pumps and similar equipment are assumed to be replaced every 15 years (in the years 2015, 2030 and 2045)
at a cost of US$2.5 million, or 12 % of total isitial investments for water supply components.
3.    Annual incremental O&M costs are estimated at US$0.41 million or 2% of applicable investment costs for water supply component.
4.    Incremental revenue generated is based on existing price paid of US$1.32 per cubic meter of water. There is no direct charge for wastewater.
5.     As a direct result of O&M improvements supported by the project, unaccounted-for-water is assumed to decline by 1% annually form 39% in 1996 to 25% by 2010.
6.     At the completion of the project additional water production is projected to be 3.52 MCM per year.
7.    Cost and benefit streams for the wastewater component are excluded.



(US$ thousand unless otherwise indicated)
=....-'i. :'... '.'i.'..'
Water sold ('000 mn)            6,548     9,058    11,323    11,492   11,711   12,190   12,504   12,822   13,143   13,469   13,633   13,797   13,961   14,126
Plannted Investments Streanm:
Wastewater                            6,400    282400    21,700                                                         3 ,568   4,460 -,352    7,136 
Water Supply                         12,300    41,300    24,100                                                          800    1,000    1,200    1,600
Subtotal Investments    O    18 ,700    69,700    459,800      0        0        0       0        0        0    4,1368    5,460    6 ,552  81,7361
Projected Revenue Stream:                                                                                                                                                 _
1. Expenses:
Personnel                    309        309       309       339      372      408     570      592      619      643     659      676      692      709
O&M                          461        507       527       603      694      803    1,220    1,264    1,315    1,361    1,391    1,421    1,452    1,482
Others                        81         89        86        97      109      124      174     181      188      195     200      205      210      215
Subtotal Expenses    851      905       922      1,039    1,175    1,335    1,964    2,037    2,123    2,199    2,250   2,301   2,353    2,406              8
2. Debt Service:
Principal                                                                   8,947    8,947    8,947    8,947    8,947    8,947    8,947    8,947    8,947
Interest                              1,309     6,188      9,394    9,394    8,768    8,141    7,515    6,889   6,263    5,942    5,698    5,530    5,516
Subtotal Debt Service    0     1,309     6,188      9,394    9,394   17,714   17,088   16,462   15,836   15,209   14,889   14,645   14,477   14,462            t
3. Contribution to Iniestment                                                              874    1,092    1,310    1,747    2,184    2,621    3,000    3,000
4. Working Capital Requirement                                                                      500      900    1,100    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
Gross Revenue Needed              851     2,214      7,110    10,433   10,569   19.049   19,926   20,090   20,169   20,255   20,523   20,767   21,031   21,069
Gross Revenue Needed ($/m3)      0.13      0.24       0.63      0.91     0.90     1.56    1.59     1.57     1.53     1.50    1.51     1.51     1.51     1.49
Non-household sales (%)            20        20        20         21      22       23       24       25      26       27       28       29      30       31               1t
Non-household sales revenue     3,724     5,151      6,439     6,862    7,326    7.973    8,533    9,115    9,717   10,341   10,854   11,377   11,910   12,452           .0.
Avg. non-household tariff ($/m3)  2.84     2.84       2.84      2.84     2.84    2.84     2.84     2.84     2.84    2.84     2.84     2.84     2.84     2.84
Household sales revenue         1,490     4,121      6,439     7,099    7,792    8,675    9,458   10,254   11,062   11,882   12,560   13,231   13,895   13,857
Avg. household tariff ($/m')     0.28      0.57       0.71      0.78     0.85    0.92     1.00     1.07     1.14     1.21    1.28    1.35      1.42     1.42
Monthly household bill (US$)        3         8         13        14       15      16       17       18       19      20       21       22      23       22
Monthly household income (US$)    333       353       362        371     380      390      400      410     420      430      441     452      464      475
Monthly bill as % of HH income  0.9%       2.3%      3.6%      3.8%     3.9%     4.1%    4.3%     4.4%     4.5%     4.7%    4.8%     4.9%     5.0%     4.6%
Notes:
Details are presented in Project File (Annex I1).



(US$ thousand unless otherwise indicated)
Watersold ('000 m)                10,906    11,265    11,628   12,141   12,586   13,042   13,508   13,984   14,378   14,874   15,386   15,913   16,456   17,133
Planned Investments Stream:
Wastewater                      300       700          0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0
Water Supply                  2,400    11,300      6,900        0       0        0        0        0        0     412      412      412      412      412
Subtotal Investments  2,700    12,000      6,900        0       0        0        0        0        0      412     412      412      412       412
am
Projected Revenue Stream:
1. Expenses:
Personnel                      1,300     1,342     1,386    1,447    1,500    1,554    1,610    1,666    1,713    1,772    1,833    1,896    1,961    2,042             O
O&M                            1,674     1,729     1,784    1,863    1,931    2,001    2,073    2,146    2,206    2,283    2.361    2,442    2,525    2,629
Others                          715       738        762      796     825      855      885      917      943     975 _1,009    1,043    1,079    1,123
Subtotal Expenses   3,688      3.809     3,932    4,106    4,256    4,410    4,568    4,729    4,862    5,030    5,203    5,381    5,565    5,794
2. Debt Service:                                                                                                                                                             p
Principal                         0         0          0        0    1,440    1,440    1,440    1,440    1,440    1,440    1,440    1,440    1,440   1,440
Interest                        189   1  ,029      1,512    1,512    1,411    1,310    1,210    1,109    1,008    936      864      792      720      648                Z
Subtotal Debt Service    189      1,029     1,512    1,512    2,851    2,750    2,650    2,549    2,448    2,376    2,304   2,232    2,160    2,088
3. Contribution to Investment          0         0         0        0        0        0       82      82       82       82       82       82      73       300
4. Working Capital Requirement         0         0         0        0        0      200     300      600      800      800      600     800      700       700
Gross Revenue Needed               3,877     4,838     5,444    5,618    7,107    7,361    7,600    7,960    8,193    8,289    8,190    8,496    8,498    8,882
Gross Revenue Needed ($/m3)         0.36      0.43       0.47    0.46     0.56     0.56     0.56    0.57     0.57     0.56     0.53     0.53     0.52     0.52
Non-household sales (%)              2%        2%        2%       3%       3%       3%       4%      4%       4%       5%       5%       6%      7%        8%                r
Non-household sales revenue          128       128       128      128      128      128     128      128      128      128      128     128      128       128              PO.
Avg. non-household tariff ($/m3)    0.59      0.57      0.56     0.35     0.34     0.33     0.24     0.23    0.22     0.17     0.17     0.13     0.11     0.09
Household sales revenue            4,531     5,348      6,558    7,132    7,394    7,661    7,853    8,130    8,359    8,558    8,852    9,059    9,268    9.546
Avg. household tariff ($/m3)        0.42      0.48       0.58    0.61     0.61     0.61     0.61    0.61     0.61     0.61     0.61     0.61    0.61      0.61               >
Monthly household bill (US$)          9         11        13       13       14       14       14      14       14       14       14       14      14        14
Monthly household income (US$)      308        316       323      321      340      348     357      366      375      384      394     404      414      '424               t
Monthly bill as % of HH income     3.0%      3.3%       3.9%    4.0%     4.0%     3.9%     3.8%     3.8%     3.7%    3.6%     3.5%     3.5%     3.4%     3.3%
Notes:
Details are presented in Project File (Annex 11).
N



Co
(USS thousand unless otherwise indicated)
...._                                ,_                                    ,. 2                             . 2 00.   2 00........  ..........  1.......
Water sold ('000 m )             7,423     8,145      8,710     8,885    9,183    9,041    9,394    9,629   10,003   10,326   10,413   10,780   11,160   11,553
Planned Investments Stream:
Wastewater                      0      6,900    16,100    16,300        0        0        0        0        0        0     360      450      540      720
Water Supply                    0      2,611     3,634         0        0        0        0        0        0       0        16      20       24       32
Subtotal Investments    0      9,511    19,734    16,300        0        0        0        0        0        0      376     470      564      752               so
Projected Revenue Stream:
1. EXPenses:                                                                                                                                                                 _
Personnel                     734      1,021     1,035      1,050    1,066    1,091    1,167    1,196    1,237    1,274    1,288    1,326    1,366    1,408
O&M                         1,633      2,063     2,433      2,559    2,694    2,838    3,016    3,090    3,198    3,294    3,328    3,429    3,533    3.640
Others                        202       248        249       250      252      257      287      294      305      315      318     329      340       351
Subtotal Expenses   2,569    3,332     3,717      3,859    4,012    4,186    4,470    4,581    4,741    4,884    4,934    5,084    5,239    5,399
2. Debt Service:
Principal                       0         0          0         0        0        0    3,036    3.036    3,036    3,036    3,036    3,036    3,036    3,036               r
Interest                        0       666      2,047      3,188    3.188    3,188    2,976    2,763    2,551    2,338    2,152    1,972    1,799    1,639             "
Subtotal Debt Service    0       666      2,047      3,188    3,188    3,188    6,012    5,799    5,587    5,374    5,188    5,008    4,835    4,675             e
3. Contribution to Investment        0         0         0          0        0        0        0      75       94      113      150      188      226      194                0
CA
4. Working Capital Requirement       0         0         0          0        0        0        0     200      700    1,100    1,400    1,800    2,200    2,700 1
Gross Revenue Needed             2,569     3,997      5,764     7,047    7,200    7,374   10,482   10,655   11,122   11,471   11,673   12,081   12,500   12,969
Gross Revenue Needed ($/m3)       0.35      0.49       0.66      0.79     0.78     0.82     1.12     1.11     1.11     1.11    1.12     1.12     1.12      1.12
Non-household sales (%)           20%       20%        20%       20%      20%      20%      20%      20%     20%      20%      20%      20%      20%      20%                O
Non-household sales revenue      2,287     2,509      2,683     2,737    2,829    2,785    2,894    2,966    3,082    3,181   3,208    3,321    3,438    3,559               eD
Avg. non-household tariff ($/m3)  1.54      1.54       1.54      1.54     1.54     1.54     1.84     1.54     1.54     1.54     1.54    1.54     1.54      1.54
Household sales revenue          1,220     2,677      5,009     5,839    7,544    7,427    7.717    7,910    8,218    8,483    8,554    8,855    9,167    9,481              >
Avg. household tariff ($/m3)      0.21      0.41       0.72      0.82     1.03     1.03     1.03     1.03     1.03     1.03     1.03    1.03     1.03      1.03
Monthly household bill (US$)        4          8         15        17       22       21      21       21       21       22       21       21       22       22
Monthly household income (US$)    407        431       442        453      465      476      488     500      513      526      539      552      566      580
Monthly bill as % of HH income   1.0%       1.9%      3.4%      3.8%     4.7%     4.4%     4.3%     4.2%     4.2%     4.1%     3.9%    3.9%     3.8%      3.8%                        ;5
Notes:
Details are presented in Project File (Annex 11).



(US$ thousand unless otherwise indicated)
Water sold ('000 me)            5,576    5,957    7,034    7,383    7,636    7,936    8,246    8,623    9,015    9,299    9,627   10,092   10,448   10,816
Planned Investments Stream:
Wastewater                     0    2,600   12,800    7,600       0       0        0        0       0        0      400      500     600      800
Water Supply                   0    3,541    4,930       0        0       0        0        0       0        0      920    1,150    1,380    1,840                  TI
Subtotal Investments   0    6,141   17,730    7,600       0        0       0        0        0       0    1,320    1,650    1,980    2,640
Proiected Revenue Stream:
1. Expenses:
Personnel                    734    1,021    1,035    1,050    1,066      0    1,167    1,241    1,321    1,394    1,529    1,701    1,891    2,117
O&M                         1,233    1,570    1,824    1,917    2,018    1,091    2,266    2,413    2,571    2,718    2,991    3,340    3,728    4,191
Others                       202      248     249      250      252     257      287      302     318      330      349      374     398      425
Subtotal Expenses  2,168    2,839    3,108    3,217    3,336    3,474    3,720    3,956    4,210    4,442    4,870    5,416    6,017    6,733
2. Debt Service:                                                                                                                                                       t
Principal                      0       0        0        0        0    2,098    2,098    2,098    2,098    2,098    2,098    2,098    2,098    2,098               p
Interest                       0      430    1,671    2,203    2,203    2,056    1,909    1,762   1,1616    1,469    1,414    1,383    1,375    1,412              O
Subtotal Debt Service   0      430    1,671    2,203    2,203    4,154    4,007    3,860    3,714    3,567    3,512    3,481    3,473    3,511
3. Contribution to Investment      0        0        0       0        0        0       0      264      330      396     528      660      792      330                 C
4. Working Capital Requirement     0        0        0       0        0        0     200      300      600      800     800      600      800      700                 C
Gross Revenue Needed            2,168    3,269    4,779    5,420    5,539    7,628    7,927    8,381   8,853    9,205    9,710   10,157   11,081   11,274
Gross Revenue Needed ($/m3)      0.39    0.55     0.68     0.73    0.73     0.96     0.96    0.97     0.98     0.99     1.01    1.01     1.06     1.04
Non-household sales (Y)          10%     10%      10%      10%     10%      10%      10%     10%      10%      10%     10%      11%      12%      13%
Non-household sales revenue     1,332    1,423    1,681    1,764    1.825    1,896    1,970   2,061    2,154    2,222    2,300    2,653    2,996    3,360              E
Avg. non-household tariff ($/m3)  2.39   2.39     2.39     2.39    2.39     2.39     2.39    2.39     2.39     2.39    2.39     2.39     2.39     2.39
Household sales revenue          959    2,050    3,630    5,081    6,569    6,827    7,093    7,418    7,755    7,999    8,281    8,585    8,788    8,994
Avg. household tariff ($/m3)    0.19     0.38     0.57     0.76    0.96     0.96     0.96    0.96     0.96     0.96    0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96
Monthly household bill (USS)       2        4        8      10       13       13       13      14       14       14      14       14       14       14
Monthly household income (US$)   290      308      316     323      331      340     348      357      366     375      384      394     404       414
Monthly bill as % of HH income  0.7%     1.4%    2.4%     3.2%      3.9      3.9   3.8%      3.8%    3.8%     3.7%     3.7%    3.6%     3.5%     3.4%
Notes:
Details are presented in Project File (Annex 11).



I



Annex 11
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1.    Feasibility studies for:
(a)    Kesrouan Water Supply and Wastewater and with a separate report prepared for
Kesrouan Water Supply;
(b)    Saida Water Supply and Wastewater;
(c)    Sour Water Supply and Wastewater; and
(d)    Nabatiye Water Supply and Wastewater.
2.    Terms of References for engineering design for wastewater for Kesrouan, Saida and Sour.
3 .    Environmental Assessments:
(a)    For the sub-project areas of Kesrouan, Saida, Sour and Nabatiye;
(b)    Environmental assessment summary;
(c)    Terms of references for environmental monitoring; and
(d)    Environment code.
4.     Sector Reforms:
(a)    Sector Policy and Strategy Paper;
(b)    Draft Law;
(c)    Terms of references for technical assistance;
(d)    Terms of references for institutional specialist; and
(e)    Council of Ministers decrees for the establishment of regional water, irrigation and
sanitation authorities.
5.    TORs for Operation and Maintenance and Training services.
6.    Financial Analysis Data for the four sub-project areas.



I



35'30'                                          \    36o00                                                36 30
1')
LEBANON
COASTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                    / Holbo           '            koJ
34'30'                                                                                                                                                               34 30 --
, .  'NY0Zh9,Od         T  /iN,i 111   1! j           /HerrmeI  S J             j
)         N(CO)RT k0 L EBANON A                              N 0 N
J ~   ~     ~    y '( _=--S         0n--  j'           oY ,-N
Me l i t e r r a nean                                                              e aT   n  '                      ,'                   10 .)
Sea                                                                                                                   R
Jb0l              JbEI                                                               <
2   Ib,_  '-    r   _                    r~~~~~~,4I l hC~  'N      ^ 
&Taborio          M  O U NT JB/ ooIbeI,
-3400T'                                                     KESROUAN          L E B A N O0                                                ,                          34 00-
Jounleh   _y2\  ~~~S/  <<v B El K A A, 
BEIRUT              El E/srf l   EL MATNE      >              /          f'
BEIR                    o
BEIR             ->~~~''~~TA'ABDA 
Boobdo' .X5.J   50 El ,M        /   Zohleh(      /    RoyoL  ,'     .
)   ~~~  oAgLY               _ 7 7AHI XH
0OKholde o7h o I ,t >           < 0 
S    )d          t ~    )   IKooo                                       / <  1~
(             Ee~~~08it evln                         l
| OJIeh    i EL 6F1 tsJf .- >  /   \ofPOPOSD)PRJECTAREA
S      o i do             r> PsK3aP A                                                    -    PROPOSED SUBMARINE OUTFALLS
TAIDAX   y'N  Jezzioe >/   0$ .Deir El                                            -..oi ,  PROPOSED WASTEWATER
0'~~~~-     9   )Dei~ E~ A n~o~                                      TREATMENT PLANTS
33'30'                        /o o r_      c          /                           C                                                                                 33 30'
/                       Sorbo/ Irgr t  %>>/   /NATIONAL CAPITAL
  GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) CAPITALS
Y-  \    76 n   544              ~     t      /o0    SELECTED CITIES
k    /  \_  NABATIYE     I    HASBA/YA      /                                 --    BOUNDARIES OF CAZAS
/    " A,,                    M.bob \(      Moryoo                                       -     BOUNDARIES OF GOVERNORATES
s       TIJ-rH                    N         _                                       -  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/   441        /+Zt < _                )        |                     - VWATERCOURSES
Sorou Rr    h:IY(gI I
.c,    SOUR           /.Y^ 
I      J Tibnim \, 
B RIT   JB5il   f   !   0  5     10    15    20   25    KILO M ETERS  Th, r - 1, ' Op T o O by   F,   M o,p o gp9  V o, l O f o ,Id8o n
/                   0 O         S                S1MIlES           pnldses  shlgfurooye-r o, onedo,,,en                      i
0         1                                                                       op,o,1h0o,dooe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U 1
Z.   -_.p.- I _. .'  r '                                                                                                      -  G
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          0        15mts- ~ 25 2  205                                        03
__________                                                                        ___1_ Iv             _      _ 00        J6 10                  ,









IMAGING
Report No:      15035 LE
Type: SAR



