Report No. PIC811
Project Name                   Lebanon-Coastal Pollution Control  r@c N
and Water Supply Project
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Water Supply and Wastewater
Project ID                     LBPA5342
Borrower                       Lebanese Republic
Implementing Agency            Council for Development and Reconstruction
(CDR), (Tallet Al-Saray, Beirut, Lebanon.
Fax 961-1-647-947,
contact: Mr. Nabil A. El-Jisr,
President); Ministry of Hydraulics &
Electrical Resources (MHER), (Beirut,
Lebanon. Fax 961-1-449-639,
contact: H.E. Mr. Elie Hobeika,
Minister).
Environmental Category         A
Date this PID                  January 22, 1997
Date Initial PID               February 25, 1994
Appraisal Date                 June 1995
Board Date           February 18,1997
A.   Country and Sector Background
1.   Lebanon, which had been a prosperous middle-income country in the
mid 1970s, is recovering from the devastation caused by 15 years of
violent civil strife and military occupation. Extensive damage to
physical assets has occurred, both as a direct result of the war, as
well as through the accumulated effects of disruption in capital
investment and maintenance. By the end of the war public and social
services were either non-existent or of poor quality: only about one
third of power capacity was operating; water supply systems were
suffering from contamination and significant water losses; wastewater
collection and disposal systems were in disrepair and inadequate in
their coverage; and most schools and hospitals were damaged. To redress
this situation, the Government embarked upon a National Emergency
Reconstruction Program (NERP), which envisaged investments in the range
of US$1 billion for rehabilitation and extension of water supply and
wastewater collection and disposal facilities. Nearly three-quarters of
this program is in the infrastructure sectors, to which Government
accords a high priority in order to provide a clean and healthy
environment for Lebanon's inhabitants and to attract business and
tourism, which are essential to the Country's economic development.
B.   Objectives
2.   The objectives of the project are to:   (i) improve sanitary and
environmental conditions in three major urban areas of the coastal zone,



covering a population of about 0.7 million; (ii) extend water supply and
wastewater services in selected areas; (iii) reduce groundwater and
surface water pollution; (iv) reduce sea pollution to restore beaches
for recreational use; (v) ensure satisfactory operation and maintenance
of equipment installed or rehabilitated under the NERP; and (vi)
restructure the sector to achieve improved services through commercial
operation and increased private sector participation.
C.   Description
3.   The project consists of the following major components:    (i)
extension and rehabilitation of water supply facilities in the Kesrouan
and Nabatiye, and wastewater collection and disposal systems in the
Kesrouan, Saida, Sour and Nabatiye sub-project areas; (ii) operation,
maintenance and training services country-wide, for mechanical and
electrical equipment installed or rehabilitated under the NERP; (iii)
operation and maintenance equipment and office facilities for the
proposed five regional water authorities, or successor regional water
and sanitation companies, and operational equipment for environmental
monitoring; and (iv) consultant services and technical assistance for:
the establishment and development of sector institutions at national and
regional levels, including management contracts; environmental
monitoring; project management; and engineering, construction
supervision and performance auditing.
4.   The water supply components include extension and rehabilitation of
water sources and treatment works, transmission mains, storage
reservoirs, pumping stations and distribution mains. The wastewater
components include extension and rehabilitation of secondary networks,
interceptors and trunk mains, pumping stations and treatment works, and
sub-marine outfall mains.
D.   Financing
5.   Total project costs are estimated at US$308 million.    A proposed
IBRD loan of US$53.1 million equivalent will be presented to the Board
by mid-February 1997. The Government has been assured financing from
the European Investment Bank (EIB) in an amount of US$62 million
equivalent, the Japanese Government (OECF) in an amount of US$124
million equivalent, and the European Union (EU) in an amount of US$3.2
million equivalent with an additional US$13.8 million equivalent
proposed to be negotiated later. The Government will finance the
remaining costs of US$51.9 million equivalent, and in case the
additional US$13.8 million equivalent from EU will not materialize, this
will be financed through a Government contribution. For the IBRD-
financed project components, retroactive financing corresponding to 5
percent of the loan amount, or US$2.6 million equivalent, is proposed
for expenditures made after December 1, 1996, and prior to loan signing.
E.   Implementation
6.   The project management and monitoring systems established for the
ongoing Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) will
basically be maintained. The sector implementation unit, or its
successor, will continue to perform the project management function
-2 -



directly reporting to the MHER and coordinating with the CDR, which will
perform a role as overall coordinator and planner including specific
functions on procurement and disbursements such as entering into
contracts and effecting payments. The contractor(s) for the provision
of operation, maintenance and training services, will report directly to
the Director General for Operations of the MHER. To manage the process
of sector reforms an institutional specialist will be appointed to
report to a Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of MHER. A
reporting system has been established including performance monitoring
indicators. A mid-term project review will be carried out before July
1, 1999. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
F.   Sustainability
7.   Sector restructuring, which is to be assisted by the project, would
establish regional authorities/companies to operate and maintain water
supply and wastewater systems throughout the country. These
authorities/companies would be financially independent, and could be
initially operated through private sector management contracts, which
would ensure sufficient cost recovery to achieve financial viability.
This would also ensure satisfactory operation and maintenance of the
assets to be created.
G.   Poverty Category
8.   The project is not part of a core poverty program but will include
areas where poverty is acute. It will have a beneficial impact on poor
households, which are sometimes forced to purchase water from vendors at
relatively high prices. Improved water quality and sanitation will have
a positive impact on reduction of water related diseases, which mostly
affect the poor.
H.   Lessons Learned
9.   Bank lending to Lebanon has resumed only in 1993, and there are no
projects that have been completed. The main lesson from ongoing
operations is the need to improve project management capacity and
coordination among sector authorities and lending agencies.
Strengthening operation and maintenance capacity is also becoming
increasingly necessary, as new or rehabilitated water supply and
wastewater works are commissioned.
I.   Environmental Aspects
10. The project has been placed in environmental screening category ±A+
consistent with the provision of Operational Directive 4.01.
Environmental Assessments (EAs) were prepared for the water supply and
wastewater facilities for each sub-project area. Public consultation
meetings have been held with information collected and opinions
expressed incorporated into the project concept. Proposed mitigation
measures address: impacts relating to project design and the siting and
routing of facilities; short-term impacts during construction; and
long-term impacts during operations. The proposed environmental
monitoring plan will, for each sub-project area, cover: (i) physical
oceanographic measurements (ii) seawater chemical analyses; (iii)
- 3 -



bathing water quality for beaches adjacent to the sea outfalls; and (iv)
potential impact on fish, benthic and shellfish in proximity to the sea
outfalls. Monitoring will commence prior to construction of the sea
outfalls and continue during the periods of construction and subsequent
operations. An analysis of the results will then determine the timing
for a later extension for improved waste water treatment. An
environmental monitoring plan will be prepared before May 1, 1998. The
process of land acquisition has commenced and a resettlement plan for
the small number of people affected has been agreed to.
J.   Project Benefits
11. The project will reduce existing wastewater pollution and restore
beaches for recreational use; improve environmental and health
conditions; and help protect water resources and provide safe drinking
water. It will assist in restructuring the sector by combining the
services of water supply with wastewater collection and disposal into
regional authorities/companies. The project will also help ensure
satisfactory operational maintenance of equipment installed under the
ongoing NERP.
K.   Project Risks
12. The project faces two major risks in addition to potential
political instability in the region. The establishment of regional
companies, which depends on legislative action, could be delayed and
thus affect needed improvements in operational performance. Political
pressure regarding tariff adjustments could impede regional
authorities/companies from becoming financially viable. However,
taking into account that there is an urgent need to reduce pollution and
provide basic water supply and sanitation services, and that the
Government is fully committed to restructure the sector to ensure
service quality and financial viability, the risks are considered
acceptable. Furthermore, to reduce direct political influence on
tariffs, institutional reforms supported by the project include the
establishment of the FRC for tariff review and approval.
Contact Point             Lars Rasmusson, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone no.: (202) 473 3065
Fax no.   (202) 477 0348
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 31, 1997.
- 4 -



