Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4136-LE
Project Agreement
(Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
Dated September 12, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4136-LE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND 
RECONSTRUCTION (CDR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Lebanese 
Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to six billion Japanese Yen (¥6,000,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CDR agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CDR the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to CDR on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS CDR in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CDR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, resettlement and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and CDR shall otherwise agree, CDR shall carry out the Project 
in accor\1fdance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) CDR shall carry out the obliga\1ftions set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
CDR shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) 
months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and CDR, a 
plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with CDR on said plan.
Section 2.04. CDR shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CDR shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CDR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CDR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by CDR of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. \0c
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CDR
Section 3.01. CDR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, resettlement and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. CDR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CDR shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
CDR shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than nine (9) months after the end of 
each 
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such 
year as so audited and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well 
as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CDR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CDR thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  4
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For CDR:
P.O. Box 116-5351
Beirut, Lebanon
Cable address:
Telex:
CDR, Tallet El-Seray 
42490CDR LE
Beirut, Lebanon 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CDR, or by CDR 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the 
President of CDR or such other person or persons as CDR shall designate in writing, 
and CDR shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT
  AND RECONSTRUCTION
By /s/ Mohammed Chatah
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Page  5
1.
Except as provided in Part C to this Schedule, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
the invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent  each; or (b) contracts for the 
Page  6
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Schedule 2 
Implementation Program
1.
Project Management
CDR shall at all times have the overall responsibility for managing and 
implementing the Project, including responsibility for the procurement and 
disbursement processes under the Project, the maintenance of Project accounts, the 
award and supervision of contracts, and the employment of consultants. 
2.
Landsites
(a)
CDR shall, not later than December 31, 1997, make available for the 
start-up of work, all landsites required for the implementation of the Project, with a 
view to finalizing the acquisition of such sites within a reasonable time thereafter; 
and
(b)
With respect to the acquisition of the landsite for the Sour wastewater 
treatment plant, CDR shall carry out the Resettlement Plan in a manner acceptable to 
the Bank. 
3.
Environmental Monitoring Plan
CDR shall, not later than May 1, 1998, furnish to the Bank an environmental 
monitoring plan acceptable to the Bank and ensure that such plan is implemented in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
4.
Progress Reports
CDR shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review quarterly reports on 
progress in the carrying out of the Project, including a review of the Performance 
Indicators. 
5.
Mid-term Review
CDR shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on a continuous basis, in accordance with Performance Indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than January 1, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (1) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, not later than July 1, 1999, or such later date as 
may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the said report, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter. 
Page  7
