Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4136-LE
Loan Agreement
(Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project)
between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 12, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4136-LE 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1997, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Council for Development and 
Reconstruction (CDR) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to CDR the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; 
(C)
to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower intends to 
contract: (i) from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) a loan (the 
OECF Loan) in an amount of thirteen billion twenty two million Japanese Yen 
(¥13,022,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF; (ii) from the 
European Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount of fifty million 
European Currency Units (ECU50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EIB; 
and (iii) from the European Union (EU) a grant in an amount of two million five 
hundred thirty thousand European Currency Units (ECU2,530,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the EU Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
Page  2
between the Borrower and EU; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CDR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of 
the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after  consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during 
the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, 
and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
or (d) at 
any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures 
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, 
an amount of the 
Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the 
Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 
with 
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the 
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and CDR of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CDR pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
(c)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
“CDR” means the Council for Development and Reconstruction, a public 
authority established and operating pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 5 of the 
Borrower, dated January 31, 1977, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)
“CDR's Basic Legislation” means Legislative Decree No. 5 of the Borrower, 
dated January 31, 1977, as the same may be amended from time to time, Decree No. 433 
of the Borrower, dated September 19, 1977, as the same may be amended from time to 
Page  3
time, and Decree No. 2981 of the Borrower, dated May 9, 1980, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
(f)
“Central Bank” means Banque du Liban, the Borrower's central bank, 
established and operating pursuant to the Money and Credit Law promulgated by Decree 
No. 13513 of the Borrower, dated August 1, 1963, as the same may be amended from time 
to time; 
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on January 1 
and ending on December 31;
(h)
“MHER” means the Ministry of Hydraulic and Electric Resources of the 
Borrower;
(i)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in paragraphs 4 
and 5 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and set forth in a supplemental letter of 
even date herewith;
(j)
“SIU” means the Sector Implementation Unit established within MHER 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of the Loan Agreement, entered into 
between the Borrower and the Bank (Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation 
Project), dated March 8, 1993, as amended, whose responsibilities include, inter alia, 
supervising the implementation of projects in the water and wastewater sectors;
(k)
“Resettlement Plan” means the resettlement plan approved by CDR on 
December 13, 1996, to be carried out by CDR in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 
2 to the Project Agreement; 
(l)
“RWAs” means the Regional Water Authorities for: (a) North Lebanon 
established pursuant to Decree No. 9627, dated December 26, 1996; (b) Beirut and Mount 
Lebanon, established pursuant to Decree No. 9626, dated December 26, 1996; (c) North 
Beka’a, established pursuant to Decree No. 9629, dated December 26, 1996; (d) South 
Beka’a, established pursuant to Decree No. 9628, dated January 9, 1997; and (e) South 
Lebanon, established pursuant to Decree No. 9630, dated January 9, 1997, to be 
responsible for the supply of water, the extension of waste water services and, where 
applicable, the supply of water for individual irrigation schemes in the respective 
regions they cover; and
(m)
“Japanese Yen” and “¥” each means the lawful currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to six 
billion Japanese Yen (¥6,000,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Sched\1fule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 
the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the 
initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest 
Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Japanese Yen for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, 
in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or 
plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered 
rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. CDR is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause CDR to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of CDR therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable CDR to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
Page  5
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available as a grant the proceeds of the Loan to 
CDR under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CDR.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CDR 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B, C and E of the 
Project, continue to maintain the SIU and any other successor unit with members whose 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank, to 
provide assistance to CDR in carrying out their respective Project implementation 
functions.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall establish, not later than January 1, 2000, a 
program for the control of the discharge of industrial toxic and other harmful 
effluents into the public wastewater collection system and ensure thereafter the 
compliance by industries therewith.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1998, submit to its 
Parliament a draft law, acceptable to the Bank, reforming the water and wastewater 
sector, including the creation of regional water, wastewater and irrigation companies, 
a finance regulatory commission, and the development of MHER into a national authority 
for policy setting, advisory services and investment planning.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate 
Page  6
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than nine (9) months after the end of 
each 
such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the RWA for Beirut and Mount Lebanon, 
and the RWA for South Lebanon, and their respective successor companies to be 
established pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement, to maintain, for the Fiscal 
Year 1999 and thereafter, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the authorities and their successor companies 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income, expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than nine (9) months after the end of 
each 
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such 
year as so audited and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements and the 
audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Article V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CDR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CDR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
CDR’s Basic Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CDR to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CDR or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
The OECF or the EIB Loan Agreement or the EU Grant Agreement shall have 
failed to become effective by June 1, 1998, or such later date as the Bank may agree; 
Page  7
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
 (i)
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of any part of the OECF or the EIB Loan or the EU Grant 
shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
the OECF or the EIB Loan shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; 
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of sub-paragraph (f) (ii) of that 
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and CDR.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CDR 
and is legally binding upon CDR in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and CDR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CDR in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
Page  8
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Beirut, Lebanon
Telex:
923.235.13
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Mohammed Chatah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in 
 Expenditures
Category
Japanese Yen)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
3,277,000,000
85%
Page  9
(2)
Goods
  532,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local ex-
penditures for other 
items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’
  260,000,000        100%
services
(4)
O & M services
1,243,000,000
50%
 (5)
Unallocated
  688,000,000
       _____________
TOTAL
       6,000,000,000
       =============
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “O & M services” means service contracts, for the operation and 
maintenance of such equipment and facilities installed or rehabilitated in the water 
and wastewater sector as agreed with the Bank, including the procurement of 
consumables and spare parts, as well as training of staff. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
¥294,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after December 1, 1996. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works and goods under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent for goods, $100,000 equivalent for services with 
consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent for services with individual consultants, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving 
sanitary and environmental conditions; (ii) reducing the sea, ground and surface water 
pollution; and (iii) initiating the commercial operation of the water and wastewater 
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply Facilities
Extension and rehabilitation of water sources, water treatment works and water 
networks, including the construction of storage reservoirs and pumping stations, and 
supply and installation of transmission and distribution mains.
Part B:
Wastewater Facilities
Page  10
Extension and rehabilitation of wastewater networks, interceptors and trunk 
mains, treatment works and pumping stations, and submarine outfall mains. 
Part C:
Regional Water Authorities 
1.
Provision of operational and maintenance equipment, environmental monitoring 
equipment and office facilities for the RWAs and their successor companies to be 
established pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement.  
2.
Strengthening the institutional capacities of the RWAs through the provision of 
operation and maintenance services, as well as training.
Part D:
Institutional Reform in the Water and Wastewater Sector 
1.
Assisting MHER in restructuring the sector through the provision of technical 
and managerial assistance to the RWAs, and their respective successor companies to be 
established pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement. 
2.
Assisting in the strengthening and restructuring of MHER and the establishment, 
pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement, of a regulatory finance commission, 
including the provision of technical and managerial assistance.
Part E:
Project Implementation
Assisting MHER and CDR in project management, environmental monitoring, 
engineering, construction supervision and auditing.
*  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Japanese Yen)
On each November and May
beginning November 15, 2002
through May 15, 2014
250,000,000
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of ¥227,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  11
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
 (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  12
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
