                                                                                                                    93814
                                                                                                              February 10, 2012
In Turkey: Small Grants, Big Motivation
Tunya Celasin, Sr Communications Officer in the World Bank
Ankara Office, offers this story.
                                                                    Photo Gallery
The grants are relatively small, only around $4,000 to a
primary school, up to $30,000 for a high school. But
educators say, they are crucial for improving Turkey's
education system, and for getting more children into the
classroom.

Smart boards for smart students

In Emirdag, Turkey, eighth graders at the Azizye Basic
Education School use smart boards to learn the history of the       Related Links
Turkish revolution. They say they like this new, interactive
way of learning.                                                    World Bank Turkey Country website
                                                                    Undersecretariat of Treasury
Sadettin Camci is an 8TH grader at Azizye. "How I wish every
school in the country could have this. Every kid could learn        KAGIDER
from this. Sometimes we learn by watching, sometimes by             Ministry of National Education
feeling, sometimes by hearing, sometimes by experiment."
                                                                    Secondary Education Project
                                                                    Documents
His classmate, Fatmagul Keskin, agrees. "We learn all of our
main courses this way, especially science, math, technology,
history and English, all are taught to us in this hands-on way."

Targeting less wealthy areas

                         Emirdag is several hundred kilometers outside of Ankara. The city is heavily
                         reliant on remittance money from Turkish workers in Belgium. And some
                         families here are struggling—student enrollment at many schools here is below
                         90 percent.

                         With support from the World Bank, schools in poorer areas, with less than 90
                         percent enrollment, are eligible for small grants. 10 percent of Turkey's schools
                         receive them.
Fatmagul Keskin
                       The grants are designed, first and foremost, to raise enrollments. But they also
aim to get the community involved in schooling, and they bring decision-making to the local level.

Local control

The schools decide how to use the money, which runs from $4,000 to nearly $30,000. Some use the
money on buildings. The local health school paid to convert an old hospital into its school building.

Some schools invest in new computer centers, which are open to the public after school hours. Some
use the money to offer Turkish culture classes, or even to build a basketball court. The basketball court
has spawned a competitive girls' team, which is a great source of school pride.

                         What's different is that local school administrators, after much consultation with
                         students, parents and teachers, decide how to spend the money.

                         "It is great to be able to buy the things you need, it gives you great freedom,
                         especially if it is for education," says Elvan Durmaz, the principal of the Hatun
                         Anadolu Vocational Health High School.

                       And, in a change from centralized control, the Ministry of National Education
Elvan Durmaz           agrees. Unal Akyuz, of the Ministry in Ankara, says "The people at the schools
                       in the provinces know better than we do what they need. The schools make the
decisions depending on their needs."
The city benefits

                       In the city of Emirdag, 40 schools got grants, directly affecting 6,047 students
                       and 367 teachers. But that's only the start. School administrators say the
                       improvements are good for the entire city.

                       "What we achieved is a chain reaction. In town, we gained so much from the
                       infrastructure point of view, as well as technology and socially. The whole
                       community benefits," says Emel Kercin, who runs the school development
                       project in Emirdag.
Emel Kercin
                        New grounds and new classes, basketball teams and judo classes are ways to
raise enrollment. And school administrators acknowledge that they are important. But, they say, what
also matters is a sense of community ownership and inclusion that comes from local solutions to local
problems.
