                                                                                                                       93813
                                                                                                                February 10, 2012
In Turkey: Focusing on What Children Learn
Tunya Celasin, Sr Communications Officer in the World Bank
Ankara Office, offers this story.
                                                                    Photo Gallery
In the past decade, Turkey has made great progress in
getting its children—both girls and boys—enrolled in primary
school. But now the quality of that education is coming under
scrutiny.

Research shows that Turkish teenagers are behind their
counterparts in other comparable countries.

Gender parity is not enough
                                                                    Related Links
Turkey has had great success in raising enrollments,
especially of girls, in the last ten years. The country has also    The World Bank in Turkey
succeeded in getting more children into school earlier; a
                                                                    Undersecretariat of Treasury
massive public campaign advising parents that "Seven is Too
Late" to begin school has boosted the number of kids in the         Ministry of National Education
country's Kindergartens.                                            Secondary Education Project

                         Now the issue is more complicated.         Mother-Child Education Foundation
                                                                    Education Reform Initiative
                         "Our main challenge today is making
                         sure the education is the right one.
                         Are we teaching kids what they need to know?" asks Ayla Goksel, who runs the
                         Mother and Child Education Foundation in Istanbul. "Are we teaching kids what
                         they need to know to survive in the workforce and also thrive in life? I think that
                         is the next great challenge we face."She says the philosophy behind Turkish
Ayla Goksel              education needs to evolve, from rote memorization to critical thinking and
                         reasoning skills.

Focusing on the big picture

                         With support from the World Bank, Turkey is tackling education policy. One
                         priority is better training and better pay for teachers. Another is a focus on early
                         childhood education. Yet another is curriculum reform. Overcrowding and the
                         gap in the quality of education between richer and poorer areas, city and
                         country, are also issues.

                         These issues raise larger questions about how Turkey wants to shape its future
                         workforce.
Bathuhan Aydagul
                         Some educators see Turkish students on the world's stage, and want to prepare
them to take their place in a global market. They are pushing for curriculum reform; for classes that
focus on ideas and on problem solving.

Turkey's Ministry of National Education is one of those pushing for change. "What we need is not
students who memorize, but students who can discover knowledge around the world, and use that
knowledge," says the Ministry's Unal Akyuz.

Turkish students lag behind

Research shows that the average Turkish 15 year old is one full year behind his or her counterpart in
other, similar countries. And the quality of education is uneven across Turkey. City schools tend to be
stronger. More affluent children tend to go to better schools and perform better once there.

And the early grades are crucial for everyone. Failure to learn in primary school can dog students for the
rest of their lives.

"For the first time in the last eight years I heard a minister describe the problem correctly. He said we
can‘t teach our kids. And we have to improve our teachers," says Bathuhan Aydagul, who heads the
Education Reform Initiative.

Valuing learning

Surveys show that Turks value education and believe it ought to be the government's highest priority. Of
all the countries in the Europe and Central Asia region, only Tajikistan's population ranks education as a
higher priority than do Turks.

                        A self-described housewife who lives outside Ankara, Nesrin Coban supports
                        education for her two girls, who are both in primary school. She also supports it
                        for herself.

                        "Me, I dropped out of school in the 10th grade. But I got my diploma last year. I
                        am 31 years old but I don't care, I plan to apply to college."

                        She expects her daughters to do the same. And they need a strong basic
Nesrin Coban            education to help them do it.
