Report No. PIC4646
Project Name                   West Bank and Gaza-Legal Development...
Project
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Institutional Development
Project ID                     XOPA47111
Borrower                       The Palestine Liberation Organization
(PLO) for the Benefit of the
Palestinian Authority (PA)
Implementing Agency            The Ministry of Justice of the PA
(MOJ) and the Palestinian Judiciary
Date this PID revised          January 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       February 1997
Projected Board Date           March 1997
Background
The Declaration of Principles and subsequent agreements between the
Government of the State of Israel and the PLO, cuinating in the signing
of the Interim Agreement on September 28, 1995 (collectively, the Peace
Accords), have ushered in a new era in Israeli-Palestinian relations
and, in so doing, have laid out a framework for a staged resolution of
a long-standing conflict.
After twenty-seven years of Israeli military occupation, governance in
the West Bank and the Gaza Strip (WBG) is being gradually handed over to
the Palestinians. The Peace Accords have established a complex structure
of governance which, in essence, divides WBG into three areas, each of
which featuring a different degree of Palestinian self-rule.
The confusion deriving from the jurisdictional division of the West
Bank, and the resulting multiplicity of applicable legal regimes, is
compounded by the initial duality in legal regimes in the West Bank and
the Gaza Strip which prevents the application of a uniform set of laws
across territories under Palestinian jurisdiction.
The existing legal frameworks in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip are
generally recognized as not fully adequate to support a market economy,
let alone a modern one. Not having kept pace with developments in the
global markets, many of the laws in the WBG are in need of modernization
and would constrain the ability of domestic firms to achieve regional,
let alone international, competitiveness. The laws are somewhat
antiquated. In the West Bank, no modernization of economic, business and
financial laws has taken place since 1967. The situation in the Gaza
Strip is worse. There, economic, business and financial laws are deemed
generally inadequate in the context of modern commercial and financial
transactions. Moreover, the two legal frameworks differ from one another
and are fraught by a lack of regulations in crucial economic areas such
as banking, insurance and capital markets.



Impediments to a modern market economy are not only found at the written
law level but also at the dispute resolution, enforcement institutions
and human resource levels, and all aspects of the rule of law and
administration of justice. The judiciary in WBG is plagued by many an
aient, chief among which are a lack of independence (there is no
constitution or basic law guaranteeing the principle of separation of
powers), outdated procedures and management systems, inadequate
facilities, understaffing and a shortage of qualified judges and
financial resources. The Intifada years (1987-1993) had a devastating
effect on the functioning of the judiciary. The loss of control that
marked that period completely undermined and, to a large extent,
marginalized its role. Meanwhile, a number of judges reached retirement
age or passed away, and few adequate replacements have been appointed.
This has resulted in a substantial backlog of cases which, in turn, has
slowed down the judicial process considerably.
Legal information is another area with an acute lack of resources. There
are no legal or judicial data bases in either the West Bank or the Gaza
Strip. Court decisions, including those of the Court of Appeals and the
High Court, are not regularly published. Save for a monthly publication
by MOJ featuring the texts of recently enacted pieces of legislation, no
legal publications or periodicals exist. Legal research and development
are at an embryonic stage mainly due to the absence of graduate legal
education institutions.
Program and Project Objectives
The objectives of the program (and those of the project) are to assist
the PA in (i) putting in place a legal framework adequate to support a
modern market economy and encourage the growth of the private sector;
and (ii) increasing the efficiency, predictability and transparency of
the judicial process.
The program would accomplish these objectives by supporting the PA's
efforts to (i) modernize and harmonize the existing legal frameworks in
WBG to help provide a hospitable environment for market-oriented
activities and discourage forum shopping; (ii) improve the judiciary's
administrative and case management procedures in order to reduce case
backlog; (iii) introduce selected training programs for judges; (iv)
expand the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms; (v) help
disseminate legislation and court precedents making them accessible to
the legal, judicial, academic and business communities and the public at
large; and (vi) rehabilitate and improve parts of the judicial
infrastructure. The sole component of the program not covered by the
project is the last component (judicial infrastructure) which the Bank
will appraise and assist the PA in raising donor financing therefor.
Project Description
Modernization and Harmonization of Legislation. This component
contemplates the preparation of new draft economic, business and
financial legislation on the basis of assessments of existing and
future economic and business needs.
Court Administration and Judicial Training. Assistance would be
- 2 -



provided in the areas of court administration and the training of
judges and other court personnel through (i) the development of
appropriate curricula and training programs (including seminars on
modern foreign legal systems) and the carrying out of such programs
(this activity will constitute the nucleus of a future judicial
training center); (ii) the improvement of the courts' budget
management, statistics and case administration; (iii) the testing
of the above-described changes in various pilot courts; and (iv)
the preparation of a suitable legal framework to govern the
contemplated court administration changes.
Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanisms. Assistance would be
provided to alleviate the backlog of cases by expanding the use of
alternative dispute resolution mechanisms (ADR), both inside and
outside the formal system. This would involve training instructors
in mediation and arbitration, educating members of the legal and
judicial community in ADR, preparing professional ADR standards and
assessing the existing legal framework governing the use of ADR.
Legal Information. Assistance would be provided to improve access
to legal information through (i) the creation of two law libraries,
one to be located in the West Bank, the other in the Gaza Strip,
such libraries to serve as reference centers for MOJ, the
judiciary, private practitioners, academics, business people and
the public at large; (ii) the gathering and dissemination, through
a new publication, of court decisions; and (iii) the compilation of
the High Court decisions for publication and dissemination among
the members of the legal and judicial community.
Project Implementation
The project would be managed by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). PIU
will operate under the auspices of a steering committee consisting of
representatives of MOJ and the judiciary and will be responsible for
setting out the policy direction and pace of the reform efforts.
Program and Project Financing
The total program cost is estimated at $20 million. A credit out of the
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank in the amount of $5 million is
proposed to finance the project with an understanding that co-financing
in the amount of $15 million will be sought from bilateral and other
donors for the judicial infrastructure component.
Lessons from Previous Bank Experience
The Bank has relatively limited experience in the area of legal and
judicial reform, given that most past Bank interventions have focused on
one area of the legal system. Recent projects in the Russian Federation,
Venezuela, Bolivia, and China, however, have underscored the importance
of ownership at the highest level of government and of counterpart
commitment. Legal reform, in particular, can touch upon issues of
sovereignty, hence it cannot be imposed from the outside. The commitment
of the PA has been clearly demonstrated. Recent Bank experience
generally suggests that the following are pre-requisites for project
- 3-



success: (i) sound implementation arrangements that are fully agreed to
by all counterparts; (ii) establishment of a clear set of priorities
among the various reform objectives by linking legal reform objectives
to economic reform goals; and (iii) avoidance of over-ambitious and
unattainable goals.
Sustainability
Sustainability will largely depend on the commitment of key participants
in the project. The establishment of the steering committee, and the
criteria used in selecting its members, will ensure success of the
project. The Bank will follow the process closely to ensure transparency
and the nomination of highly qualified individuals who are committed to
reform.
The project will strengthen the judicial institutions of the PA by
financing a mix of technical assistance, training programs, equipment
for legal information systems and law books. Financing of recurrent
costs will be kept to a minimum, hence the benefits from the project
will be sustainable.
Environmental Aspects
The project does not have explicit environmental components or effects
and has therefore been classified as Category C.
Poverty Category
n/a
Program Objectives Categories
If successful, the proposed project would have benefits in several
program objective categories. First, the project would facilitate
private sector development by strengthening the legal framework
supporting such activities. Second, by modernizing legislation,
improving court administration and training judges, the project will
contribute to rationalizing public sector management and improving the
performance of the judiciary.
Contact Point:       Hadi Abushakra, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
(202) 458-1732 (tel)
(202) 477-1334 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 24, 1997.
- 4 -



