Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7133-GZ
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 14, 1997
West Bank and Gaza Program
Middle East and North Africa Region



Currency Equivalents
(As of February 13, 1997)
Currency Units in use = New Israeli Shequalim (NIS) and Jordanian Dinar (JD)
US$ 1.00 = NIS 3.144
USS 1.00 = JD 0.709
JD 1.00 -NIS 4.430
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
I ha= 10,000 m2
ABBREVIATIONS
IBRD                          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                           International Development Association
MOJ                           Ministry of Justice
MOPIC                  =      Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
NGO                    =      Non-Governmental Organization
PLO                    =      Palestine Liberation Organization
TATF                   =      Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TFGWB                  5      Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
WBG                    =      West Bank and Gaza
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President     Kemal Dervis
Country Manager    Odin Knudsen
Country Officer    Josie Bassinette
Task Manager       Hadi Abushakra
Legal Counsel      Hadi Abushakra
Peer Reviewers    Ian Newport
Barbara Nunberg



TECHNICAL ANNEX
WEST BANK & GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.        INTRODUCTION ........................................................1
II.       INSTITUTIONAL  SETTING .......................................................4
HI.       PROGRAM   AND  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION ......................................................6
IV.   UNIFICATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF LEGISLATION .............................9
V.        LEGAL  INFORMATION ......................................................                                     12
VI.       ALTERNATIVE  DISPUTE  RESOLUTION ...................................................... 14
VII.    COURT  ADMINISTRATION .......................................................                                   22
VIII.   J1UDICIAL  EDUCATION ......................................................                                     46
IX.  STEERING COMMITTEE AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT ........ 58
X.        PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  PLAN ......................................................                            66
XI.       SUMMARY  AND  DETAILED  COST  TABLES ................................................. 73
MAP                  IBRD No. 27791 (following Chapter XI)






WEST BANK & GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          The Declaration of Principles (DOP) and subsequent agreements between
the Government of the State of Israel and the PLO, culminating in the signing of the
Interim Agreement on September 28, 1995 (collectively, the Peace Accords), have
ushered in a new era in Israeli-Palestinian relations and, in so doing, have laid out a
framework for a staged resolution of a long-standing conflict.
1.2          After twenty-seven years of Israeli military occupation, governance in
WBG is being gradually handed over to the Palestinians. The Peace Accords have
established a complex structure of governance which, in essence, divides WBG into three
areas, each of which featuring a different degree of Palestinian self-rule. Currently, all
major cities in the West Bank and all of the Gaza Strip, save for Israeli settlements and
military areas, have come under the rule of the PA. The PA's powers are limited,
however, in areas outside the major cities, including some rural areas of the West Bank,
where authority in the spheres of security, land and natural resources is still in Israeli
hands. Most of the unpopulated areas of the West Bank are still under full Israeli
jurisdiction.
1.3          The confusion deriving from the jurisdictional division of the West Bank,
and the resulting multiplicity of applicable legal regimes, is compounded by the initial
duality in legal regimes in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip which prevents the
application of a uniform set of laws across territories under Palestinian jurisdiction. The
West Bank was an integral part of Jordan from 1950 until occupied by Israel in 1967. Its
legal regime is hence none other than the pre-June 1967 Jordanian regime, a civil-law
inspired regime supplemented and modified by Israeli military orders of the post-June
1967 era.
1.4          The situation in the Gaza Strip is different. Though administered by Egypt
following the 1948 war,' the legal regime currently in force in the Gaza Strip is the one
that applied in Palestine prior to 1948.
Based on an understanding that their presence was a temporary arrangement pending resolution of the
Palestinian question, the Egyptians purposefully avoided extensive legislating in the Gaza Strip. The
constitution of Palestine of 1962 (which, interestingly, has not been repealed yet) is the main
legislative piece to be promulgated during the Egyptian administration period .



-2 -
1.5         The existing legal frameworks in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip are
generally recognized as not fully adequate to support a market economy, let alone a
modem one. Not having kept pace with developments in the global markets, many of the
laws in WBG are in need of modernization and would constrain the ability of domestic
firms to achieve regional, let alone intemational, competitiveness. The laws are somewhat
antiquated. In the West Bank, no modernization of economic, business and financial laws
has taken place since 1967. The situation in the Gaza Strip is worse. There, economic,
business and financial laws are deemed generally inadequate in the context of modern
commercial and financial transactions. Moreover, the two legal frameworks differ from
one another, appear to be laden with cumbersome procedures in relation to major
economic activities and are fraught by a lack of regulations in crucial economic areas
such as banking, insurance and capital markets.
1.6         Impediments to a modem market economy are not only found at the
written law level but also at the dispute resolution, enforcement institutions and human
resource levels, and all aspects of the rule of law and administration of justice. The
judiciary in WBG is plagued by many an ailment, chief among which are a lack of clarity
as to its independence, (there is no constitution or basic law guaranteeing the principle of
separation of powers, and judges are appointed by the Minister of Justice and by the
President of the High Court), outdated procedures and management systems, inadequate
facilities, understaffing and a shortage of qualified judges and financial resources. The
Intifada years (1987-1993) had a devastating effect on the functioning of the judiciary.
The loss of control that marked that period completely undermined and, to a large extent,
marginalized its role. Meanwhile, a number of judges reached retirement age or passed
away, and few adequate replacements have been appointed. This has resulted in a
substantial backlog of cases which, in turn, has slowed down the judicial process
considerably.
1.7         Legal information is another area with an acute lack of resources. There
are no legal or judicial data bases in either the West Bank or the Gaza Strip. Court
decisions, including those of the Court of Appeals and the High Court, are not regularly
published. Save for a monthly publication by MOJ featuring the texts of recently enacted
pieces of legislation, no legal publications or periodicals exist. Legal research and
development are at an embryonic stage mainly due to the absence of graduate legal
education institutions (Birzeit University Law Center has started offering a Masters
program only last year).
1.8         The absence of adequately trained staff, in sufficient numbers, pervades
the judicial and legislative landscape in WBG and impedes the functioning of the
judiciary and the law drafting ability of MOJ, and that of the Palestinian Council too.
Members of the Palestinian Council are said to be currently operating without the
assistance of staff to review Cabinet-introduced legislation or to draft their own bills.



- 3 -
II. INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
2.1         The Palestinian Council. On January 20, 1996, Palestinian residents of
the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip elected an 88-member Palestinian
Council (the Council), together with the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority of the
Palestinian Authority, who is also the 89th member of the Council. Under the terms of the
Peace Accords, the Council will exercise limited legislative authority over the parts of the
West Bank and Gaza Strip under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority for an
interim period not extending beyond May 4, 1999.
2.2         The Council began its work facing several significant limitations. The
Peace Accords prevent the Council from legislating on final status negotiations issues
(Jerusalem, settlements, specified military locations, Palestinian refugees, borders,
foreign relations and Israelis) and Israeli control over the WBG borders limits the
Council's ability to address day-to-day Palestinian needs.
2.3         The Basic Law and the Standing Orders. The Council has taken several
steps toward establishing its internal mechanisms. It has elected a Speaker, reviewed and
adopted Standing Orders, formed committees and elected committee officers. The review
and promulgation of the Basic Law is a critical next step. Until the Basic Law is adopted,
important questions concerning the powers of the institution and those of the two other
branches of government remain unresolved.
2.4         The latest draft of the Basic Law separates and defines the executive,
legislative and judiciary functions in a manner that is generally consistent with
democratic constitutional norms. Some of the provisions of the draft Basic Law include
the power of the legislative authority to approve laws, debate government policy and
approve the government's budget. The judicial authority is described as an independent
authority to be exercised by the High Court and other courts. The President of the High
Court is both the head of the judicial authority and the chief judge. The President of the
High Court is appointed by presidential decree with the approval of the High Judiciary
Council. The composition, powers and procedures of the latter Council are also provided
for in the draft Basic Law. The Basic Law will also provide the rules governing the
appointment, transfer, secondment and promotion of judges.
2.5         The Standing Orders provide the basic elements of a viable committee
system by making committee consideration a mandatory stage in the legislative process.
Each of the eleven committees has oversight responsibilities. In addition, the Standing
Orders allow committees to decide to open their meetings to the public. Calendar and
scheduling provisions in the Standing Orders give the Council sufficient control over its
own schedule. The Standing Orders also provide immunity to Council members from all
criminal charges (except for members apprehended in flagrante delicto), protect members
and their possession from being searched and set forth the procedures for Council
consideration of a request to deprive a member of immunity. The Council will meet in
two regular sessions from February to June and from September to December.



Extraordinary sessions can be called by the Cabinet or by one quarter of the Council
members.
2.6         The Legislative Process. Draft laws can be introduced by the Cabinet or
by one or more Council members and are first considered in committee and then in
plenary. The question of whether a draft law adopted by the Council can be vetoed by the
Ra'ees awaits the completion of the Basic Law. In practice, however, Diwan Al-Fatwa
Wal Tachri'e (the Council for Legislation and Advice) within MOJ (the Diwan) is the
agency responsible for drafting legislation (even though the Council is not precluded
from doing so).
2.7         The Palestinian Authority has established the following steps for the
development and review of draft legislation: (a) a sectoral ministry prepares a draft law or
an outline/concept of a law; (b) the Diwan either drafts the new legislation or, in cases
where a sectoral ministry has prepared the draft legislation, finalizes it; (c) the Diwan
distributes the draft legislation to all ministries which have 30 days to comment on it; (d)
the Diwan incorporates the ministries' comments, if any, in the final draft which is then
forwarded to the Cabinet for approval before submission to the Council for enactment.
2.8         The Court System. There are two categories of courts in the West Bank
and Gaza: regular courts and special tribunals. In the West Bank, the regular courts
include magistrate courts established in every sub-district and a court of first instance
established in every district. The Court of Appeals sits in Ramallah. It also sits as a High
Court of Justice and hears appeals against administrative decisions by the public sector.
The structure of regular courts in Gaza follows more closely English law with the first
degree court being magistrate courts, then district courts then the High Court which can
also sit as an appeal court. The jury system is used neither in Gaza nor in the West Bank.
Personal status cases including succession, guardianship and matrimonial matters are
heard by religious courts.
2.9         Law Journals and Case Reports. The Jordanian Bar Association has
published a monthly law journal since January 1953 containing articles on the law and
the decisions of the High Court in civil and criminal cases, as well as the decisions of the
Jordanian High Court of Justice. Although precedents are not binding on West Bank
courts, judges refer to the precedents of Jordanian courts and follow them. In Gaza, two
volumes of selected judgments of the court of appeals and the High Court are available,
the first covering the period 1967-1972 and the second covering the period 1973-1993.
2.10        The Legal Profession. All registered lawyers may appear before the
courts, prepare cases, carry out transactions in the various official departments and submit
trademark and patent registrations. The law requires publicly-held companies to be
represented by a lawyer. Lawyers may only notarize the signature of their clients on
special powers of attorney given to them to represent their clients before the courts or to
carry out other legal work on their behalf. Otherwise, notarization is undertaken through
a notary public. Qualifications required to practice law include obtaining a law degree



-5 -
from a recognized law school and completion of two years' training at a lawyer's office.
In Gaza, lawyers-in-training must pass a qualifying examination before they are admitted
to the bar. There are two bar associations, one in the West Bank and one in Gaza, and
more than 2,500 qualified practicing lawyers. Most lawyers obtained their law degrees
from universities in Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria. Judges do not undergo special
training.



- 6-
III. PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1   Palestinian  Rule  of Law   Strategic  Development Plan  (the
Program). In October 1996, MOJ developed (with assistance from Australian
International Legal Resources, Inc., an Australian NGO) an investment program called
the Rule of Law Strategic Development Plan whose main objectives include the
modernization of the legal framework, the strengthening of the judiciary and the Attorney
General's office, the construction of new courthouses and improvement of judicial
infrastructure, the development of a legal and judicial database and the development of an
independent forensic science capability. Implementation of the Program is expected to
take place over several phases and will require international as well as local assistance.
The Program was disseminated to the executive and judicial branches of the Palestinian
Authority, as well as the donor community, and consensus has been reached about the
areas of reform.
3.2   Program  and Project Concept, Design and Development Impact.
IDA recognizes that the proposed project would be a mere first step toward the long-term
goal of establishing the rule of law in WBG, an undertaking that will require assistance
well beyond what is proposed under the project. The project would consist of a slice of
the Program, and would represent the highest priorities of MOJ and the judiciary. It
would comprise five self-contained components. IDA's approach to this operation would
accommodate donors wishing to partake in the financing of the Program or the project. If
donor financing were to become available for one or more components of the project,
IDA would be ready to accommodate these additional funds and finance other
components of the Program. This is consistent with the catalytic approach to donor co-
financing that has been used by IDA in other projects in WBG. In addition, IDA has
been assisting the PA in identifying sources of financing for the Program as a whole,
primarily for the construction of two courthouses in Ramallah and Gaza City. IDA has
appraised the need to construct these courthouses, found them to be necessary and has
reviewed preliminary courthouse construction plans and designs. When financing for this
component of the Program becomes available, detailed engineering designs would need
to be developed before construction could commence. Procurement arrangements for this
component can only be confirmed after the source of financing has been identified, since
the respective donor might have specific requirements (tied financing for example).
Should the donor entrust IDA, under trust fund arrangements, with the administration of
the donor's funds, IDA's procurement guidelines would then apply.
3.3.  Project Objectives and Description. The objectives of the project would
be to assist the PA in (a) starting the process of putting in place a legal framework
adequate to support a modern market economy and encourage the growth of the private
sector; and (b) increasing the efficiency and predictability of the judicial process. The
legal framework would be improved by unifying and developing legislation and
disseminating needed legal information.  The judiciary would be strengthened by



- 7 -
providing judges and court personnel with new case management techniques, information
technology and mediation procedures which would allow cases to be resolved in an
efficient and effective manner; and by improving the quality of judicial training. Through
these components, the judiciary should experience efficiency gains and improvements in
the quality of service delivered to the public, while improvements in the legal framework
should provide greater clarity to the judiciary, as well as investors. The project would
support the PA's efforts to (i) unify and develop the existing legal framework to help
provide a hospitable environment for market-oriented activities; (ii) improve the
judiciary's administrative and case management procedures, and reduce case backlog;
(iii) introduce selected training programs for judges; (iv) expand the use of alternative
dispute resolution mechanisms within the judiciary; and (v) disseminate legislation and
court precedents to the legal, judicial, academic and business communities, and the public
at large.
3.4.  The trust fund credit would be made to the PLO for the benefit of the PA. To that
end, the PLO would enter with the PA into a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary
Agreement) under which the PLO would pass on to the PA the trust fund credit's
proceeds for the latter to implement the Project. MOJ would be the implementing
agency. The trust fund credit would finance consulting services, training and the
purchase of goods through the following components (expressed in their base costs):
Unification and Development of Legislation: US$1.07 million; Court Administration:
US$1.52 million; Judicial Training: US$922,000; Alternative Dispute Resolution:
US$660,000; Legal Information: US$385,000. Total project costs are estimated at
US$5.624 million.
3.5.  Component 1: Unification and Development of Legislation. (US$1.07 million).
Building on the compilation of existing legislation in WBG which is on-going, the MOJ
would establish commissions consisting of staff from MOJ, and other local experts in the
subject under review, if any. The trust fund credit would finance the services of outside
legal experts who would, as members of these commissions, assist in the drafting of legal
texts and advise on the substance of subject matters. MOJ would, at the start of each year,
prepare a work program setting out the priority areas of the law to be unified in the course
of said year. This component would also finance the preparation of diagnostic and other
studies and the carrying out of related ancillary activities.
3.6.  The commissions would, on a case-by-case basis, prepare research materials,
propose new draft legislation (or amendments to existing legislation) and hold workshops
to discuss the new proposed legislation. Areas of the law to be covered by this activity
include: (a) contracts; (b) property rights; (c) company and partnership; (d) agency and
distributorship; (e) finance; (f) insurance; (g) private international; (h) public
international; (i) labor; and (j) customs.
3.7.  Component 2: Court Administration. (US$1.52  million). The  Court
Administration component would be a fundamental element in the overall goal of
improving the capacity of the judiciary. The goal of the component would be to improve



-8 -
the central administrative function, establish a planning function, establish personnel
classification system, improve records management, improve judicial statistics and
management information systems, and develop standard legal forms.
3.8.  Component 3: Judicial Training. (US$922,000). The main objective of the
judicial training component would be to support an impartial, effective, competent and
efficient judiciary. This component would support the development of a judicial
education structure and curriculum under the guidance of a judicial committee (which has
already been established by order of the President of the High Court), establish a resource
center, develop judicial education standards, train judicial educators, develop a long range
training plan, establish internal and external programs, and develop teaching materials
and codes of ethics.
3.9.  Component 4: Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanisms. (US$660,00).
The main objective of this component would be to address some of the principal
problems confronting the judiciary including fairness and effectiveness, as well as
provide the private sector with needed expertise in commercial disputes. This component
would include education of the legal professionals about alternatives to judicial dispute
resolution; a pilot mediation program, within the judiciary, for commercial cases in Gaza
and Ramallah; and development of draft legislation that would introduce appropriate
alternative dispute resolution mechanisms.
3.10. Component 5: Legal Information. (US$385,000) Assistance would be provided
to the PA in improving access to legal information for the public and legal community,
through (i) the enhancement of law libraries in the Ministry of Justice and the Judiciary to
serve as reference centers for the MOJ, the judiciary, private practitioners, academics,
business people and the public at large; (ii) the support for publication and dissemination
of court decisions and laws, and development of bench manuals for judges and court
support staff; (iii) support for a legal information connection to assist MOJ in researching
for legislative drafting; and (iv) the establishment of a legal data base in MOJ to support
the dissemination of legislation.



-9-
IV.UNIFICATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF LEGISLATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. Background. The law of the West Bank and Gaza is a mosaic, comprised of many
pieces of legislation inherited from different historic eras and reflecting the succession of
powers in that region. The Ottomans introduced an extensive set of laws part of which is
still applicable to this day. The British mandate over Palestine (1920-1948) modified and
supplemented Ottoman law in certain areas with English-modeled legislation, including
authentic codification of English common law and the doctrines of equity. In other areas,
Ottoman law continued to apply and British mandate legislation only supplemented it.
Following the unification of the two banks of the Jordan River in 1950, Jordanian law
was gradually applied in the West Bank and replaced British mandate law in most areas.
Jordan reversed the process that the British had started and introduced legislation
modeled after the laws of other Arab countries, such as Egypt, which, themselves, were
mostly modeled after French civil law. Gaza, on the other hand, came under Egyptian
administration during the period 1948-1967 and managed to maintain its British-
influenced legal system throughout that period. Following the Israeli occupation of the
West Bank and Gaza in June 1967, Israel introduced over 1,400 military orders.
Jordanian, British and Ottoman legislation that was not modified by the military orders
remained in force. The Palestinian Authority, upon its inauguration, issued a resolution
giving effect to all laws in force in the West Bank and Gaza prior to June 5, 1967.
The above resulted in the existing legal frameworks in the West Bank and Gaza being
generally unknown to the international business community. Aside from being unknown,
they are recognized as not fully adequate to support a market economy, let alone a
modem one. Not having kept pace with developments in the global markets, many of the
laws are in need of modernization and would constrain the ability of domestic firms to
achieve regional, let alone international, competitiveness. Many laws are also antiquated.
In the West Bank, no modernization of economic, business and financial laws has taken
place since 1967. The situation in Gaza is worse. There, economic, business and financial
laws are deemed generally inadequate in the context of modern, financial transactions.
Moreover, the two legal frameworks differ from one another and are fraught by a lack of
regulations in crucial economic areas such as banking and capital markets.
As a prelude to this component, the Bir Zeit University Law Center (the Law Center),
following a request by the Diwan, has contracted with the Palestinian Economic Council
for Development and Construction to compiling existing legislation in each of the West
Bank and Gaza, on a subject-by-subject basis, in accordance with an order of priority
agreed upon with the Bank. Compilation activities are on-going.
2. Objective and Strategy. The objective of this component is to assist the Palestinian
Authority in establishing, through the unification of existing laws, a comprehensive legal



- 10-
framework conducive to promote a favorable environment for private sector development
and stimulate foreign direct investment in the West Bank and Gaza.
To achieve the above objective, the Diwan will set up, every time it receives legislation
compiled by the Law Center in a given area, ad-hoc commissions consisting of lawyers
from the Diwan, as well as outside lawyers, if need be. The Diwan will then, without
delay, employ a team of experienced lawyers with expertise in the area of the law for
which legislation will have been compiled (the Consultants) to work, as members of the
commission, on drafting new legislation. The new legislation is meant to replace existing
legislation and should be prepared with utmnost concern for coherence, practicability and
relevance to the Palestinian Authority's economic policies. In some cases, the drafting
may have been done by another office (lawyers from the Diwan or lawyers financed
under other Projects); in such cases, the Consultants' activities will focus primarily on
commenting on such drafts. Once drawn-up, the Diwan will forward draft legislation to
the Quality Insurance Unit within the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
(QIU), to be established in the first half of 1997 under a Project financed by the United
States Agency for International Development and whose main function is to ensure
compliance of draft legislation with the Palestinian Authority's economic policies. Once
QIU approves a draft, it retums it to the Diwan which, in turn, sends it to other Ministries
and relevant external entities or agencies, as the case may be, which have thirty (30) days
to comment on the text. Comments are then passed on to the Diwan for incorporation and
submission to the Council of Ministers which, following endorsement of the draft laws,
will send them to the Palestinian Council for enactment.
Areas of the law to be covered by this activity include: (i) contracts and property rights
(real and personal); (ii) company and partnership law; (iii) commercial (agency and
distributorship) law; (iv) banking and finance; (v) customs law; (vi) insurance law; (vii)
private international law; (viii) public international law; and (ix) labor law.
3. Activities and Outputs. The Consultants will:
(a) Assess the main shortcomings of each set of legislation (the West Bank model and the
Gaza one), present successful approaches adopted by other countries, particularly
regional ones, and propose options for the unification of the two sets of legislation into
one modern legislative text.
(b) Discuss major reform options with the Ministry of Justice and other Ministries of the
Palestinian Authority if necessary, and, subsequently, draft texts that reflect the option
selected by the Ministry of Justice.
(c) Draw-up modern legislation suitable for the economic climate, legal tradition and
social norms of the West Bank and Gaza.
(d) Organize and participate in workshops and conferences held by the Diwan to discuss
new draft legislation with interested parties and seek views and comments thereon.



(e) Prepare, if requested by the Steering Committee, diagnostic, preparatory and other
studies, and carry out such additional activities as may be necessary to achieve the
objectives of this component of the Project.
4. Consultants' Qualifications. For each area of the law for which existing legislative
texts have been compiled, the Consultants, who may be individual lawyers, a law firm or
a faculty, will provide at least two (2) lawyers who (a) have at least ten (10) years
experience each, either as practicing attorneys or as academicians, and who are
recognized as highly competent in their fields; (b) are familiar with one or more regional
legal systems, including the local legal system; and (c) proficient in drafting legislation
directly in the Arabic language.
5. Work Plan. The following schedule summarizes the estimated timetable for producing
a new piece of legislation and the sequencing of tasks at hand:
a. Estimated time for the Consultants to familiarize themselves with legislation in a
specific area of the law: two (2) weeks.
b. Estimated time for the drafting stage: four (4) weeks.
c. Estimated time for input from the QIU: two (2) weeks.
d. Estimated time for assessment of the draft by relevant Ministries and other entities:
four (4) weeks.
e. Estimated time for incorporating comments into final draft for submission to Council
of Ministers: two (2) weeks.
6. Workshops. Two (2) workshops will be held (one in the West Bank, the other in
Gaza) following finalization of a draft piece of legislation. The workshops will be
attended by, among others, local lawyers, local judges and members of the business
community. International experts may also be invited to give the benefit of their own
experiences and those of their countries.
7. Timetable. This component is expected to commence on September 1997 and last over
the life of the Project.



- 12 -
V. LEGAL INFORMATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
As part of the Legal Development Project, there will be a legal information component
which will disseminate existing laws, as well as those to be passed in the future, make
court decisions available to the judges, establish law libraries and provide the legal
community with access to international legal developments. Neither the Ministry Of
Justice nor the Judiciary have access to legal materials that will guide their work and
assist in their decision-making process. In addition, the public in general and the legal
community in particular have limited access to legislative texts, court decisions and
general information about the legal process. This component will include the provision
of law books for the libraries of the Ministry of Justice and the Judiciary; the publication
of laws, judgments of the courts, a computer link with the Library of Congress, and Legal
Data Base in the Ministry of Justice.
LAW LIBRARIES FOR THE DIWAN, THE JUDGES AND THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL
In an effort to provide the necessary information on the current laws and regulations, law
books will be provided to the Diwan, the judiciary's libraries, and to the individual
courts. This component will finance the purchase of necessary books for these libraries.
A judicial education committee appointed by the President of the High Court will
determine the required library list of books necessary for each court and the libraries
located in the courts. This will include at the minimum the statutes and other basic texts.
In an effort to improve the access to legal information, the component will also finance a
subscription to a legal information services, and the training of two librarians in the
courts (one from the West Bank and one from Gaza).
LEGAL PUBLICATIONS
This component will support the dissemination of judgments of the court in a timely
fashion that can then be disseminated to the judges in the WBG. Bench Manuals for
judges and manuals for court support staff will also be developed. In addition, the
component will support the publication in the official gazette and dissemination of the
laws which are currently under preparation. These publications would be disseminated to
the PA, the judiciary, law libraries and the public. See Terms of Reference for Judicial
Training.
LEGAL INFORMATION
In an effort to support the legislative drafting efforts of the Ministry of Justice, this
component will support a computer link with the global network of the Library of



- 13 -
Congress in Washington, D.C. This will allow the Diwan to access laws from all over the
world which will assist them in researching for legislative drafting.
LEGAL DATA BASE
As new laws are passed by the PA, this component will support the development of a
legal information system which includes these laws on diskette, as well as through the
internet. This component would also support the dissemination of these laws to the
Judiciary, the various Ministries, and the public at large. This will complement the
component on Legal Drafting (see Terms of Reference for Legal Drafting).
TIMETABLE
This component is expected to last over the life of the Project. It will have the following
structure of activities:
Law Libraries for the Diwan, Judges and the Attorney General:
Appointment of the Judicial Education Committee   5/97
Committee determines list of texts                7/97
Purchase of texts for courts and libraries        9/97
and dissemination
Training for (2) law librarians in Judiciary      1/98
1/99
Yearly subscription for legal information services  1/98-12/2000
Legal Publications:
see judicial training schedule
Legal Information:
Computer Link                                     10/97
Legal Data Base
Creation and updating of inforrnation             8/97- 6/2000
Dissemination of laws on diskette                 1/97-6/2000



- 14-
VI. ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
Dispute resolution through the judicial system is inefficient and lacks predictability in
many cases especially those in the commercial area. Currently the procedural codes
provide for alternative dispute resolution during the process and there is an interest to
expand the use of this system and build the capacity of the courts to implement such an
expanded system. For example, the judges are expected under the civil procedural code
to refer cases to arbitration if the parties agree and the magistrate judges are expected to
reconcile disputes through conciliation. Both in the West Bank and Gaza the procedural
codes allow for arbitration.
The objectives of the ADR component of the Project include: 1) education of the legal
professionals about alternatives to judicial dispute resolution, 2) provision of dispute
resolution services as a complement to the judicial function, whereby access to dispute
resolution services will increase, and court adjudication delays will decrease, and 3)
development of draft legislation that would include appropriate alternative dispute
mechanisms in the future unified procedural code for the WBG.
The ADR component of the Project will include two principle sub-components: 1) one
court-annexed pilot arbitration/mediation program in Gaza and the other in Ramallah and
2) research based on data gathered by the pilot program, and other ADR experiences in
order to develop draft legislation for ADR in the future unified codes and to develop
standards for mediators and arbitrators.
An ADR consulting firm and/or individual consultants (hereafter consultant(s)) will be
needed to provide technical assistance in a variety of areas. Consulting firms and/or
individuals (hereafter "consultants") will be selected based on background in ADR
program design and implementation, international ADR experience and Arabic language
facility. A joint venture between international and local consultants could be formed to
perform the Project activities. The consultants will work with a working group appointed
by the President of the High Court of the High Court and which will include two judges
from the West Bank and two from Gaza and the presidents of the Bar Association. This
component was prepared by a similar working group.
I. ADR PILOT PLAN
The objective is to establish in Gaza and Ramallah a mediation/arbitration program for
commercial cases. The expected outcome of the pilot exercise is a clear demonstration of
the potential for ADR to provide timely, efficient, and equitable justice, in a way that



- 15 -
provides a complement to the traditional court-sponsored judicial system, that can serve
as a means for reducing the case load and burden on the court system, and that can
provide the private sector with needed expertise in commercial disputes.
A. Short Pilot Description
To accomplish these objectives, a arbitration/mediation program will be established, and
an ADR center will be established within the courthouse in Gaza and Ramallah and
staffed by the following: an administrator, five part-time arbitrators/mediators in Gaza
and seven part-time arbitrators/mediators in Ramallah (specializing in commercial cases),
and two secretaries.
B. ADR Model Design
The pilot court-annexed arbitration/mediation program model will be implemented at all
levels for commercial cases in Gaza City and Ramallah. In collaboration with the
working group, consultants will develop procedural guidelines and a contractual
framework in which the arbitration or mediation will take place. As part of the consultant
responsibilities, the preparation of the model mediation contracts, an operational manual
for the center, and the establishment of the case management/record keeping system for
the centers should be completed within the first two months of the establishment of the
center. The program will be implemented by a resolution issued by the President of the
High Court.
Two models for the entry of a case to the center are contemplated:
Model 1: Using existing procedural codes
Upon entry of a case to the court, the case is assigned to a judge and a specific court. The
presiding judge calls the parties and inquires whether the parties are interested in
arbitrating or mediating the case. If the parties agree, the case is referred to the ADR
center and the case is placed in suspension in the legal process. Parties agree to mediate
or arbitrate and then the center arbitrates or attempts to reconcile depending on what the
parties choose. If resolution under mediation is achieved the case is referred to the
presiding judge for signature/approval/stamp. If resolution is not achieved, the case is
returned to the active case file of the judge. If the conflict is resolved through arbitration
the case is sent to the judge for signature/approval/stamp and the decision is enforceable
in the courts.
Model 2: Arbitration or Mediation before the filing of case
At any time before the filing of a law suit before the judiciary, the ADR offices may offer
their services to resolve a dispute according to the relevant rules that will be produced for
this model. The resolution of such disputes would be non-enforceable in the courts
because the legal framework does not contemplate this.



- 16-
In both models, the arbitrators/mediators will not devote more than a certain number of
hours to a specific case; the parties, however, may continue indefinitely in their private
negotiations.
C. Introduction to ADR Training
The consultants will design and participate in introductory ADR seminars, including the
following:
1. "Pre-Pilot Implementation" Seminar
A seminar on Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) will be conducted in or about
June 1997 for judges, attorneys and other professionals interested in the topic. The
purpose of the seminar will be to provide an overview of ADR mechanisms and to
inform attendees of the particular ADR pilot program which will be implemented in
WBG in late 1997.
The consultants will be responsible for overseeing the: 1) selection of ADR topics to
be addressed in the seminar; 2) recruitment and selection of seminar speakers; 3)
development of seminar materials; 4) pre-seminar public relations; and 5) seminar
administration.
2. General Judicial ADR Seminars
Mediation and arbitration seminars will be conducted for judges of WBG. The
seminars will be approximately eight hours long and will be offered in the West Bank
and in Gaza. All judges in all levels of the courts will be invited to participate. The
purpose of the seminars will be to: 1) introduce the judges to ADR concepts and
mechanisms; and 2) provide general information about the design and implementation
of the pilot programs in the Courts in both cities.
The consultant will facilitate the working group regarding the content of the seminars,
and, thereafter, will prepare seminar materials to be distributed to both participating
judges and their support staff.
The consultant will oversee and participate in the seminars, which will include
lectures, practical exercises and discussion.



- 17-
D. Judicial Participation and Training
1. Judicial Participation
All judges in Gaza City and Ramallah will participate in this pilot program from all
levels of the courts.
2. Arbitration and Mediation Training
In consultation with the working group, the consultant will design arbitration and
mediation training materials for judges who will participate in the pilot programs in
both locations. Attendance of all participating judges and their respective support
staff will be required.
Following review and approval of the ADR training material by the working group,
the consultant will conduct a two day training in each of the pilot sites. Following
completion of the training the consultant will provide an evaluation report based on
pre-established criteria regarding the participants, the trainers and the training content.
E. Pilot Staff Selection and Training
1. Arbitration and Mediation Staff Selection
The consultant will facilitate working group discussions regarding the criteria and
methodology by which administrative and professional staff will be selected for the
pilot programs in both locations. Following court approval of both the selection
criteria and methodology, the consultant will oversee the recruitment and selection
processes.
Fifteen lawyers or retired judges will be invited to an arbitration and mediation
training course. They will be selected by the working group on the basis of their
experience in commercial issues and their reputation in the community (special
consideration will be given to those who have already participated in preliminary
training conducted by Search for Common Ground, a US NGO. Other experience in
accounting, engineering and other areas related to the commercial field will be taken
in to account. These lawyers will participate  in a seminar-workshop for mediators
and arbitrators. The 12 lawyers that demonstrate the highest qualifications will be
selected for the pilot program. The others may participate as substitutes and/or in the
program at a later stage. The seminar-workshop may last between 36 and 40 hours
and will be given by arbitration and mediation specialists. These mediators will be
part-time, they will be paid on an hourly basis for each mediation session.
2. Arbitration and Mediation Training and Manual Development



- 18-
The consultant will survey existing mediator training materials used in the region.
Based on the consultant's research, he/she will draft training materials and
recommend a training design to be considered by the working group. The consultant
will also develop evaluation criteria and methodologies for evaluation of trainees,
trainers and the training itself.
Following revisions by the working group, the consultant will conduct a 40-hour
arbitration and 40 hour mediation training for all staff (i.e. both administrative and
professional) of the pilot office. Training will be held for staff of the office (site to be
determined).  The consultant will compile and report evaluations results after
completion of the training.
Training courses will be prepared for:
1)   judges participating in the pilot program (This training, approximately 12
hours, would be carried out by the judiciary so as to involve the
participating judges in the preparation activities)
2)    The judiciary will offer a seminar to explain the pilot program (This
should be in coordination with the Bar Association to reach out to
potential arbitrators and mediators)
3)    Arbitration and Mediation training experts will conduct a seminar-
workshop of about 36 hours for lawyers who will be trained as arbitrators
and mediators.
4)    Training may disseminate among the legal community the benefits of the
ADR program and assist in building consensus for the use of ADR. The
working group will coordinate with the bar association to hold one or two
lectures on ADR in general, the pilot program, and the role of lawyers in
the process.
3. Administration Training
The consultant will provide technical assistance for the establishment and
implementation of the pilot ADR program in WBG. The consultant will supervise
development   of   operational   manuals  (including   confidentiality   of
arbitrators/mediators, recourse if breach of confidentiality and general principles of
arbitration/mediation), staff job descriptions, organizational charts, caseflow
management guidelines, screening and referral mechanisms, quality control criteria
and methodologies and will provide other administrative and substantive technical
assistance, as needed. In addition, a booklet will be prepared containing basic
information on ADR and the pilot program. These booklets should be distributed
among the judges, lawyers, the business community, and the parties who will
participate in the program.



- 19-
F. Infrastructure
The pilot program will have an office in the courthouse in both Gaza and
Ramallah, with a reception room and arbitration and mediation room. Office equipment
(including computers, printers and telephones, furniture etc) will be supplied by the
Project. Due to limited space in the existing facilities, mediation sessions may take place
outside the courthouse as well if the parties agree. This should be considered in the
future plans for new courthouse facilities.
II. EVALUATION: Pilot Program Research Study
The consultant will design an ongoing research study to monitor the implementation
of the pilot program. As part of the design process, the consultant will collaborate
with pilot staff, the working groups and the Project implementation unit to define
Project goals, develop a computerized database to measure the program's
effectiveness in achieving its stated goals and to track general information about the
nature of disputes mediated, as well as the characteristics of program users.
The consultant will conduct formal research studies based on data compiled by the
pilot program one year after implementation of the program and at the conclusion of
the pilot Project, with semi-annual reviews of the progress of the study. Results of
the research study will be published and presented at conferences held one year after
pilot implementation and at the conclusion of the pilot Project. The consultant will
also provide technical assistance to the pilot staff for purposes of producing interim
report with which ADR services and procedures will be evaluated, and as needed,
modified.
Pilot Staff Research Training
The consultant will provide technical assistance to the pilot staff in data collection
techniques, computer input methods and monthly and quarterly interim report
generation.
III. STUDY AND PROPOSAL FOR DRAFT ADR PROVISIONS
During the pilot program, consultants will be contracted to conduct a study on ADR
mechanisms and propose draft provisions for ADR in the future civil procedural code.
This study will review ADR mechanisms currently being used in the WBG, those being
used in the region as well as England and Cyprus. This study will also take into account
the pilot experience and the success and failures of the program. The study will
recommend articles on ADR for the civil procedural code as well as: I)whether there
should court-annexed ADR or private adjudication; 2)what types of cases are appropriate
for ADR; 3)what criteria should be to select cases for arbitration and mediation; 4) how
ADR can be funded; 5) what qualifications the arbitrators and mediators should have and



- 20 -
what type of training should have prior to providing such services; 6) what code of ethics
should be in place for arbitrators and mediators
The study will be reviewed by the worldng group and once a draft is complete the study
and proposed provisions will be processed through the legislative framework established
for the legislative drafting component.
Reporting Requirements
The consultant will provide the Project Coordination Unit with quarterly progress
reports. A final report will be delivered to the PIU at the end of the pilot Project and the
study.
IV. TIMETABLE
The pilot program is expected to be in operation for two years in both Gaza and
Ramallah. If the pilot exercise is successful, it is expected that the assumption of the
responsibilities for the operation of the mediation office and its staff will become
incorporated in the administrative and operational activities of the judiciary, including
budget. The overall timetable of the various activities under the pilot program is
described in the initial portion of this annex. Key activities and their targeted timetable
include:
ADR Pilot Exercises
Structure ofActivities
1. Design of Pilot Exercises                                (working group)
Establish criteria for judge/arbitrator/mediator selection 7/97  (WG)
2. Development of ADR Guides/Models
a. Determine Guideline compatibility with
codes, leg. and issue High Court Resolution  8/97      1 sm (int'l)
by President of the High Court for pilot
b. Develop Guidelines (pre-training base material)   9/97  2 sm (int'l)
c. Development of Full Manuals for ADR     10/97-12/97    2 sm (local)
2 sm (int'l)
3. Initial Implementation of Pilots
a. Two pre-pilot seminars on ADR in WBG



- 21 -
12/97
-  1 International consultant and travel for 3 sw
- Local consultant specialist (3sw)
-  Conference preparation and materials
-  Local travel for participants, etc.
b. Establishment of structure for Selection
Committee and appointment                      12/97
c. Initial training for selected Judge' arb/med:   1/98
-  Contract int'l firm for 2 monins
- Facilities, etc.
4. WBG Pilot                                             3/98-12/2000
(see attached cost sheet for life of Project)
Project Administrator (2)
Senior Arbitrators/Mediators (12 part-time equivalent)
Assistants/Secretaries (4)
Monitoring and Evaluation
a. develop data material                           12/97
b. conduct one year program study                   1/99
c. conduct end of pilot evaluation             1/2000-2/2000
5. ADR Study
a. review and drafting of provisions          10/1999-2/2000
- 2 Local consultant specialist (2 months)
- 1 International consultant and travel (3 sw)
b. workshop to discuss study                       3/2000
- publication of study
-  facilities



- 22 -
VII. COURT ADMINISTRATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
The court administration component is a fundamental element in the overall goal of
improving the capacity and efficiency of the West Bank Gaza's court system. The
specific objective of this component will be to assist the judicial branch to develop
modem administrative systems and organizational structures.   The design of this
component has taken into account the rudimentary level of the administrative structure
and systems in the judiciary.
Advanced administrative and management elements associated with modem
administrative systems, e.g., automated case management and case tracking will be
introduced in a second phase of activity once the basic systems--fundamental technology,
improved facilities, defined administrative policies and procedures, training programs--
are in place.
Project activities in this component will focus, at the central policy making and
administrative level, on assisting in the establishment of policy making and
administrative organizations internal to the judicial branch. There will be particular
emphasis on the three areas of the central administrative system that impede the effective
administration of the system-- human resource management,  the statistical and
management information reporting systems and the planning function. The current
personnel system has numerous inconsistencies, such as judges in the same position being
paid different salaries and judicial appointments being made without regard to a judicial
career ladder. This phenomenon is the result of an evaluation and classification of judges
carried out by the executive branch.
The elements of a judicial branch personnel system (authority for, selection,
qualifications, compensation, evaluation, promotion, appointment, administrative
responsibilities and procedures) will be put in place during the Project. Focus also will be
on developing judicial statistical and management information systems in order to have
the needed information for allocating resources.  The planning function will be
introduced to transform the judicial branch from a reactive body to one that plans the
allocation of its resources.
Focus of the case administration will be at the trial court level, primarily to give judges
and non-judicial personnel the modem tools to perform their duties. Activities will take
into account the capacity of the system to absorb new methods and technology. The
focus will be on basic records management, introducing automation (word processing,
indexing, basic calendar activities) through personal computers and printers and the



- 23 -
introduction of standardized legal and administrative forms to complement the
introduction of computer technology. Since the proceedings in the WBG court system
are oral, equipment (tape recorders) will be provided to maintain a record of proceedings.
Training and documentation will be an integral part of the above activities.
There are seven defined subcomponents of the court administration component:
1.   Assist in the creation of a central administrative function to implement
administrative policies established by the judicial branch including hunan
resources, budget and finance, planning and management
information/statistics.
2.    Establish a planning function and develop a long range plan for facilities.
3.    Establish a personnel classification system.
4.    Improve the records management system including revising numbering
systems, purchasing record keeping equipment, and establishing a system
of indices and registers.
5.   Improve the judicial statistical and management information system to
assist in the process of establishing case processing and administrative
standards and methods for measuring and monitoring system performance.
6.   Improve the basic equipment of the courts by purchasing basic automation
systems including providing a system for maintaining a record of oral
proceedings.
7.   Introduce standardized legal and administrative forms.



- 24 -
TERMS OF REFERENCE BY SUBCOMPONENT
SUBCOMPONENT: CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
Assistance in the Creation of a Central Administrative Function to Implement
Administrative Policies Established by the Judicial Branch
There are two basic issues to consider in establishing an effective judicial administration
system--first, how overall policies will be established and second, how those policies will
be administered. The lack of integration arnong the various levels of courts and the
personnel in those courts into an institutional framework undermines the effectiveness of
the individual parts.
To establish such policies there must be recognition that there should be a separation
between the judicial and purely administrative functions. Judges should set the overall
policies for the court system, but the day to day administrative work should be carried out
by professional managers. The more responsibility is delegated to the professional
administrators, the less need for administrative work by judges.
There are several models of judicial oversight in the administrative areas. In many court
systems the oversight responsibility is delegated by the other judges to the President of
the High Court or to an executive committee of judges from the highest court. In others,
a judicial council which consists of judges from the different court levels, has the
oversight responsibility. This oversight work is considered to be full time in some
systems, while in others, service on the judicial council or executive cornmittee is in
addition to the normal judicial duties.
However, all the Judges of the highest court should involve themselves in the day to day
administration of the court system. The most common result is the development of
backlogs of cases and minimization of the importance of the third branch of government.
In the WBG, prior to June 1967, a judicial council composed of judges, the Attorney
General, among others, appointed judges and carried out other oversight functions, not all
of which were associated with a true policy making judicial council. Although the
council remains on the books and functions, at least, to certify or admit lawyers to the
bar, the council has not been fully reactivated. Such a council could alleviate confusion
between the powers of the Ministry of Justice, the Judiciary, and the Judicial Council.
The proposed organic law for the judicial branch addresses these issues and assigns
increased policy making and administrative authority to the judicial branch, and the
activities proposed in the Project are consistent with the objectives of this proposed law.



- 25 -
Assuming the establishment of a policy making body (e.g. judicial council), the
administrative duties that must be assumed within the structure of the judicial branch, at a
miniimumn, consist of:
Prepare and administer the budget for the court system.
Conduct planning for the court system and produce long range (between three and
five years) plans and annual action plans outlining activities for the coming year
to achieve long range goals.
Analyze and adopt appropriate methods and procedures in administrative
processes to ensure efficiency and effectiveness.
Represent the judicial branch in dealing with other ministries, the media and the
public as delegated by the governing body.
Establish the standards (job classifications, salary levels, evaluation systems,
minimum qualifications etc.) and administer the human resource system.
Maintain a program of labor relations with the various employee groups in the
judicial system.
Administer the system of purchasing for the courts.
Develop and offer appropriate training programs in both technical and general
managerial areas for judicial and non-judicial employees.
Provide technical consulting assistance to local courts to improve case
management and administrative systems.
Oversee the use of technology in the court system and provide technical assistance
in the area of office systems including computerization.
Maintain court facilities operated by the judicial branch and oversee the
development and maintenance of standards for new facilities.
Administer the financial system of the court system.
Prepare and maintain manuals of operation for administrative and non-judicial
clerical functions.
Conduct special studies and analyses as required to improve the administration of
the court system, including analysis of the distribution of personnel, determine
the needs for new courts and judicial positions, determine the causes of delay in
the courts etc.



- 26 -
Prepare periodic and, at least, annual reports on the condition of the courts
including statistical information on the volume of work received and disposed of
by the different courts in the system.
Maintain a service mentality among the representatives of the judicial branch in
dealing with the clients of the court and ensure that any barriers to access to the
courts whether physical(access for the disabled for example), language or other
are removed.
Currently in WBG, to the extent that the above functions currently are carried out, they
are performed within the Ministry of Justice by only two individuals, a financial officer
and a purchasing officer. The Ministry determines the budget assigned to the judiciary.
There is no planning, human resource, management information or statistical offices
within the administration of the judiciary. The highest ranking non-judicial person is the
clerk of the high court who does not participate in the overall administration of the court
system as an administrative director of the courts would, but rather oversees the
processing of cases filed in the high court. (He does carry out an audit function of the
other clerks in the system in Gaza, almost on a voluntary basis, according to the
incumbent). There are chief clerks in each court, but they process case files.
The central administrative office that is recommnended for Project start-up will consist of
the following positions
1.    Administrative and Finance Director
2.    Planning and Management Information
3.    Human Resources
4.    Systems/Statistics Manager
The four positions will provide critical support to the judicial branch.
Project activities will include a study to develop the appropriate models for WBG to
create both policy making and administration offices, the provision of the equipment
necessary to start-up the administrative offices under the current system, the PA would
create these new positions within the classification system, and the judiciary would name
the personnel to these offices and agree on a time table to assume the financing of the
positions. The Project will finance all four positions for the duration of the Project. The
PA would assume financing of these positions immediately following the completion of
the Project.



- 27 -
SUB COMPONENT: PLANNING AND ANALYSIS
Establish Planning Function and Develop Long Range Plan for Facilities
Well defined development goals and implementation plans are a basic step for the
judiciary to gain the confidence of the other branches of government and the public as
well as ensure that their resources are allocated appropriately.
At this time, the planning function in the judicial branch does not exist. Major initiatives
need to be undertaken to institutionalize planning. These actions include:
Integrate and institutionalize the planning function at all levels of the
administration of the court system especially in budgeting, resource and personnel
allocation and facilities planning;
Hold workshops on planning and analytical methods;
Create a planning unit directly related to the budget preparation process in the
central administration offices and in provincial courts as feasible;
Produce a five year plan the WBG court system; and
Draft annual plans that are tied to the budget preparation process and distribute
annual plans throughout the judiciary outlining objectives and proposed
extraordinary activities for improving the administration of justice.
Project activities will initially include the provision of support the creation of the
planning office.
SUBCOMPONENT:   HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Establish a Human Resource Management System Including Authority for
Selection, Qualifications, Compensation Levels, Evaluation, Promotion, Training
Requirements, and Appointment Procedures for Judicial and Non-Judicial
Personnel and Administrative Responsibilities and Procedures
The current personnel system negatively affects the ability of the court to attract highly
qualified judges and support personnel to the judiciary. Judges are paid between 3,000
and 5,000 shekels per month. The President of the High Court receives 6,350 shekels or
approximately $2,200 per month.
According to data received, the distribution ofjudicial positions is the following:
GAZA                 WEST BANK
Magistrates                         7                        8
District                            7                       10



- 28 -
High Court                           1 1                       4
TOTAL                                25                        22
The High Court recommends that the employment of 12 more judges given the current
workload. In general, the perception is that the system is under staffed. The judicial
branch has asked for 46 additional non-judicial staff members for Gaza (Appendix 1),
which would represent a 75% increase of the current non-judicial staff.
The number of non-judicial personnel in Gaza is 58 and, in the West Bank, it is
approximately 80 (see Appendix 1 for the distribution of personnel in the courts in Gaza).
The court recently hired 20 police clerks to serve as courtroom clerks and notifiers in
Gaza to meet the increased workload.
The current ratio of judges to support staff (approximately one to two) is extremely low
compared to other judicial systems in the world. In general, the number of personnel--
judicial and non-judicial--is extremely low for a population of over 2 million, which
reflects the lack of use of the system in the past. It is assumed that there will be a need
for significant growth in personnel in the coming years to address expected increases in
filings.
The personnel system is not uniformly applied, and there are reports of judges in similar
positions receiving different salaries, and judges in lower courts receiving salaries higher
than judges in higher courts.
Non judicial staff positions and appointments are determined by the Ministry of Justice.
Once appointed, they are supervised and disciplined by the court system. Non-judicial
personnel receive approximately 800-1,200 shekels per month.
New appointees to the judicial branch, both judges and administrative personnel, often
are not prepared for the jurisdictional and administrative responsibilities of their
positions. There is no training program for either judges or non-judicial personnel, nor
are there any procedure manuals outlining trial practice, case processing guidelines or
administrative procedures to guide them (see Judicial Training Terms of Reference).



-29 -
Policies and procedures for a human resource system should include:
Selection
Qualifications
Compensation levels
Evaluation
Promotion
Training requirements
Appointment procedures for judicial and non-judicial personnel
Administrative responsibilities and procedures
Project activities will consist of creating the human resource office in the judicial branch
and technical assistance to establish the elements of the personnel system, reflecting the
policy decisions adopted by the judicial branch and consistent with overall PA laws and
regulations. Additional technical assistance will be provided to assist in the design and
implementation of the system itself including the development of procedures, forms and
manuals. Training will be provided for judicial and non-judicial personnel who will
administer the human resource system.
SUBCOMPONENT:   RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Improve the Records Management System Including Numbering Systems, Record
Keeping Equipment, Indices and Registers
Records management is an active, continuing program for controlling the intake,
maintenance, use and disposition of records. The interdependence of court records and
court operations makes record management a priority for the trial courts. The basic
functions of court--disposing of cases and adjunct operations as well as financial and
statistical reporting -- rely on court records for their accuracy.
The current records management system consists of a single register book where the
progress of a case is noted. Each court uses its own numbering system and develops its
own internal register system to maintain control over records. There are no standards on
maintenance of records, types of record keeping equipment, or systems that should be
used. Calendaring is done manually by the judges themselves in their personal calendars.
Files are maintained in folders as required by law. There is no use of automation to track
the progress of cases, monitor cases requiring action or cases which are unreasonably
delayed. Improvement to the records management system will improve the efficiency
and prepare the court for the expected increased in caseloads.
Although the records are orderly the current manual system is not geared to high volume
filings. For example, in Ramallah, the filing system in the court of appeals is orderly.
Files are kept in file folders in numbered order and under lock and key. There is a
secondary storage area for closed case files which is also well maintained. The clerk



- 30 -
controls the movement of case files in the court house and maintains visual control of
attorneys reviewing case files, an important element in protecting the integrity of the
files. The problem lies in the future in which the volumes will and already have begun to
increase dramatically.
Project activities will consist of technical assistance in defining and documenting
elements of the new system, purchasing necessary basic equipment, documenting the new
system in operational manuals and training for personnel. Specific activities will include
an initial overview of the current records management system; adopting standards for
appropriate records management equipment; installing new records management
equipment; revising the records retention schedule to allow for the destruction of
unnecessary records; and creating a standing records management committee to oversee
this area.
Consultants will survey the present system of records retention to determine if there are
some inactive records which no longer have a useful legal life and can therefore be
destroyed or sent to secondary storage. An analysis will be conducted on how inactive
records are stored to determine if these processes should be modified. Consideration
should be given whether there should be a judicial archive in the West Bank or Gaza or in
both.
The consultants will also create a manual which will include the following: rules for
numbering case files; a determination of the number and locale of registries on court
actions; methods for handling exhibits; standards for records security, including access to
records; and environmental controls for the protection of records against natural disaster.
The consultants will give consideration to what legislative reform, if any, may be
necessary to ensure adherence to the new system.
There will be specific analysis of elements of the current system which are problematic
such as the system for notifying parties of appearances. The court currently uses a system
of mail and personal notification. Judges report that a major source of delay is that the
parties do not respond to the notification because they do not receive the notification.
Twenty five percent of the requests for additional personnel for Gaza is for notifiers.
Once the standards for records management equipment are established, Project activity
will focus on upgrading the records management equipment in the courts. In particular,
consideration will be given to the most appropriate type of filing equipment, the
introduction of manual register of action or case history cards, and specialized register
equipment. The appropriate equipment will be introduced into the records management
system.



- 31 -
SUBCOMPONENT:            JUDICIAL  STATISTICS  AND   MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION
Improve the Judicial Statistical and Management Information System to Assist in
Defrning Workload Needs, Establish Case Processing and Accountability Standards
and Analyze the Causes of Delay
There currently is a judicial statistics program and reports on filings and dispositions are
sent by the courts to the President of the High Court in Gaza. Automation is not used to
track the progress of cases, uncover cases requiring action or cases which are
unreasonably delayed. Improvement of the record management system will enhance
efficiency and prepare the courts for the expected increased in caseloads (see the Gaza
monthly statistical reports for September in Appendix 2). According to the overall
statistics, the workload in the courts is increasing at dramatic levels and backlogs are
developing. The Gaza report for November shows the following:
Pending           Terminated
District Court     2,411                222
Magistrates Court   8,817              2,938
These figures suggest that, on the one hand, the population is seeking to settle disputes
through the judicial system and, on the other hand, the current system is not capable of
dealing with the volume of cases.
An objective of this component of the Project is to improve the current statistical system
and develop standards to measure progress within the courts. Project activity will focus
on improving the current statistical system in terms of accuracy and ensuring that the
appropriate data elements are maintained.
The concept of measuring the performance of the judicial system has not been a subject
of focus yet in WBG. There generally are no standards to control the movement of cases
and administrative behavior except in the criminal law area. For judges to be active
managers of their caseloads, there need to be case processing standards to provide a basis
for measurement of progress, current status and backlogs. Similarly with administrative
responsibilities, standards of practice need to be developed and built into the management
reporting system.
The steps to be taken include:
Development of performance standards for the court system which focus on
delivering services to the users of the court system.



- 32 -
Institution of methods to make the court system accountable to the public through
such techniques as the state of courts annual report and, satisfaction surveys of the
users of the courts.
Implementation internal monitoring of performance through the creation of
operational audit functions.
Introduction of quality management concepts into the administrative structure
Technical assistance will be provided to conduct the following: review the current
statistical system relative to management information objectives and model judicial
management information systems in use or proposed for similar court systems such as in
Egypt and Jordan; summarize the statistics that are currently available into an annual
report on judicial workload; establish new reporting regulations, forms and instructions;
conduct training for personnel responsible to report to the manual statistical system; and,
if appropriate, introduce software to allow for the initiation of the use of automation in
the statistical reporting system.
SUBCOMPONENT: TECHNOLOGY
Improve the Basic Equipment of the Courts, Mainly Basic Automation Systems
including Providing a System for Maintaining a Record of Oral Proceedings.
Efficiency of the courts is being improved throughout the world by the introduction of
modem information technology. As this technology expands, it is becoming cheaper and
therefore more accessible. Pre-packaged user friendly software makes it easier for users
to absorb technology.
Within the judicial framework, the areas that can be significantly improved by the
introduction of basic automation with pre-packaged software are:
1)    Preparing judicial decisions and orders.
2)    Maintaining a written transcript of proceedings.
3)    Correspondence.
4)    Automating required registers.
5)    Creating a case history (registers of actions).
6)    Creating court calendars.
7)    Creating systems to trigger events such as court appearances.
8)    Maintaining required judicial statistics.
Given the current vacuum of technology in the WBG court system, the most basic
systems are required. Only a few typewriters and copiers are in use in the system now.
The introduction of technology will be accompanied by intensive training in typing, word
processing, and basic data functions.



- 33 -
A specialized function will be the introduction of tape recorders to create a record of oral
proceedings. Currently the record of proceedings is maintained by hand written notes.
As the judiciary develops, the ability to have a verbatim record will become increasingly
important.
The computers that will be purchased will have the greatest memory and operating
capacities that are reasonable to purchase for the proposed applications. At a minimum,
the equipment should have the following characteristics:
486 or Pentium
16 MB of RAM
600 MB hard drive
Color monitor
Mouse
CD Rom player and speaker
Modem 28.8
Pre-Installed software including word processing and spread sheet applications
The computers will be equipped with CD Rom capability to allow for the use of the
computers in training and research functions. It is envisioned that training materials will
be produced in the CD Rom medium which will allow for interactive use by the judicial
and non-judicial personnel.  Printers will be ink jet for individual uses or laser if
computers can be networked. Tape recorders will be basic systems with approximately
five microphones for in-court operations.
Project activity will involve the purchase of equipment, the development of operational
manuals and training programs.
SUBCOMPONENT: STANDARD FORMS
Introduce Standardized Legal and Administrative Forms
Standardized forms for use by judges and lawyers are a technique that has been
successfully used to improve the efficiency and uniformity of practice in the courts. There
is some evidence of legal forms in the current case processing system. In addition, it is
reported that private lawyers have developed their own forms. Such forms can ensure that
necessary steps in the legal process are completed.
The development of standardized forms requires careful analysis of the processes to be
reflected in the forms. These processes that are outdated, inefficient or inappropriate
should be changed before incorporation into a standardized form. Consequently, the
process requires the participation of representatives of the judiciary and the bar
associations.



- 34 -
Project activities will consist of technical assistance and will focus on the following:
1)   Identify areas in which standardized approaches among all judges are appropriate.
2)    Establish a standing committee with representatives of the judicial branch, the bar
and other interested groups to oversee the development and maintenance of
standardized forms and provide the committee with appropriate professional staff.
3)    Develop standardized forms for use in the legal procedures in criminal, civil, and
all other legal areas.
4)    Develop standardized forms for use in administrative procedures.
5)    Develop training programs in the use of the standardized forms.
These activities should lead to uniformity in procedures in each court and improved
practice among lawyers. These activities will involve technical assistance, purchase of
equipment and training.



- 35 -
Structure of Activities
COMPONENT: COURT ADMINISTRATION
SUBCOMPONENT: Central Policy and Administrative Structure
a.    Develop models of policy making and           6/97-12/97
administrative bodies
b.    Adopt policy making and administrative        1/98-6/98
procedures, systems, personnel and equipment necessary
c.    Appoint staff for central administrative office  1/98
d.    Document procedures                           6/98-9/98
e.    Conduct training programs                     9/98-12/98
f.    Operationalize models in West Bank and Gaza   1/99-3/99
SUBCOMPONENT: Planning and Facilities Plan and Standards
a.    Establish planning position in central office  6/97-12/97
b.    Establish design standards and norms for the design 1/98-6/98
of judicial facilities
SUBCOMPONENT: Human Resource Management
a.    Establish elements of human resource system   6/97-12/97
b.    Document procedures, regulations, and         1/98- 3/98
administrative systems required
c.    Conduct training programs                     3/98-6/98
d.    Operationalize system in West Bank and Gaza   6/98-9/98
SUBCOMPONENT: Improve Records Management
a.    Establish elements of record management system   9/97-3/98



- 36 -
b.    Document system adopted                    3/98-6/98
c.   Improve the records management equipment    6/98-12/98
in the trial courts(computers, copiers,
fax, and tape recorders)
d.    Conduct training programs                   1/99-3/99
e.    Operationalize the system in West Bank and  4/99-6/99
Gaza
SUBCOMPONENT: Judicial Statistics and Management Information
Systems
a.    Review the current system                  6/96-9/96
b.    Develop model annual report                9/96-12/96
C.    Conduct training programs                   1/97-4/97
d.    Operationalize the system in West Bank and Gaza  5/97-8/97
SUBCOMPONENT: Introduce Modern Technology
a.    Identify appropriate technology applications  6/96-9/96
for trial courts and conduct needs assessment
for courts
b.    Develop terms of reference for hardware,    9/96-12/96
software, maintenance and training
c.    Acquire hardware                            1/97-3/97
d.    Conduct training in basic software          3/97-9/97
applications



-37 -
SUBCOMPONENT: Introduce Standardized Forms
a.    Analysis of the present procedures to determine    1/98-6/98
where standardized forms may be useful
b.    Develop forms design manual and               7/98-12/98
standardized forms
c.    Develop training programs related to use of forms  1/99-6/99
d.    Implement program in West Bank and Gaza       7/99



- 38 -
APPENDIX 1
NON-JUDICIAL PERSONNEL DISTRIBUTION
ACTUAL AND REQUESTED BY THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
December 1996
GAZA
HIGH COURT/SUPREME COURT
Current
Clerk for the High Court                             I
Court Secretary and Assistant to the Head Clerk      I
Head Clerk for the Magistrates in Khan Younis        1
Secretary and In Charge of Disciplinary Section      1
Secretary and In Charge of Law Section               1
Registration Officer                                 I
Computer Officer                                     1
Secretary                                            2
Messenger                                            4
Notifier                                             1
Total                                               14
Requested by the Judicial Branch
Secretaries to the Court                             3
Archivist                                            1
Head of the Section of Supreme Court Cases           1
Head of Revenues                                     I
Total                                                6



- 39 -
CENTRAL COURT
Current
Writer of Justice                                   1
Head Clerk for Central Court--Gaza                  1
Commander of Procedures and Possessions             I
Secretary-Committee                                 1
Committee Secretary and in Charge of Archives       1
Bailiff and Disciplinary and Court Secretary        1
Head of Appeals and Legal Appointments Secretary    I
Secretary Head of Case Laws-Land                    1
Head of Special Cases and in Charge of Typing       1
Head of Computer Section                            1
Notifier                                            3
Total                                              13
Requested by the Judicial Branch
Assistant to Writer of Justice                       I
Assistant to Head Clerk                              1
Assistant for Commander of Procedures                1
Secretary                                           2
Assistant to Divisions                              3
Notifier                                            2
Total                                               10
COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE-GAZA
Current
Deputy Clerk                                         1
Traffic Division                                     I
Writer in Traffic Division                           1
Commander of Procedures                              1
Head of Traffic Division                             1
Archivist                                            I
Notifier                                             1
Notifier and Writer when needed                      1
Notifier                                             I
Law Division                                         I
Total                                               10



- 40 -
Requested by the Judicial Branch
Head Clerk                                          1
Deputy Clerk                                        1
Disciplinary Head                                   1
Assistant Disciplinary Head                         I
Head of Law Division                                I
Assistant to the Head of the Law Division           I
Secretary                                          2
Computer Operator                                   I
Notifier                                            2
Archivist                                           2
Total                                              1 3
COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE: DEIR EL - BALAH
Current
Writer of Justice                                   1
Commander of Procedures and Secretary when
required                                          I
Treasurer and Requests                              1
Writer in the Law Division                          1
Traffic Division                                    1
Disciplinary Section and Assistant Treasurer        1
Disciplinary Section and Assistant Secretary        I
Secretary and Archivist                             I
Notifier                                            I
Total                                               9
Personnel Requested by the Judicial Branch
Notifier                                            3
Traffic Division                                    1
Secretary                                           1
Computer Operator                                   1
Total                                               6



- 41 -
COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE: KHAN YOUNIS
Current
Deputy to Head Clerk and Law Writer and Bar
Requests                                          1
Disciplinary Measures                              1
Treasurer                                          I
Law Division and Traffic Violations                I
Archivist and Secretary                            1
Notifier                                           I
Total                                              6
Personnel Requested by the Judicial Branch
Notifier                                           3
Traffic Division Secretary                         1
Secretary                                          1
Computer Operator                                  1
Total                                              6
COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE: RAFAH
Current
Head Clerk and Writer of Laws                      1
Secretary                                          1
Head of Justice                                    I
Treasurer and Assistant Clerk                      I
Secretary and Violations Division                  1
Disciplinary Division                              1
Notifier                                           3
Total                                              9
Requested by the Judicial Branch
Notifier                                           2
Secretary                                          1
Traffic Division                                   I
Computer Operator                                  1
Total                                              5
TOTALS
CURRENT                                            58
REQUESTED BY THE JUDICIAL BRANCH                   46



-42 -
APPENDIX 2
GAZA JUDICIAL BRANCH SEPTEMBER 1996
STATISTICAL REPORT
CATEGORY                       FILED YR TO       FILED         TERMINATED          BACKLOG
DATE
Supreme Justice                                        56             16               20                 52
Civil Appeals                                          43             4                 6                 41
Disciplinary Appeals                                   23             0                 2                 21
riminal Cases                                         24             1                1                  34
Varied Applications                                    20             77               58                 29
Total Suprerne Court Cases                             176            98               87                187
Centralized Beginners Law                              799            54               22                831
Centralized Beginners Lands                            286            11                3                294
Centralized Appeals Law                                64             4                 6                 62
entralized Disciplinary Law                           182            15               16                181
Centralized Disciplinary Cases                         80             8                 7                 81
entral Applications                                   421            83               54                450
Total Centralized Cases                               1832            175              108               1899
Beginners Magistrate Law                              1932           210               147               1995
Beginners Land Magistrate                              98              2                4                 96
Criminal Investigation Crimes                          440            86               22                 504
Traffic Magistrate Division                            906            147              81                 972
Arbitration Division                                   1868           379              213               2034
Traffic Violations                                     164            349             3505                150



- 43 -
Juvenile Felonies                                   15            0               3                12
Folonies Division                                   17            3               7                63
unicipal Violations                               674          618             598               694
Total Magistrat Cas                                5408         4315            3972              5751
Total Cases                                        7416         4588            4167              7827
Curt Division                                     496           55               4               547
Magistrate Court-Gaza                              197           14               1               210
Magistrato Court-Deir EI-Balah                     262           14               4               272
agistrate Court-Khan Younis                       300           9               3                306
Magistrate Court-Rafah                             421           11               5               427
Total Magistrate Procedures                        1676          103             17               1762



- 44 -
KHAN YOUNIS MAGISTRATE COURT:
FIUNGS AND DISPOSITIONS NOVEMBER
1995 AND 1996
CATEGORY                FILED YEAR   FILED    TERMINATED    BACKLOG
TO DATE
November 1995
Criminal
Felony                                    74         22           12             84
Misdemeanors                             224          3           130            97
Infractions(contraventiones)             3342        92           86            3348
Civil                                     289         41           24            306
Land                                       10         0             2              8
November 1996
riminal
Felony                                   171         10           19             162
Misdemeanor                              902        260           124           1038
Infractions                              424         70           63            431
ivii                                     485         34           43            476
Land                                       9           0            2              7



- 45 -
DEIR EL BALAH DISTRICT COURT:
FILINGS AND DISPOSITIONS NOVEMBER
1996
CATEGORY                  FILED YR    FILED    TERMINATED    BACKLOG
TO DATE
riminal
Felony                                   38          9            10             37
Misdemeanors                             74          56           34             96
Infractions(contraventiones)              33         26           26             33
Other Infractions                       3,492       336           332           3496
Civil                                     215         28           39            204
Land                                       17         0             5             12
Executive Cases                           285         36           20            301



- 46 -
VIII. JUDICIAL EDUCATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.    The West Bank and Gaza judiciaries are separated both by geography and their
different legal heritages and traditions. The West Bank legal structures and approach are
modeled after civil law systems while Gaza laws, structures and legal approach are
strongly influenced by the English model. In addition to the problem of competing legal
structures, the status, powers and responsibilities of senior officials have yet to be
determined.
2.    The justice system is considered by many to warrant improvement insofar as
impartiality, competence and efficiency are concerned. It is generally agreed that it is a
priority to improve the reality and perception of judicial impartiality, competence and
efficiency. Judicial education programs designed to promote these qualities for judges of
all courts, prosecutors and court support staff will facilitate the achievement of these
objectives. In view of the present transitional period of legislation this component
emphasizes training in judicial integrity, independence, accountability and efficiency
rather than competency. The only judicial education programs existing at this time are
occasional ad-hoc ones of foreign donors. Judicial education is also required to
successfully implement the other judicial reform components of the legal development
Project.
3.    There is also a need for judicial working tools, - copies of laws, case reports,
practice notes, scholarly comments and text books. While some of these materials are
available, the supply is inadequate and unevenly distributed. A systematic assessment by
the judges of the material they need to properly do their work is required. This will be
coordinated with the material being disseminated under the legal information component
of this Project.
4.    The definition of the Judiciary differs between the West Bank and Gaza. In West
Bank, the prosecutors are "judges" and part of the judiciary. This is not so in Gaza with
its British tradition. However, the Gaza Attorney General, the head of the prosecutors, is
himself a High Court Judge and two senior members of his staff are seconded judges.
The Attorney General's office is a prime source of candidates for the magistracy, (the first
rung of what is generally a career judicial ladder). For these reasons the prosecutors are
included in the judicial education Project along with the judges (including magistrates)
and judicial support staff.
5.    The existing conditions and present lack of judicial education capacity will
require more consultant time and funding than usual for the successful design and



- 47 -
implementation of the judicial education program. The component also should be
carefully supervised and monitored. However, despite the difficulties, all segments of the
justice system are supportive of the Project and give high priority to judicial education.
The President of the High Court has agreed to appoint a judicial education committee to
work with the component consultant. In light of the circumstances, it may be best to have
a committee with prosecutorial and support staff representation in addition to the judges.
The concept of judicial independence will be protected as long as the judges control the
judicial curriculum and faculty.
Objectives
6.    The objective of judicial education is to support an impartial, effective, competent
and efficient judiciary. This involves not only the fact but also the community's
perception that judges are free from external influence that might affect their impartiality.
It also includes an understanding of the role and function of the judiciary in performing
the public service of dispute resolution. Such a well functioning judiciary attracts foreign
and national investment.
Scope of Work
(a)   The judicial education committee will supervise the implementation of
this component and will be assisted in performing its functions by a Consultant
for the following purposes:
(i)   to develop into a sustainable judicial education structure using
internationally accepted standards of curriculum development and
interactive teaching methods;
(ii)  to supervise a resource center for judicial education that would
ensure cataloguing and collecting judicial education print, audio
and video materials;
(iii) to network with regional and international judicial education
bodies to share human and material resources;
(iv)  to study and adopt judicial education objectives and standards;
(v)   to train judicial educators - mostly judges - to be the nucleus of the
judicial education committee. They will be trained to teach judges
substantive law and the concepts of an impartial and accountable
judiciary, judicial discretion, culture of service, their practical
applications and necessary support mechanism. To do this, they
will be taught substantive subjects including commercial law, as
well as pedagogical techniques useful to achieve the changes in
thinking processes and attitudes required to create a judiciary able
to support a market economy;



- 48 -
(vi)  to develop a judicial education curriculum that responds to
community perceptions of needs in the justice system. This will
involve the design and implementation of a needs analysis survey
of the Bench, Bar, Court Support Staff, business community and
community at large;
(vii)  to develop a long range plan for judicial education;
(viii) to design and implement internal collegial and self study programs
in the areas of judicial impartiality, independence, effectiveness,
professionalism, efficiency and competence as follows:
* collegial seminars:
-    judges and magistrates - 18 residential days for 150
participants and 12 non-residential days for 150
participants;
-   judicial support staff - 9 non-residential days for 420
participants;
-    prosecutors - 18 non-residential days for 96 participants.
*  orientation programs:
-   judges and magistrates - 12 days for 60 participants;
-   judicial support staff- 12 non-residential days for 60
participants;
-    prosecutors - 12 non residential for 30 participants.
-   self-study programs and tools;
- mentoring programs;
*   external study tours to motivate and train "trainers"; these will
require a commitment by participants to transfer the
knowledge gained to their colleagues within four months of
his or her return;
*   listing and dissemination of print material - laws, textbooks,
scholarly journals necessary for the effective performance of
judicial duties; and
seminars for the development of Codes of Ethics and Conduct
- development of draft Codes of Conduct for judges,
magistrates, judicial support staff and prosecutors. These
Codes will include a disciplinary process for violation of the
Code standards accessible by the public. The disciplinary
process for judges and magistrates will be under the control of
the judiciary to protect the concept ofjudicial independence.



- 49 -
(ix)  to design and implement a limited extemal study program to
motivate and inspire judicial reform as well as to seek international
solutions to common problems; such an extemal study tour would
be conditional on the participants formally transferring the
knowledge gained to colleagues on his/her return and on a
transparent selection process;
(x)   to identify and disseminate, as the budget allows, essential print
judicial "tools" such as laws text books, and scholarly periodicals;
(xi)  to coordinate and, if appropriate, to provide training to support
other Project components (ADR, mediation, court administration,
human resources) N.B. funding for this training is outside this
component budget;
(xii)  to develop and disseminate Bench books for judges and
magistrates, manuals for prosecutors and judicial support staff; and
(xiii) to develop and disseminate codes of ethics and conduct linked to a
transparent and accessible disciplinary process, thereby publicly
articulating ethical standards;
(xiv)  to encourage the formation of professional associations of judges,
magistrates, prosecutors and court support staff to network
regionally and internationally.
Curriculum
7.    The curriculum will address the areas of integrity, impartiality, effectiveness,
efficiency and competency. In view of the changing state of substantive law emphasis
will be placed on impartiality, independence, effectiveness and efficiency.
8.    The programs for judges and magistrates will include the following topics:
(a)   judicial impartiality, judicial independence, judicial accountability, case
flow management, the science of fact finding, judicial reasoning, judicial
skills (efficient and impartial chairmanship, sensitivity to the needs of
witnesses, litigants, and the public, ensuring the rules of natural justice are
enforced), court room management, judicial conduct on and off the Bench,
judicial ethics, judgment writing, stress management and adapting to
change, the exercise of judicial discretion, judicial activism, computer
skills for judges, substantive commercial law;
(b)   the program for the judicial support staff will include the following topics:



- 50 -
(i)   court administrators - work ethics and conduct, case flow
management, service oriented work performance, time and
personnel management, computer skills, record keeping, statistics,
working to goals, adapting to change, court structure and
terminology, uniformity in forms, etc.;
(ii)   court reporters - work ethics and conduct, court reporting skills
(preparing transcripts, monitoring electronic tapes, recording
machines, maintaining a court room log and exhibit list), computer
skills, court structure and terminology, court room decorum, time
management, working to goals, service oriented work
performance, adapting to change;
(iii)  bailiffs (executioners) - work ethics and conduct, service oriented
work performance, time and personnel management, record
keeping, limited computer skills, working to goals, adapting to
change, court structure and terminology, time management,
uniformity of forms, skills required to levy executions, etc.;
(c)   the program for the prosecutors will include the following topics:
advocacy skills, professional ethics and conduct, computer skills, case
flow management, sensitivity to the needs of witness, litigants and the
public, time management, working to goals, adapting to change,
substantial commercial law.
9.    After consultation with the President of the High Court and the judicial education
committee, the consultant will design teaching materials of high international standard to
support the programs. These shall place emphasis on interactive teaching methods and
includes:
(a)    Written hypotheticals;
(b)   Audio and videotapes;
(c)    Translation into Arabic of the audio of useful existing judicial education
tapes;
(d)   Translation into Arabic of existing workbooks to use with tapes;
(e)   Preparation of workbooks to be used with videotapes;
(f)    Preparation of overhead transparencies;
(g)   Preparation of interactive tapes;
(h)   Preparation of self evaluated tests;
(i)    Preparation of Bench books and manuals for prosecutors and judicial
support staff;
(j)    Preparation of a list of regional and international judicial education bodies
with contact persons;



-51 -
(k)   Preparation of teaching plans;
(1)   Preparation of a draft five year plan for judicial education;
(m)  Preparation of a catalog available of judicial education resources in West
Bank Gaza; and
(n)   Preparation of a draft needs analysis for use in determining curricula.
Teaching Methods
* Lectures (to be kept to a minimum)
* Workshops
* Syndicates in plenary session
* Distance learning
* Video plus workbooks
* Panel discussions
* Assignments
* Dramatic presentations and role playing
Teaching Tools
* Audio and video tapes
* Hypothetical
* Workbooks
* Overhead transparencies
e Interactive tapes
- Self-evaluated tests
3 Manuals
* Bench books
- Model codes of ethics
10.   The consultant will provide the judicial education committee with a full written
description/presentation of his/her recommended teaching tools, materials and copies of
suggested video and audio tapes sufficiently prior to their use that any required changes
may be made.
11.   The consultant will revise his/her teaching materials in light of comments of the
President of the High Court and the judicial education committee in a manner that will
achieve the objective of providing judicial education of high international standards on
the subjects identified.
12.   The consultant will attend all judicial education programs presented under these
Terms of Reference.
13.   The consultant will design and execute monitoring surveys as required by these
Terms of Reference.



-52 -
Inputs
14.   Inputs required from the consultant working under the direction of the Judicial
Education Committee:
(a)   9 orientation programs designed and presented (36 days);
(b)   30 continuing education days for judges and magistrates;
(c)   9 continuing education days for judicial support staff;
(d)    18 continuing education days for prosecutors;
(e)   teaching tools (written hypotheticals, English and Arabic audio and video
tapes, translation of tapes into Arabic);
(f)   preparation of workbooks, overhead transparencies, interactive tapes, self
evaluated tests, and reaching plans;
(g)   preparation and dissemination of Bench books for judges and magistrates
and manuals for court support staff and prosecutors;
(h)   preparation of a list of regional and international judicial education
programs and contact names;
(i)    preparation of a draft five year plan for judicial education;
(j)   the cataloguing and storage of available judicial education resources in
West Bank Gaza;
(k)   preparation of a needs analysis survey for use in determining curricula;
(1)   comparative samples of judicial education objectives and standards;
(m)   comparative samples of national Codes of Ethics and Conducts (justice
sector); and
(n)   preparation of draft Judicial Code of Conduct and Ethics, prosecutorial
Code of Conduct and Ethics and Court Support Staff Code Of Conduct
and Ethics.
Outputs
(a)   judges and magistrates - 60 participants given 4 days of orientation
training and 150 participants given 10 days of continuing judicial
education training;
(b)   judicial support staff - 60 participants given 4 days of orientation training
and 420 participants given 3 days continuing judicial education training;
(c)   prosecutors - 30 participants given 4 days of orientation training and 96
participants given 6 days continuing judicial education training;
(d)   mentoring programs and external study tours
(e)   identification and dissemination of essential print material and Codes of
Ethics and Conduct;
(f)    delivery of teaching tools (written hypotheticals, English and Arabic audio
and video tapes, translation of tapes in Arabic)



- 53 -
(g)   delivery of workbooks, overhead transparencies, interactive tapes, self
evaluated tests, and teaching plans;
(h)   delivery of Bench books for judges and magistrates and manuals for court
support staff and prosecutors;
(i)   delivery of a list of regional and international judicial education programs
and contact names;
(j)   delivery of a draft five year plan for judicial education, including
supporting budgets and detailed programs;
(k)   the cataloguing and storage of available judicial education resources in
West Bank Gaza;
(1)   delivery of a needs analysis survey for use in consulting the community
about their perceived weaknesses of the justice system;
(m)   a list of funders of collegial programs and external study tours;
(n)   a catalogue of available judicial education resources.
(o)   participatory development of Codes of Ethics and Conduct
(judges/magistrates, prosecutors and court support staff); dissemination of
Codes;
(p)   uniform objectives and standards of judicial education for the West Bank
and Gaza.
Performance Standards
15.   The consultant will design and implement programs which will demonstrate the
best practices in judicial education including program administration, faculty
development and evaluation methodology.
Methodology
16.   The methodology will include the consultant working with the judicial education
committee nominated by the President of the High Court and assisting them to take a
proprietary stance toward judicial education by establishing a judicial education resource
center. The consultant will assist the judicial education committee to assume ongoing
responsibility for the design and implementation of judicial education. The methodology
will also involve the listing by the judiciary of the required print judicial "tools" for
purchase and dissemination as described in the legal dissemination component.
17.   The consultant will provide the judicial education committee with comparative
examples of other nations' Codes of Ethics (justice sector) and prepared draft codes for
West Bank and Gaza. Seminars should be arranged to ensure that all those affected by
the standards to be articulated in the Codes have an opportunity to review a draft code
and express their view. Subsequent to the adoption by the judiciary of the codes, a
second round of seminars should be held to ensure familiarity with their provisions.
Practical hypothetical fact situations applying standards should be discussed. The same
participatory methodology should be used in the development of national judicial
education objectives and standards and the development of curricula.



- 54 -
Qualifications
18.   The consultant should be, or should include, a judge or a forner judge with at
least seven years of judicial experience. The consultant should have, or should include, a
judge with at least five years experience in the administration and presentation of judicial
education programs. The consultant should be knowledgeable about modem judicial
education techniques on attitudinal change. The ability to speak Arabic is desirable.
Strong communication and interpersonal skills are required. Knowledge and/or
experience in regional jurisdictions would be an advantage but is not essential. Previous
work in legal or judicial education in the Middle East would be an advantage but is not
essential. If the consultant has no formal training in pedagogy, an additional adult
education consultant should be engaged.
Evaluation
19.   Evaluation is required to measure the objectives of the program against its
achievements. This will be done by measuring its efficiency and effectiveness. To
measure the former, the consultant will report on how many of the designated physically
determinable goals of these Terms of Reference were achieved within their assigned time
frame e.g.
* the number of judges trained,
* the number of prosecutors trained, and
* the number ofjudicial support trained,
* the number of Bench books, manuals and other material prepared and disseminated;
* the number of teaching tools produced,
* the number of collegial programs designed and delivered,
* the mentoring programs designed and delivered,
* the number of external study tours designed and arranged, etc.
20.   The effectiveness of the program in learning gain, attitudinal and behavior change
and improved professional conduct and performance will be measured by a combination
of:
* pre-, post-Project and year-end professional survey of internationally
accepted standards to be designed by the consultant and approved by the
judicial education committee and the PIU;
*  participant satisfaction and self evaluation interviews;
*  assessment of court data and records;
*  personal interviews with designated officials;
*  independent expert appraisal



- 55 -
Reporting Requirements
21.   The following written reports shall be produced:
(a)   A quarterly report
(i)    giving the progress achieved in the planning process including the
teaching tools and materials developed;
(ii)   detailing the progress achieved in the consultation with the
President of the High Court and judicial education committee;
(b)   A report containing the results of the needs analysis survey used as an aid
in determining the curriculum content; and
(c)   A bi-annual report (mid-term) and, if required, a financial report of the
progress made to date in achieving the component objectives including the
required evaluations teaching tools and materials developed.
Schedule and Procedure
July 1997    - Establishment of judicial education committee;
- Selection of consultant;
- Seminar to introduce the judicial education component to judges and
prosecutors and to advise the participation of the standards they should
require of the Project. Similar seminar for court support staff.
August to    - Determination of national judicial education standards and objectives,
December       and curriculum needs analysis tools
1997         - External "train the trainer" study tours for 1 judge, 1 magistrate and 1
prosecutor.
- Development or outline of draft ethics codes (judges, prosecutors and
support staff) and associated teaching tools.
- Development of self learning and collegial teaching tools.
- Design and delivery of collegial programs.



- 56 -
January to    - Collegial programs designed and delivered.
December    - Orientation programs development and presentation.
1998
- Mentoring program development.
- Bench books and manuals development.
- Code of conduct seminars and discussions.
- External "train the trainers" programs selected; candidates selected -
agreed upon, transparent selection process monitored. Responsibilities for
selected candidates on their return agreed upon and monitored.
- Support given to professional judges, prosecutors and court support staff
associations to strengthen professional standards.
- Revision, as required, of teaching tools.
- Mentoring program designed and implemented.
January to    - Collegial programs designed and delivered.
December    - Orientation programs revision and presentation.
1999        - Mentoring programs implemented continued and monitored.
- Bench books and manuals for prosecutors and court staff completed and
disseminated.
- Draft codes of conduct prepared and disseminated; discussion meetings
held to solicit comments.
- External "train the trainer" study programs selected; candidates agreed
upon and transparent selection process monitored. Responsibilities for
selected candidates on their return agreed upon and monitored.
- Support given to professional judges, prosecutors and court support staff
associations to strengthen professional standards.
- Revision, as required, of teaching tools.
- Mentoring program assessed and redesigned, if necessary, and
implemented.



- 57 -
January to    - Collegial programs designed and delivered.
June 2000    - Orientation programs revision and presentation, if necessary.
- Mentoring programs continued and monitored and assessed.
- Use of Bench books and manuals encouraged and monitored.
- Seminars to adopt codes of conduct.
- External "train the trainer" study programs continue.
- Responsibilities for selected candidates on their return agreed upon and
monitored.
- Support given to professional associations to strengthen professional
standards.
- Revision, as required, of teaching tools.



- 58 -
IX. STEERING COMMITEE AND
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.0 STEERING COMMITTEE (SC)
1.1   The Steering Committee (SC) will be chaired by the Minister of Justice and will
oversee the implementation of the Project and the Program at the operational level.
1.2  It is accountable to the PA for providing quarterly progress reports on Project
implementation.
1.3   The Steering Committee will consist of:
- The Minister of Justice
- The Deputy Minister of Justice
- The President of the High Court
- The Attorney General
1.4   The SC will meet at least once a month under the chairnanship of the Minister of
Justice. The agenda for the meeting will be drafted by the Project Manager and circulated
to the members of the SC at least one week prior to the meeting for their comments,
suggested additions and modifications. The Project Manager will prepare minutes of the
meeting and seek the approval of the SC's members within one week of the meeting. The
minutes will be distributed to all agencies involved in the Project.
1.5   The SC will:
(a) approve specifications of goods to be procured under the Project and Program,
relevant bidding documents, evaluation reports on tenders, contracts with
suppliers and acceptance reports on goods received;
(b) approve terms of reference, short lists, letters of invitation, evaluation reports,
contracts and outputs of consultants;
(c) appoint evaluation committees for all major contracts relating to procurement
of goods and consulting services;
(d) oversee compliance with legal covenants, including those relating to the
procurement of goods and services; disbursement, special account, project
account, audits, preparation of work plans, quarterly progress and other
reports and the mid-term review report;



- 59 -
(e) ensure the integration and coordination of the Project and Program with other
projects and initiatives of the PA that form a part of its overall legal reform
program;
(f) ensure continued high level support for the Project and Program by keeping
the PA informed of progress in achieving the Project and Program's objectives
and seeking its intervention, whenever required, to resolve implementation
bottlenecks;
(g) monitor areas where policy and legislative actions are required within the
context and scope of the Project and take appropriate steps to ensure that such
actions are taken in a timely manner;
(h) ensure timely and effective dissemination of information about Project and
Program activities to all stakeholders, including employees of the Ministry of
Justice and the judiciary, and the public at large;
(i) review and approve each quarterly progress report'before it is submitted to
IDA;
(j) monitor the progress of each component of the Project against the benchmarks
and performance indicators established in the credit agreement, identify
bottlenecks and implementation problems, inquire with implementing
agencies about slippages in implementation, resolve inter- and intra-institution
problems affecting implementation and facilitate execution of agreed remedial
actions; and
(k) ensure that Project inputs, such as goods, consultants, training and information
campaigns, and outputs, such as consultants' reports, institutional
reorganization, administrative and legal changes, information and
management systems, business processes, norns, procedures and physical
resources are leading to the achievement of the objectives of the Project.
2.0 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU)
2.1   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is the entity responsible for administering
the implementation of Project and the Program. It is accountable to the SC.
2.2   The PIU will:
(a) consist of a Project Manager, a Technical Officer and a Financial and
Administrative Officer, and such other staff as may be necessary to carry out the
functions of the PIU. The PIU will be assisted in discharging its functions by an Adviser
to the Project Manager (who may be an individual or a group);



- 60 -
(b) carry out all activities necessary for the successful implementation of the
Project and the Program;
(c) utilize the Project documents (Trust Fund Credit Agreement, MOP and
Technical Annex) as its mandate for the design, preparation and implementation of its
work plans;
(d) collaborate with the relevant IDA personnel to ensure effective Project
performance and completion;
(e) prepare and maintain up to date work plans for approval and review by the SC
and IDA;
(f) carry out appropriate studies in support of the Project, as may be approved by
the SC, through the use of suitable technical support and/or consulting services;
(g) seek the SC's guidance on matters requiring policy direction, decision or
action;
(h) place emphasis on the definition of new functions, staffing requirements,
salary issues, incentive schemes, career paths and promotions and on infrastructural
requirements as critical elements for the successful implementation of the Project and the
Program;
(i) be responsible for the procurement, accounting and disbursement processes
and administrative services related to planning, organizing, coordinating, implementing
and monitoring the Project;
(j) employ consultants to implement, supervise, document, research, plan or
evaluate any activity undertaken or to be undertaken under the Project;
(k) establish and meet the reporting requirements of IDA;
(1) utilize project management tools to document and maintain the status of the
Project and the Program, and monitor progress in Project implementation, including the
impact of activities in each component on the Project as a whole;
(m)monitor the activities of all consultants and technical experts employed under
the Project and Program;
(n) work with the SC to review progress on Project and Program implementation;
(o) coordinate the implementation of the components of the Project on court
administration, alternative dispute resolution and judicial education with the Judicial
Committee established by order of the President of the High Court;



- 61 -
(p) facilitate any external evaluation required of the Project; and
(q) carry out, at least on a semi-annual basis, Project evaluations for consideration
by the SC and IDA.
3.0   PROJECT MANAGER
3.1    Reporting Arrangements: Reports directly to the SC.
3.2   Duration of Appointment: Duration of the Project.
3.3   Duties and Responsibilities:
3.3.1  The Project Manager's responsibility is to successfully execute the Project within
in a timely manner and within the budgetary limitations.
3.3.2  In particular, the Project Manager will:
(a) plan, organize, and coordinate the execution of the Project according to the
agreed work program;
(b) act as the main liaison between the SC and IDA, and other international donor
organizations;
(c) prepare annual implementation action plans and obtain approval of the SC,
IDA and other donors thereon;
(d) prepare monthly comprehensive status reports for presentation to the SC and
IDA;
(e) maintain the work program up-to-date, and justify and agree with the SC and
the Bank on any necessary changes;
(f) assist in the identification and appointment of any component coordinator(s)
for the PIU as may be required; and
(g) facilitate the work of all consultants working in the Ministry of Justice and the
judiciary.
3.3.3 In addition, the Project Manager will:
(a) ensure that office facilities, furniture, equipment, supplies, telephone lines and
other necessary materials and facilities are in place;



- 62 -
(b) prepare terms of reference for the PIU's staff and consultants;
(c) recruit key clerical and other support staff for the PIU in accordance with
recruitment guidelines;
(d) prepare and negotiate contracts for approval by the SC for all consultants
engaged to undertake substantive activities under the Project;
(e) collaborate with the Finance and Administration Officer to ensure support for
consultants under the Project;
(f) maintain a Project accounting/budget management system to facilitate
adequate monitoring of resource allocations for specific expenditure
categories with automatic periodic adjustments;
(g) produce and maintain a computer-based project management system which
integrates all aspects of the management of the Project, including the activities
of consultants and PIU staff;
(h) finalize the PIU's operational manual and cause it to be approved and adopted
by the SC;
(i) put in place the necessary administrative, accounting and reporting procedures
for monitoring all Project- and Program-related activities;
(j) ensure compliance with covenants under legal documents pertaining to the
Project and the Program, and submit documents for IDA's review whenever
necessary;
(k) review all terms of reference, evaluation methodologies, contracts, reports,
etc. presented by PIU staff, consultants and firms under the Project to ensure
that the PA and IDA's standard procedures are followed;
(i) liaise with IDA, MOJ, the judiciary, the Attorney General's office and the Bar
Association, coordinate supervision missions and prepare the necessary
documentation to be reviewed by IDA during these visits; and
(j) maintain working relationships with relevant institutions and related
programs/projects;
4.0   ADVISER TO THE PROJECT MANAGER
4.1   Reporting Arrangements: Reports directly to the Project Manager.
4.2.  Duration of Appointment: As needed during the lifetime of the Project.



- 63 -
4.1   Reporting Arrangements: Reports directly to the Project Manager.
4.2.  Duration of Appointment: As needed during the lifetime of the Project.
4.3.  Required Background:    The Adviser position may be assumed by an
individual or a group with the following qualifications:
(a) experience in the management of legal/judicial projects;
(b) knowledge and familiarity with the legal and judicial system in WBG;
(c) knowledge of the operations of MOJ and the judiciary; and
(d) experience working with international donors and agencies.
4.4   Duties and Responsibilities: The main responsibility of the Adviser to the
Project Manager is to advise the Project Manager, and assist him, when asked,
in the implementation and monitoring of all components of the Program,
including those of the Project. The Adviser to the Project Manager may be
asked to (a) comment on the bidding and other documents and short lists, and
the evaluation of bids relating to the implementation of the Project and the
Program; (b) assist the Project Manager with the preparation and
implementation of Project- and Program-related work plans; (c) monitor the
progress in implementation of the components of the Project and Program
and, where necessary, assist with the identification and resolution of problems
which may delay progress; (d) monitor the activities of consultants and
technical experts providing services under the Project or the Program; and (e)
participate in the supervision of Program and Project activities and be
available, at all times, to assist the Project Manager in the carrying out of the
latter's responsibilities.
5.0   TECHNICAL OFFICER
5.1   Reporting Arrangements:  Reports directly to the Project Manager.
5.2   Duration of Appointment: For the duration of the Project.
5.3   Required Background:    The position requires:
(a) up-to-date experience in the management of legal/judicial projects and/or
project activities;
(b) knowledge of the operations of MOJ and the judiciary;
(c) familiarity with computer-based project management systems;



- 64 -
(e) familiarity with the PA and international agencies' procurement procedures
and policies;
(f) ability to work effectively with individuals with diverse backgrounds and
interests; and
(g) good interpersonal and leadership skills.
5.4   Duties and Responsibilities:
(a). assist with the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the components
of the Project;
(b) monitor all Project-related activities of the PIU;
(c) assist with the preparation and implementation of Project-related work plans;
(d) assist with the preparation of all reports to IDA, the PA and other donor
agencies;
(e) monitor the progress of Project implementation and, where necessary, assist
with the identification and resolution of problems which may delay progress;
(f) assist in evaluating the impact of activities on the Project as a whole, and in
the conduct of Project evaluations; and
(g) monitor the activities of consultants and technical experts providing services
under the Project.
6.0   FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION OFFICER
6.1.  Reporting Arrangements: Reports directly to the Project Manager.
6.2.  Duration of Appointment: For the duration of the Project.
6.3.  Required Background:    The position requires:
(a) experience in accounting systems and the administration of projects;
(b) experience in the management of public funds (experience in
working/interfacing with international donor/funding agencies would be an
asset);
(c) familiarity with automated accounting and administrative systems;



- 65 -
(d) understanding of the operations of the public service, in particular the
Ministry of Finance; and
(e) proven ability to work as a member of an executive management team taking
critical decisions to ensure successful project implementation.
6.4   Duties and Responsibilities:
6.4.1  The incumbent's overall responsibility is to develop and maintain effective
accounting, financial and administrative systems as a significant part of ensuring
the integrity and success of the Project.
6.4.2  In particular the principal responsibilities will be to:
(a) develop and maintain a Project filing system in the PIU to ensure proper
record-keeping of all Project-related documents in accordance with IDA and
PA policies and guidelines;
(b) maintain an up-to-date registry of consultants hired and equipment purchased
under the Project;
(c) prepare the necessary documentation to be submitted to the auditors for the
annual review of records and accounts pertaining to the Project;
(d) ensure prompt payments for goods and services in accordance with contract
provisions;
(e) ensure that each withdrawal application (for disbursement purposes) with its
accompanying documentation is properly completed and in compliance with
IDA's procurement procedures so as to satisfy IDA that the PA is entitled to
withdraw the amount applied for, and that this amount will be used for the
purposes specified in the credit agreement;
(f) advise the Project Manager on reallocation of proceeds in the event that there
are insufficient funds within a specific category, all in accordance with IDA
guidelines;
(g) provide logistic support to the hired consultants and experts;
(h) meet all financial and administrative reporting requirements of the Project;
(i) contribute to the strategic and operational planning of the PIU; and
(j) prepare and submit activity sheets on a weekly basis to update the Project
management information system.



_SP 1  ( |1t995       I tN3   |  2000   |  2001
_IQ  Task Name                                                             StDartlon    St  Finibh   Predecesso[s 1114|1|213141234f1121341
I    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                       914d  07101197  12129100                    _        ,                     4
2        Project Start                                              Od  07A)1197  07/)1/97                          1
3        PCU OPERATIONS                                           414d  07102197  02101199 2                      *
4            PCU Office operational d  07A1O7  0702197                                                            7 2
6            CONTRACT CONSULTANTS                                  60d  07102197  09123191
6                 prepare TOR's for consultants                     3w  07J02197  07/22/97 4
I                 Estimate scope and cost of assignments           Sew  07PJ097  08K)6197 6SS
9                 Formal Gov Inv. to Negotiate to Consuiiants     _w  015_01 _ 7  CB/12197 7
9                Negollale w consultant                             t0d  0     _1397  0/26/97 8    _
10                Send Initialled contract to Bank                   2w  03/27197  09)D97 9
11                Bank Approval                                      2w  09/10197  09123197 10
12                Consultants start work                             Od  09/2317  09/23v97 I I9123
13            1 st YEAR BIDDING PROCESS                            414d  O7T0219V  02101199
14                IC8: IMPORTED EQUIPMENT                          290d  12123197  0V01t99
15                    Prepare Bidding Documents                     50d  12J23J97  03M9B 78
16   0                Bank Comments                                  2w   CX0B     03/1819S  15
17                    Prepare bids                                  30d  03/17s8  04/27O 16S
18                    Advertise bid                                 15d c  4i2aW   05/?8W  17
19                    InvIe bids                                    15d  05/19/    0618M  18
20                    Bidders prepare bid                           30d  06ADI9  07/20   19 1
21                    Open and evaluate bid      __                   d  07121i98  1(Y12198 20
Task              [  |                  Summary                                 Rolted Up Progtess
West Bank and Gaza
Legal Developnent Project             Progress                                Rolled Up Task    [7_J
Date 11ItI'24
Mileslone          *RoileUp MilestoneS



1_r7       19m       1m      1  2000   1  2001
ID   Task NowDuaton S                                                               Finish   PredecesmsoI 123411213141121314123                       12      4
22                    Review by Bank                                3W    1011  8  11Q23198 21
23                    Award contract                                 2w    11i24l   121D7198 22
24                    Deliver Goods                                  8w   12MM   02)1199 23
25                NCB: LOCAL GOODS                                 210d  07102197  04121198
26                    Prepare Bidding Documents                      5w  07102i97  0WAE597
27                    Bank Comments                                  2w  0806g7  08(19197 26
21                    Prepare bid                                   30)d  012097   _ _O17 27
29                    Invie bids                                     2w  11O1197  10C14197 28
30                    Bidder prepares bid                     I      3wv  1Yf15O97  11194197 29
31                    Open and evaluate bids                    __ d  1 1RX97  01113198 30
32                    Review by Bank                                 2w  01/1 418  O1 /279  31
33                    Award Contract                                 2w  01Q818  02_110_       32
34                    Deliver Local Goods                           lOw  02111198  04Q119B 33
UNIFICATION AND DEVELOPMENT                                           0300                           .
36            Estimate time for consulnts                           2ew  07)02197  0711617 2
37            Prepare draft                                         4ev  07116897  C8/13197 36
38            Enter inforrnation from QIU                           2ew  0B/1397  OB27197 37
39            Revie drat by relevant Mnistries                      4ew  08Q7197  C/24197 38
40            Incorporate comments at MinIstry Council              2ew   09/24197  10987 39
41            Organize two workshops                                 2w   I WB97  10Q21/97 40
42            Conduct woricshops                                     3w   10297  11-11-97 ! 41             _ _                                             _fi
West Bank and Gaza  Task            |  Sumny                      _             RolIed Up Progress
Legal Devebpmerd Project              Progress                                Rolled Up Task    [     1      1
Date:  1124
Milestone          *                    Rolled Up Milestone
2



_  1997  1993 1  1m99   1             1209  201-
ID   TauIiNarne                            ___________  Duration   Start    Finish   Predecasor  12                  12131411213141 122134112
43           Other activdies                                   1ICXLed  1112197  (BA)D  42                      [           I_-_____
44       C2: COURT ADMINISTRATION                                638d  07102197  07126199                    * *
45           Central Polky and Adrnistnrative Structure          453d  07102197  03120t99   _ _
46                Develop models of policy making and admin bodie   150ed  07t2197  11I2l97 2
47                Shortlist needed staff                         10ew  10127197  O15iSB 46FS-5ew
48               Introduce modem technology                        4N  10Q27I97  11/21t97 47SS
49                Adopt policies and admin procedures           180ed  0O1t98  06K30M  46
s0               Appoint staff for central admin office            _d  01t01t99  O 1t98 49SS                         01
61                Develop document procedures                    9)ed  0650w  '916d98                 _ 49
62                Develop training program                        6ew  08t1 7t9   098  51 FS-eew                         O
53                Conduct training program                       90ed  CV28   1227198 51
00
54                Operationalize models in West Bank and Gaza    90ed  12/28/19  03/2199 53
65           Planning and Facilities Plan and Standards          258d  07102197  0612719M
66                Establish planning position in central office  180ed  07t02197  12/297 2
57                Establish design standards and norms for the desi    1SDed  12r97  0&27t99 56
58           Hunan Resource Manageaent                      1 5id  07102197  06127199 _
69                Establish elements of human resource system   180ed  07A22197  12/29197 2
SO                Document procedures in place                     Od   9/28J9B  09C28198 51
61                Conduct training programs                      90ed  12Q28198  (3rZ8W  53
62                Operationalize models in West Bank and Gaza  9|ed   3299   0627s  61
63           knprovernenr of Records Management                  476d  09181197  0O6W199
Task             [     1       1      Sumnary                                Rodld Up Progress
West Bank and Gaza
Legd Delpmnt Project                 Progress                               Roled Up Task   |     1 1 1]
Date: I1 W24
Milestone                              Rodkd Up Mlestone  >
3



_D  Task                                                                 ..ne  __ __w                                    1"                                     11
ID   Task_N__                                                  Duraon    Stt    Fleh   Predecessor  1 23    1 |2|3|4  1 121314 12134  1 232431
64                Establish elements of record management system  180ed  0901)97  02r289  2
65                Adopt document system                           1 2Xbd  0312)98  0&# _  64                  1 ___                 12
6S                Upgrade records management equipmrent In trail cc    180ed  06r&)8   12/2719S 65
67                Conduct training                                 90ed  12t28198  03        66
St                Operationalize the system In West Bank and Gaza   _0ed _ Y2P9 _ _   /27/_  67
69            Judicial Statistics and Management Infomatlon        329d  07102197  10101S13
70                Review the current system                        9_ed  07102/97  CS309W7 2
71                D velop model annual report                     9Oed  C     97  12r29197 70
72                Conduct training programs                   ;    12ed  12/2997  04r82g8 71
73                Operationalize the system in West Bank and Gaza  10ed  04?2819B   1065M.96t72
74            Introduce Modem Information Technology               414d  07102197 .10 .
75                Conduct needs assessment for courts               6ew  0729?7  08C/13197 2-_
76                Identity appr. hardware anri software             6ei w ," 1  81Y?09/2-4967 i?7                 [
-_ .      - - - -  -- - - - - - _- _-_ _ _ _   _         _.              __  _   - [
77                Develop '-ORs for maintenance and training       9ed 10e/24197  12123197 76
78                Devwlop hardware specifications                  90ed  09824197  1223197 77SS
79                Aquire hardware                                    Od  02_ M _  _  02191J     24                                    2/01
so                Conduct training in basic software applications  1iBed  0707M98  01 X3199 79FS-30ew
e1            Introductlon of Standardized Foms                    407d  01101198  07126199
82                Analyse current procedures                      180ed  011D1198  06/V/9 '2
83                Devebop standardized forms and manual           180ed  06r3O/9B |1227M  82
S4                Develop training program to use forms       |    80ed t122Q8      06699183                                                 _
Task                   |                Summary                                 Roiled Up Progress
West Bank and Gaza                                                                               [
Legal Development Proed             Progress                                Rolled Up Task    E 
Date: 111R/24 
|  Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone
4



1U7     .JI    I          109    2000 i     2061
ID   Task Nane                                             _  Duration    Start    Finish   Predecessors 1T2 3111111 3    I4  l 1 1        21     3 41 1121314 1
35                Introduce new standardized forms in West Bank ar  4ew  06QI29   07t26B  84
a6       C3: JUDICIAL TRAINING                                     7S6d  07101/17  0710310          -_
37            Establishment of Judicial Education committee         3ew  07iU2197  07t23197 2
8B            Select consultants                                     Od  0123197  W123t97 87,12
39            Training Phase 97                                     66d  09124197  12124197 [3
90                Conduct seminar to Introduce judicial education   2ew  09/24d97  10W8197
91                Determine national judicial education standards   6ew   I1O97  11119t97 90
92                Determine curriculum needs analysis tools         6ew   101W97  11119197 9ISS
93                Organize study tours for trainers                 3ew   1000&97  1 --2- 7 90
94                Conduct study tours (1 judge, 1 magistrate, 1 pros(  3ew  10/29197  1It19t7 93
95                Develop draft of ethics codes                     6ew  092 11097 81E   i7 88
96                Develop self learning tools                      13ew    I24i97  12/24,97 88
97                Design and deliver of collegial programs         1 3ew  0E24197  12/24197 96SS
93            Deliver Quarterly Reports                            594d  12124197  04)03__    9
111           Deliver B3-annual Reports                             7BSd  07101197  07103100
119           Training Phase 93                                    3ded  01A)1t8  DW1t   97FS+6d
120           Training Phase 99                                    366ed  O1)10199  01AM1  119
121           Training Phase 00                                    1BOed  01/J0=   07)01Ar  120
122       C4: ALTERNATIVE DISPUJTE RESOLUTION                       863d  09110117  12129100 2
123           Design Pilot exercise                            |     10d  09110197  09123197  _
124                Establish criteria for judge/arbitratorhnediator selec  2w  09M1M7   M23197 12FS-2w
Task   [        |   Summary                   _            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Rolled Up Progsress
West Bank and Gaza
Legal Devebpment Project              Progress                                Roled UpTask
Date:-I KMN14 
M&stone            *                    Rolled Up Milestones
5



197      19 98   I  19       I  2000          001
ID    Tack Nae                                         __   Duration    Start    Finish   Predece          I2ors 1E 141 1 21  1231 411 12131411 1 2 13   1 4 2T-3T4+1
125           Development of ADR GuideksModels                      *W   09124197  01113198 
126                Deternine Guidetine Compatibility wdh codes       4w  09Q24/97  10121/97 124
127               Develop Guidelines                                 4N  t 022,97  11/18197 126
128               Develop Manuals for ADR                            8w   11/19/97  011 3P 127
129           InItal Imnplernentation of Pilots                     773d  01114198  12129100
130               Organize to pre-plot seminars                      15d  01114191  02/04198 128
131                    Select I InternUtional consultant              3#  011' 4    09B 02Rf31
132                    Select national specialist                   3ew  011 4198  02_)4_  131SS
133                    Prepare conference and materials              3ew  0111498  02O)4198 131 SS
134                    Organize travelfor participants              3ew  01/1498  02W498 131SS5
135               Establish structure for selection commvTtee        2w  0210U91  02117198 131
136               Appoint connnittee                                 Od  0217198  02117198 135                          12117
137               Initial tralning for selected Judges               45d  02118/98  04122198 136
133                    Prepare shortlist of consulting firms          1w  02/18M   02124198 130
139                    Contract innl firm for two months             Bew  0212598  04/22M  138
140                WBG Pilot                                        740d  03102198  121291001
141                    Establish office                             740d  03/02/98  1 2291)tl
142                    Hire staff                                     2w  03R_2d    03/13S   141SS
143                    Develop data material                       t2ew  0C13A2,   05125J9B 141 SS
144                    Conduct one year program study              36ed  05/25_      OS/2S_   143
145                    Conduct end of piot evaluation               31 ed  01 R33W  02RlK   144
West Bank ad                          Task               [     1|   Summary                   _                       Rolled Up Progress
Legal Development Project             Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Date 11n9R4
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone
6



__1-  _  _                             T 1397   1993       1939       2000   1  2001
ID   Task Name                                                Duration   Start    Finish  Predecessos   231    2|3|41  2341  121341   23411314
146       CB: LEGAL INFORMATION SYSTEM                            913d  07102197  12129100 2
147           Establish Convnlssion                                 2d  07102197  07103197      _
148               Preare first year working plan                     Id  07D2197  07__2_7
149               Prepare time table for first year workshop         Id  0703/97  07AW7  14B
150           Legal hnfornatlon system                            913d  07102197  12129100 _     _     _
161               Appointrnent of Judicial Education Committee       Od  0702197  07l21097                   11  7102
152               Determine List of text                            7w  07)21097  0X/1997 151
153               Purchase Text for Courts and Librarnes            9w  O(WDJ97  1021197 152
15s4               Tann                                             361id  10- 297@1119916
155                   Train first Law Librarian                   20ew  10/22097  C3f111 1 8
156                   Tran second Law Librarian        3=ed  03f1106 I                       _ 03_ 11 0  1_
1S7               Start Legal Subscription Ser vice               X0ed  0713M   1Z2910  153FS+133sd                          =
158   --          Cornpute1lzatlon of Legda System                  29d  0U210529  0311489
159                   Install Computer -Hardw-areand -ofware       40ed   M 02     C3114199 24
ISO                   Computer Link worig                            Od  _    _   C33/1499 159                                  *  03114
1t1               Legal Database                                   i13d  07102197  1212         __00
162                    Purchase CornAer Eqiet                        4w  07M97    7/2997
163                   Create Legal Data Dictionary                  8w  07097   WN3197 162
164                   Update Legal Information                   9gOed  07139B   12I00  163
165                   Introduce Service Dissemination of aws on 0    91Oed  07M3)B   12J290  163
West Bank and Gaza
Lepl Development Project              Progress                               RoNed UpTask
Date: 11k nM24
7



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                   %      % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sunwnary                            (US$ 1100)                     (US$ 00w)            Forign   lse
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    F           Total    i        Costs
1. Invedrnent Costs
A. Technical Assistance (Specialist Services)
Short-term international Consultants                            -    1,253.8    1,253.8       -    1,23.8    1,253.8      100      25
Local Consultants                                         1,141.3              1,141.3   1,141.3               1,141.3-            22
Subtotal Technical Assistance (Specialist Servkes)          1,141.3   1,2538    2,35.0    1,141.3   1,253.8   2,395.0        52      47
B. Legal and Judkical Training Activitles
Design, Preparation and Delivery                            249 0         -     2490      249.0          -     2490         -       5
Participation, Seminar and Workshop                         9S9.8         -     9598       959.8         -     9S9.8        -      19
Study Tours Abroad                                              -     127.0     1270          -      127.0     127.0      100       2
Publication. Dissemination and Supervision (trip)           284.0         .     284.0      284.0         -     2840         -       6
Subtotal Legal and Judicial Training Activities             1,492.8     127.0   1,619.8   1,492.8      127.0   1,619.8        8      32
C Studies and Consulting Firm                                  72.5         -      72.5       72.5         -      72.5         -       1
D. lnfonnatks Hardware, Software and Training
Basic Hardware, Software and Training                        33.4     300.2     333.5       33.4     3002      333.5       90        7
Other Equipment and Books                                    48.6     437.0     485.5       48.6     437.0     485.5       90       9
Subtotal Intormatics Hardware, Software and Training           81.9     737.1     819.0       81.9     737.1     819.0       90       16
Total lnvetment Costs                                         2,788.4   2,117.9   4,906.3   2,788.4   2,117.9   4,906.3        43       96
II. Recurrent Costs
Operating Costs                                               1560          -      1560      1560          -      1560         -       3
Office Rent                                                    54.6                54.6       54.6         -      54.6         -       1
Total Recurrent Costs                                           210.6                210.6     210.6         -      210.6        -       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           2,999.0   2,117.9   5,116.9   2,990.0    2,117.9   5,116.9       41      100
Physical Contingencies                                        133.0      58.9      192.0     133.0      58.9      192.0      31        4
Price Contingencies                                           2538       62.1      316.0     253.8      621       316.0      20        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            3,385.9   2,238.9   5,624.8   3,385.9   2,238.9   5,624.8        40     110
c.Wdata%WBiGAZAicostab\SU_EA5.xis



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 100 Unifica6oq and Deveopment
Detailed Cosb
(US$ )00)                                                                        Quanttles                      Unk                    Bass Cost                         Totals InckidI  Cor_b=les
Unit       1997      1998      1999      2000      Total    Cost   1997    199       199     2000     Total    11,7    19        19      2100     Total
1. tnvsbtent Cots
lntwerabonalConsultant-Shorl-lerm              Staffmonth        6         12        12        6         36      20   120.0   240.0   2400    1200        720.0   1271    259.1   265.3   1362        787.7
Nabonal Conferwnce a                            Amount                                                                     -    50.0 ss   o      50.0     io.o        -    55.6    58.2    61         175.4
Regional Workshops /b                           Amount                                                                     -    400    40.0    400        120.0       -    44.4    46.6    49.3       140.3
ComputersandPrinters                             Unit            5          -          -        -         5      25     125                -        -      12.5    12.6        -                       126
Phoocopier machine                               Unit            1          -          -        -         1       5      5 0           -            -       5 0     50         -       -        -       5.0
Fax madrine                                      Unit                                                     t       2      2.0           -       -            2.0     2.0                -                20
Total Investmernt Costs                                                                                                  139.5   3300   3300   210.0   1.0095    1468    359.1   3701    2471    1,1231
R. Recurrent Cosbt
Ollice Space for MOJ in the West Bank           Amount                                                                   4 2     64      8 4      4.2      25.2      4 3     8.9     9 3      4 9      27.4
Telephone. cellphone. and other utilibes        Amount                                                                   6,0    12.0    120      8e0       36o0    6.1    12.7    13.3        7.0      39.2
Total Recuffent Costs                                                                                                     10 2    20.4    20.4    10e2       61.2    10.4    21.8    22.6    120         66.6
Total                                                                                                                    1497    350.4   350.4   2202    1,070,7   1571    3807    3928   2591    1,1897
\a S100 x (60hotel. 20L 20D). 3 days, matenals SSK, misc, honorarium, etc
tb Four regional workshops per year at S10.000 each
c azalcogazaet5f_ xis



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabb 2/0. Central Poky and Admninistrbw SbucfM
ODdtild Cots
1US$ 000)                                                                                                 Quanlllti                      Unit                    Bass Cost                         Tolad, :Pkdln  ConM=onle
UnH         1997       10         11ff      2000     Total     cost    1r7   1I         1It"      2000    Tota    1907   1_          1        2000    Tota
1. invstnsnt Cosbt
k Brdg Fiknaning o Administrativ OQttco In Ga
Admwesbtiti dwobNrht                                               Stsffmonol          12         24         12                 4a        2     240      48.0    240         -    95.0    25.6    53.3    270            *   10S9
MISMStsfhicsOtf4,er Slbllrnon9,                                                        12         24         12        -        48       15     ISO      38.0    to0         -     720      19.2    40.0    21.0         -    80.2
Adrminstaw support                                                 Stefnonil            0          6          o        .        I8        1      60       0.0      0.0       -    18.0       0 4      6.7      7.0       -    20.1
Subtotal IN    Flneing of Adninstrsthv OM" In Ganze                                                                                              4     0  900.0      0        -   180.0    51.3   100 0        55.9            207.2
8 Insrnaionl Consultant                                              SuIMrTon6r           4          -          -                  4       20      0 0                 -              0.0    54 7                  -              4.7
C Local ConsultAr                                                    Stimonth             6         12                   -        18        2     120      24.0        -       -    3.0    t2.6    20.7            -       -    30.5
D Tnrn Mal*nia and Oocurnenabon                                       Amount                                                                       5.0      50                 -     100       5.3      58                       10.9
E Equionun--ComputerandPnnt.r                                           Unit      2            1           -                               25     Is                   -       -     15       151         -        -             15.1
F. Oldle baining vsts0c Akrount                                                                                                                   25.0        -                 -    25.0    20.5                                20.5
Total                                                                                                                                               165.0   119.0    48.0         -   352.0   195.6   132.2    55.9                383.9
\e Pr 4/12197 sMall- to tour pars total
lb P.r 4112/97 *111r- ID hour parsons total
lc On (or 2) trip abroad hr group of judges
It.A
c:%stV=%co'su'ooad_tS dt



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 230 Human Reso&xce Management
Detailed Costs
(USS'000)                                                                 Quantlties                    Unit                  Oas Cost                        Total knoudng Contingencis
Unit      1997      1998      1999    2000      Total    Cost    1"97    19t   19         2000    Total   1917    199    1t9    2000    Total
1. Invesim nt Costs
LocalConsuitant                          Staffmonth        6        12        6                 24       1      60     12.0     6.0       -    24.0      64     133      70        -    267
International Consulant                  Staftmonth        1          -        -       -         1      20    200         -       -       -    20.0    21 2                -       -    21.2
Traineng Materials and Documentation      Amount                                                                  -    20 0       -       -    20.0        -    22,2                -    222
Traineg Program Costs                     Amount                                                                  -    20.0       -       -    20.0        -    22.2       -        -    222
Total                                                                                                            26.0    52.0      6.0            84.0    27.6    57.8      7.0            92.4
0%
c dststgaza'ostadet5.... xii



WEST RANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 240 lmpov Record Management System
Dtald cost.
(USS '000)                                                                 Quuntlfio                      Unit                  Be Cost                          Tetd. hbuk       bCig
Unit       1597      199e      i       2000      Toti     Cotd   197        9s      1      2Coo                 2000 Toel 1117    1e
i. lnvstnwi Chost
Intaadtnat Consultant                     Stafmonrh         I          -                 -         1      20    20.0        -        -       -    20.0    21.2                 -       -    21.2
Loca Coasultmt                            Staffmnonth       6         12        6                 24       2    12.0    24.0    12.0               48.0    12.8    28.7    14.0        -    53.5
Record Stor  EqIpment /a                   Amnout- -   200.0                                                                         -                            206.2        -           206.2
Docm,ntican and Trainng Matenals           Amoad                                                                    -    30.0                -    300         -    33.3        -       -    33.3
Trag Prn.s                                 Amount                                                                           -    30.0             30.0        -       -    349         -    34.9
Total                                                                                                              32.0   254.0    42.0        -   3280      34.0   266.2    48.9        -   349.2
%a fntennatiorl shoppin procedue to be fotowed
c %dagta%geM%o 5_8 xis



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 245 Judicial Statistics and Managament Info
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)                                                               Quantities                   Unit                   Be  Cost                       Totbls hkdu      Col_nged-
Unn       1117    1996       1999    200       Total    Cost   1907 11           1fl9  2000    Totil   11197    low      It"    2000    Total
1. Inveshnent Costs
intenational Consuitant                  Staffmonth        I         -        -                 1      20    20.0                -       -    20.0    21.2                -             21.2
Local Consultart                         Staffrnonth       3        6         3       -        12       2      6.0    12.0     6.0       -    24.0      6.4    13.3     7.0       -    28.7
Documentation and Trainwg Matemials       Arnourt                                                             20.0       -                    20.0    21.4        -                     21.4
Training Programs                         Amount                                                              20.0       -       -             20.0    21.4               -       -    21.4
Total                                                                                                           66.0    12.0     6.0        -    84.0    703     13.3      7.0       -    90.6
00
c wdatatgan%twsmldets_8 xis



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 250 intoduca Basic Modem Technology
DetaKed Coset
(USS 000)                                                                       Ouantiles                      Unit                 Sas Cost                         Total Ihnckaft  ContliVendaa
Unit        1n7       It        199    2000       Totl     Cost   In7    196    It"    2000    Total   1917    1S    1i"             2100    TOtl
1. Investment Cost
A. Inremental Equlpment Neefd
CmputersmadPrinters/a                         Unid            110                   -       -        110     2.5   2750        -       -       -   2750   2776                              277.6
Typewnters                                     Unit            25                   -       -        25      0.7    17 5       -       -       -    17 5    177         -       -       -    177
Tape Recorders                                Unit             20                                    20      02      4.0       -       -       -      40      4.0               -             40
Photocopies lb                                Unmt             20                           -        20       5   100.0        -       -       -   100.0   1009                         -   100.9
Subtotal Incmental EquIpment Needs                                                                                   396 5               -           396.5   4002         -       -           4002
B LocalConsurtart                             Statfmonth          6        12        6                 24       2    120    240    120                 480     128    26.7    140               53.5
C Interational Consultant                     Staffnoftr          I          -        -       -          1     20    20 0                              20 0    212        -       -             212
D Doaxnentabon and Training Materials          Amount                                                                 300        -       -       -    300    321          -       -             321
E Training Programn                            Amount                                                                 40.0       -           -         40.0    42 7               -       -    42.7
Total                                                                                                                  498 5    240    12.0             534 5   509.0    26;7 140                549 7
\a ICB procurement method to be followed
\b Internabonal shopping procedum to be followed
c \data\gaza\so&t5_8 As



WEST RANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 260 Inblduce Stanxdardized Forms
Detailed Costs
(USS '00D)                                                               Duanhtes                      Unft                   Bass Coat                       Totda iekludng Condngutde
Unit      1997    199tt    199       2000     Total    Cost   1997    1996    1t         200t    Total   17       1996    199      2000    Total
1. lnvOtnwnSt Costs
Local Consuant                            Stafmnrt          -       6         6        -        12       2        -    12.0    12.0        -    24.0        -    13.3    14.0             27.3
intemational Consulant                    Staffmon7h        -        3        -                  3      20        -    600        -        -    60.0        -    64.8       -        -    84.8
Trainig Materials and Docmentation         Amount                                                                 -    30.0        -       -    30.0        -    333        -        -    33.3
TraininV Programs                          Arnourt                                                                        -    30.0        -    30.0    _           -    34.9             34.9
Total                                                                                                                    102.0    420        -   144.0        -   111.4    48.9             160.4
00
0
0datazMcsf ett xAs



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVIELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabl 310. AMltnive Diu  Resolution - Pilot Proam
Dealled Cast
(US$  O) mman                                                                                                                        Unit                   bee Cost                           ToUl b thei_o Conolg_:
UnK        17         19        1m        2000      Totl    Cost    1"7         190     1m       20       TOW      1917    1966    199       2100    ToWl
L. krvsbsnt Costs
k SpecleUst Swrubs
Inlenona Conrutwt - Senior                                    Salmonrh            5          ,                             5       15     75.0        ,                      75.0    794                                 7.4
LocalConwlt - tSerior                                          StaRmnOr           2          -          -                  2        3       .0            -            -               64         -                -      6.4
PubNabion                                                       Anuiunt                                                                    2.0                 -              2.0      2.1                 -       .      2.1
Subl Specefls Services                                                                                                                      63.0        -      -         -    63.0    86.0          .                      8-.0
B. Prolt Son2r - Two
IntsrnfonradConaulhut-hroe  weeks                              Staffmonth      0.75          -          -        -       075       15      11.3       -        *              113     11.9        -        -       .     11.9
Loal CovAit - Ihneeks                                          Sll*nonwtr      0 75          -          -        -       075        3      2.3                 ,       ,      2 3      2.4        .                       2.4
Wncosixary Travel                                               Arnourt                                                                    1.0        .        -        .      1.0     1.1        -        -       -       1.1
Conrance  atetls                                                Anunt                                                                      2.0                 -       -      2.0      2.1        .        -              2.1
Subttl P-ot Sernare - Two                                                                                                                    16.5       .        .        .     18.5    17.5        -                       17.5
C. Trenk    of Judg_ , MedItos and Arbibaton
Fogni Fhn Conrinot                                              Anwnt                                                                        -    500          -       -    50.0         -    55.6         -       -     55.
Fadety Usag                                                     Anmount                                                                             5.0                 -     5.0        -      5.         -              5.6
Subtotal Trainbg of Judges, lMeitor and Arbt                                                                                                   -    550          -        -    55.0        -    61.1         -       -    61.1
D. ADR Pllot Cents - Two to
Locaf Adinild km - Two                                         Stalitnon12 12                           2        -        24        2        -     24       24.0 24.0                    -    207       27.         -    54.6
LocdAsuhsihataMSeeterts - Two                                  Stffonih           -         12         12        -        24        1        -     12.0    12.0         -    24.0        -     13.3    14.0              27.3
Mediatons- 12 pesons lb                                         AmounL                                                                       -    150.0   150                30.0              in.?   1747               341.4
Conwuer & Pnar                                                   Un               -          2          -        -         2        3        -      6.0 o               -      6.0              0 2                 -      6.2
Copir                                                            Unit             -          2          -        -          2       5        -     10.0        -        -     10.0       -     10.3        -        .     10.3
Puleadon                                                        Amunt                                                                               5.0      5.0        -     10.0              5.6      5.8        -     11.4
Subtotl ADR Plo Cener - Two                                                                                                                    -   207.0   191.0          -   396.0        -   226.7   222.4          -   4512
TotlI uwsbnent Cost                                                                                                                           99e5    262.0   191.0        -   552.5   105.5   2S9.9   222.4           -   617.8
N. FscWa*n Cosb
A. hnrrntat Operting costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                        00
Telonm endrom    utiliy                                         Amount                                                                              2.      12.0      6.0    300              12.7    13.3       7.0    33.0                    -
TOWa RecuKrren Co"a"                                                                                                                                   12.0    12.0       6.0    30.0        -      12.7    13.3      7.0    33.0
Total                                                                                                                                          665    2740    203.0        60    582.5    1055    302.6    2357       70    e508
la Two plots: I It Gaza. 1 it RensOi
t Forimia  $100 an hour u 5ass/day 0x300 days max
clet5      _    8  xbfd~0r



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 320 Evalation of ADR Pilot
Detailed Costa
(US$000)                                                                Quantities                     Unit                  un cost                           Totals lnludung ContIng
Unit      1"7    1998    1t"        2000      Total    Coat   1i17    1n8    1t"       2W00    Total    1n,7    16    1t"         2000    Total
.t Inveatmtnt Costa
KA Monitoting and Evaluaton Study
Local Firn                                Amount                                                                         -     5.0    10.0    150              -          58     12.3    181
knltkonal Consunant                     Staffmonth         -         -    075      0.75       1 5      20       -   _         15.0    15.0    300         -        -    166      17.0    33.6
Totl                                                                                                                               20 0    25.0     45f0                     224      23.4    51.8
t,t
c:%dat8%aza%c0$fWW58 xis



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 330. ADR Studies
Dtaled Costs
(USS 000)                                                     Quantites                      Unit                   ea  Cost                          Totab hickdinl Contingncle
Unit      1997    1998      13"3      2000     Totl    Cost    1337    1338    13t         2000    Tobtl    1337    13       It       2000    Total
1. Investment Costs
IntematlonlConsultant          Staffmionth       -        -     075       0.75       1.5      15       -              11.3    11.3    22.5                 -    12.4    12.8    25.2
Local Consultants -two         Staffmonth        -        -        2         2        4        2       -               4.0     4.0      8.0       -               4.7     4.9      g.e
Pubktion                        Amount                                                                  -                -     2.0      2.0                -        -     2.5      2.5
Wa&9hop                         Amount                                                                  -       -              5.0      5.0       -                       6.2      6.2
Total                                                                                                              -    15.3    22.3    37.5         -       -    17.1    26.3    43.4
00
c.sWhAigazto JWet5_..ds



WWEST PAWK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T.". 400 Lood Tr
D.5.d Cods
(L55 V0000)                                                                                                                                               unit                  .8  Cod                             To_ b Md  dbo C-d
LU.t          197         1n8         1m          2000       T  i       C-,d    10W7    190       190      2000    Ttlf    1 t7    19         1n9_  2100        Td f
1.    h      Ce
A. h.  8n
Od     R..   WdRE.-W (4 dy.p  yr -ReRtid)l/.                          Perpenonday             40          00          80          40        240    0234       94      1.7    18.7        9.4    58.2     W.0    20.0    21.8    11.5          84.1
Co,*.*, T.. (0 ds  p.. , - Reide.8) F.                                P.. P-</nody           150         300         300         150        900    0234      35.1    702       702     35.1   210.1    37.5    78.0    61.7    43.2          2405
C...M    Tk  ng(4 dy pr y- N-.m ,idenlii) k                           P. penon-4ry           100         200         200         100        O00      0.15    15.0    30.0    30.0    15.0    90.0    16.0    33.3    34.8    16.5            102.0
8            fhtw ASiS d Mgibos                                                                                                                                09       1IW.    118.9    St.5    356.8    83.5    132.1   138.5    73.3        407.4
2. Jksdd Sqpd  SUIT
O,rbn -o(4 d.y.peyr -N Inrndt/d                                       P. p        n-d.y       40          so          00          40        240       0.1     40      800       8.0     4.0    240        43       8.       9.3     4.9       27.4
C enr.kT      d   y(3    pe p. yr - N-w..d. )Ie                       P0,p.ns by             150         300         300         150         900     .0       7.5    15.0      1S.0      7.5    45.0      8.0    16.7    17.5        92       51.4
Sd..O    AI J.dld  Sop-tl 0tdf                                                                                                                                 11.5    23.0    23 0       11.5    69.0    12.3    25.9    26.0    14.2          78.8
3. P-0o
Orndi.. (4 dy.p. yr - Nr4--ido .1)                                    P..prm 4y               20          40          40          20         120      0.2     40       0.0      60       4.0    24.0      4.3      8.8      83      49        274
Cr*sr       eiT.*OMo(0d.yr.  vyr - N-Jide.0i-) g                      P. .P-non-y            50         300         300         I0S        900       01      I5.0    30.0    30.0    15.0    t0.0    16.0    33.3    34.9    10.5           102.0
SubPAn P-_..                                                                                                                                                   190      38.0    38.0    19.0   114.0    203         422      44.3    23.4      1302
5u8..o   h tb.    n                                                                                                                                              9000    1783    17i.9    90.0   539.8    96.f   190.    20905    110.8          6164
8 Etl..  Tr hh,g                                                             A,vut                                                                                170     34.0    34.0    17.0   102.0    7.1    35.0    35.8    18.4            100.3
C. Tr.Mb.g ftb, Cod. d E6.. Bod B-ookI., M-
OSdwo.on .0t 4h                                                            A,m.,4                                                                               10.0    205      200      10.0      00      10.7    22.2    23.3    12.3        0805
O    S   a00   n-b (d--b.6n5.tir
p.kl k... ..)                                                            A1-.,                                                                                *00     160      16.0      6.0    46.0      6.1    10.6    17.7        8.4      502
Subr.W T     IO    Mb, C.ode.d El6i-,  dh 8o00k. Mt-h                                                                                                             16.0    38.0    36.0    100    10860        6.8    39.2    41.0    21.7        110.7
0. E.M  Cono.oy
.0..o.8obCor.A.0    (Fee.. pIOep.p-oo )                                     doy                30          30          25          Is         00        1    300      300      250      150    1000       303     30.8    203       16.2      036
ConoAd ,oMo.4.,kv                                                           dy                   -         25          25          25          75        1        -    25.0    25.0    25.0    75.0          -    27.0    27.6    28.4          83.0
8.bb8.t El*nU C-no.8 y                                                                                                                                            30.0    550      500      400    1750       303     578      040      44.6      198.7
lr5.                                                                                                                                                               1530    3049    2998    050    t228    80.3   331.6   340.3   9.S    1028.0
- F.. 20 pdipft n .d, soon
lb Fo. 50 poddko5b .d.h .0-
k. F.o 50 penkbonb ..h .o.
kd F.r 20 p.dpbt. .d oe..i0
le Fo. 00 popob   d.. h 
U FF. 10 p rdpnb echd. .Om
\FF. 50 podpooh .d. nb-dr-
1.n h  oded 0.49. t. ye-n
o2d5.l.b0M8.S



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENiT PROJECT
Table 510. Legal Lbweries
Detailed Cost
(US$ '000)                                                              QuantlUes                     Unit                  Sam Cost                          Todtshsiking Cont2 ncirE
Unit     1997      1998    1999    2000      TOWa      Cost   1117    1it    119          200    Tobri   1n7    1is       1t"     200    Totl
1. Inveebhn.t Costs
40 Voiann Set for Judgs a                   Unit          80        -                          o0     0 5    40.0        -       -        -    40.0    40 4        -        -       -    40.4
Lw Books for 2 Lbries /b                   Amount                                                            100.0               -        -   1W.0   1009          -        -       -   100.9
Subsorition to CD-ROM materials            Amount                                                                -     5.0     5.0      5 0    15.0        -     5.6      5.8     6.2    17.5
TrainiV of 2 Lbrwies on PCICD-ROM          Amount                                                          _           2.0       -      2.0     4.0        -     2.2              2.5      4.7
Totai                                                                                                          1400      7.0      5.0     7.0   159.0   1413        7.8     5.8      8.6   163.5
%a Regional, inteational and statues kind of books Follow irternational shoppirn procedure
\b Follow iterational sho   procedawe
00
c weltaNgWAzaose4tS_f xls



l    i i CX   
X 1t
i 
1ii
.1.
.1. 1'
1. .'
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I _8



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 530 Legal Information
Detailed Costs
(lJSS 000)                                                               Quantities                    Unit                    Base Cost                          Totals Including ContingencIes
Unit    1997      1998      1999    2000     Total    Cost    1997    1998    199          2000    Total    1997     1998    1999    2000    Total
I. Investment Costs
Computer Link to Lfbrary of Congress        Amount                                                                       100      100     100      300               11I      116      123      351
Computer and Printer la                      Unil          -         2        -        -         2       3         -     6 0        -        -      6.0        -      6.2        -        -      6 2
Total                                                                                                                      160      10.0     100      360               173      116     123      413
\a With more capacity tor internet search, etc
00
c \dala\gaza\cost\det5.8 -Is



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 540 Legal Data and Textbase
Detailed Costs
(USS 000)                                                                   Quantities                     Unit                    Bas Cost                            Totas Inkdudng Contlngencis
Unit    1997       1998     199      2000      Total    Cost    1397       138      1f9l    2900    Totai   1117    19"3         13m      2000    Totb
I. Investment Costs
Computer and Printer                           Unit           -         2                           2       2          -      5 0        -          -    50         -      5.2             -          5.2
Dtssemination of Laws on diskettes/a          Amount                                                                  -      5.0         .0       -     10.0        -      5.6      5.8              11.4
Total                                                                                                                    -     100       5.0        -     tS0          -     10.7      5.8              16 5
\a 2000 dskeetes at $5 each
00
0c
c /daataQazalcostldetSfi xIs



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TiW  900 Ppd UM  agenwt aId mr4mmsWi  Uni
Det~N Codat
(USS V0)                                                                          Quu9Wew                          U*me Col                                               Td    : w  Camlt _ eeds
Una        1917       191       It"       200s       TOW      Cost   11"?    1s"    1m          am3        tow 90    1dIV"7  tJ1 1         l11 19l o
L InetteiComaf
A. P     UnI Staff
PjedMe agri                                  SultMO            52         12        12         12       4a       2.5    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0   120.0    32.1    33.3    34.9    37.0   137.3
Prem ertiwrdAcaoundrSOflwob                  StM!norlh          6         12        12         12        42       2    12.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    84.0    12.8    26.7    27.9    20.6    97.0
ExatAm"Astant                                SWitnont           a         12        12         12        42      1.5     0.0    18.0    IS0    18.0    83.0        9.6    20.0    21.0    222       72.8
SecrotryRark - Two                           Stilmonl          24         24        24         24        go        1    24.0    24.0    240    24.0    96.0    25.6    28.7    27.9    296    109.5
Sa.taqal progeot Uni St                                                                                                   75.0    96.0 .0            60    330    6801    10867  1t118    1t13   416.9
U hnnas Equlpereit Neea k
COnahW                                          UI               4         -          -         -         4      25     100         -       -             10.0    10.1                -             10.1
Prwvtn  IkrUt                                                    4                                        4        1     4.0        -       -       -      40      4.0                               4 0
Copier                                          Unit             1               -              -         1        5     5 0        -       -              5.0     5.0        -       -       -      5.0
Fax mfad*                                       Urt1                       .n- I                          1       2      2O.                -              2 0     2.0       -   _            -      2.0
Subatdt  _xcvamnta Equipmett Hot                                                                                          21.0                -       -    210      212                 -       -    21.2
C. Sit V   t adt AWNg
Domesic Vists to Proed Aeas A                 Aanouwt                                                                    6.0    12.0    120       60    36.0       6.4    13.3    14.0      7.4    41.                00
AmldAudlt                                      Auait             -         1          I         1         3      2 5       -      2.5     2.5     2.5      7.5       -      2.8     2.9     3.1      8.8              '
Subtota Site VIts and Audteog                                                                                              60      14.5    14.5     8.5  U43S   a64    1             16.9      T      499
Total hvvsbwent Coals                                                                                                      102.0   110.5  I 10.   104.5   427.5   107 7   122.8   128.7   126.8  4860
I. ReatNVnt Coob
A. Operat   Coda
Ofce Rent for PU (six rooms)lg                 hrAnwut                                                                   4.2      8.4     8.4     t.4    29.4      4.3      6.9     9.3     9.9    32.3
OmcAtte Phone otfiw
mt"t. uites                                  Anfouit                                                                   12.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    64.0    12.2    25.4    25.6    28.2    024
Supoies                                       Amoun                                                                      1.0      2.0     2.0      1.0     6.0     1.0     2.1      22       1.2     6.5
Totl Retunant Coda                                                                                                          17.2    34.4    34.4    33.4   119.4      17 .5 34    36.2    39.2   131.3
Tota                                                                                                                        1192    144.9   144.9   13709 69  1t25.2   159.2   16.6   1660   619.2
\a Reduced to hree persons in the PIU - 4117197
tb Responsible for the whole pn*aecf s (both implmentfation agenaes) financial, procurement and ad"ng  tuctions
k: Minor Isolated equipnt to fllow blal soppng procedure.
i Fror i lwr printer and 3 ir(ets
te E g. OkKlata 2200 fron reputable local dealer with good taintenance - very important
V In p&ctr. swme  velling Wetween the Gaza end West Bank Olft"
Ng For 4 office aned two extra rooms WE rentd about S5 per squre meter per month
Or, 6 rooms x 3x5 size xSS approximately [$500 local, maybe $700 htt org per month
c \4ataXqazatcosMet5 8 xis



WEST BANK AND GAZA
LEGAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                       %      % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary                               (USS 0)                       (USS '000)            Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total     Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance (Specialist Services)
Short-term International Consultants                             -    1,253.8    1,253.8         -    1,253.8    1,253.8      100      25
Local Consultants                                           1,141.3         -    1,141.3    1,141.3         -    1,141.3        -      22
Subtotal Technical Assistance (Specialist Services)           1,141.3    1,253.8    2,395.0    1,141.3    1,253.8    2,395.0     52      47
B. Legal and Judicial Training Activities
Design, Preparation and Delivery                              249.0         -      249.0     249.0          -     249.0         -       5
Participation, Seminar and Workshop                           959.8         -      959.8     959.8          -     959.8         -      19
Study Tours Abroad                                               -      127.0      127.0         -      127.0     127.0       100       2
Publication, Dissemination and Supervision (trip)             284.0         -      284.0     284.0          -     284.0         -       6
Subtotal Legal and Judicial Training Activities               1,492.8     127.0    1,619.8    1,492.8     127.0    1,619.8        8      32
C. Studies and Consulting Firm                                   72.5         -       72.5      72.5          -       72.5        -       1
D. lnforrnatics Hardware, Software and Training
Basic Hardware, Software and Training                          33.4     300.2      333.5      33.4      300.2     333.5       90        7
Other Equipment and Books                                      48.6     437.0      485.5      48.6      437.0     485.5        90       9
Subtotal Informatics Hardware, Software and Training             81.9     737.1      819.0      81.9      737.1     819.0        90      16
Total Investment Costs                                          2,788.4    2,117.9    4,906.3    2,788.4    2,117.9    4,906.3     43      96              0
I. Recurrent Costs
Operating Costs                                                 156,0         -      156.0     156.0          -      156.0        -       3
Office Rent                                                      54.6         -       54.6      54.6          -       54.6        -       1
Total Recurrent Costs                                             210.6         -      210.6     210.6          -     210.6         -       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            2,999.0    2,117.9    5,116.9    2,999.0    2,117.9    5,116.9     41      100
Physical Contingencies                                          133.0      58.9      192.0     133.0       58.9      192.0      31        4
Price Contingencies                                             253.8      62.1      316.0     253.8       62.1     316.0        20       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              3,385.9    2,238,9    5,624.8    3,385.9    2,238.9    5,624.8    40      110l



and
Wa' bX X                                                                   T f  C 2 > f  } adlr. +    AIRPORTS /AIRFIELDS
MAJOR HIGHWAYS
(TWO OR MORE LANES,
HARD SURFACED ROADS
-  J     1;( o.  ^ RAILROADS
/   - -  -'       |tAkarnn  ApM,cTb,                                            1               BUILT-UP AREAS
/ffiffi   t8   w  k  t   t  Tammun    4^  1, }   \UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
-0/  ~~ 3   /,1 g  _ -  \ .   Nablus t    - -.    {   '        $l7     .    ~a           ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
-  ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
77& f   A Nt;F -f _~-<M-42                . 't                *    - 1 '-                       -    NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
I ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
-     EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1 967,
THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
aYi@O5W\>   8  \  s 11 t  )   \  0   j   ;1    i'   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
XJ-ttSot t   ~  -    4L~t                 W    E X-T                         
'~ ~ ~~~~~~~A~ / j   0   -            iP0,_I4t t                                       {
A'4  t    X   <,,(}     '                              M'D''FP'ANFAN
Birch                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JORDAN
WEST
-ISPAEL 
A ~~~~                                                                  DAD ~  JMEDITERRANEAN
"ST       /        ~~~Hebr n                                                                                              C'
D-, El B.(.
A _'t~ v;  '                                                                        I /  SRAun) EL
,  Yu/,   ,  \      . /
.~~~ ~~~~~~~ ,',do~ 9990 f          99990 '91        90                                              Ao I  ID(RANA 









IMAGING
Report No - T       7133   GZ
Type      TAN



