Page  1
TF023757
TF023757
SAUDI GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated September 2, 2000, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of 
a grant (the “Grant”) provided by the SAUDI FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT (the 
“Donor”), and the PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority) (the “Recipient”).
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated June 24, 1997, between the 
Administrator and the Recipient (the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or 
“TFCA”), the Administrator has agreed to provide the Recipient with a 
credit (the “Credit”) in an amount equivalent to five million five 
hundred thousand United States dollars (US$5,500,000) to assist in 
financing the carrying out in the West Bank and Gaza (“WBG”) of the Legal 
Development Project described in Schedule 2 to the TFCA (the “Project”);
(B)
the Donor, has agreed, under a letter of agreement (“MOA”) 
with the Administrator, dated June 7, 2000, to provide the Grant in an 
amount equivalent to twenty million United States dollars 
(US$20,000,000), of which twelve million United States dollars 
(US$12,000,000) is allocated to assist in financing the Project;
(C)
the Donor and the Administrator have agreed, under the MOA, 
to assign the responsibility for administration of utilization of the 
proceeds of the Grant for purposes of the Project to the Administrator; 
and
(D)
the Administrator undertook under the MOA to implement the 
procedures and conclude the agreements required to implement the MOA and 
to achieve the objectives of the Grant.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions, as amended, referred to and 
modified in Section 1.01 of the TFCA (the “General Conditions”) shall 
apply mutatis mutandis to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the TFCA, the General 
Conditions referred to in the preceding Section and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and (a) the 
term “Grant Account” means the account maintained by the Administrator, 
in which the amount of the Grant is deposited, and (b) the term “Grant 
Special Account” means the account to be opened by the Recipient pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, 
Page  2
on the terms and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in 
an amount equivalent to twelve million United States dollars 
(US$12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services approved for financing from the proceeds of the Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Grant, open and 
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
or attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Grant Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree 
works, goods and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2004 or such 
later date as shall be determined by the Administrator in agreement with 
the Donor. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the Grant 
(including deposits into the Grant Special Account) shall be made only to 
the extent that resources adequate to meet such disbursement shall have 
been transferred from the Donor to the Administrator.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles 
III and IV of, and Schedules 2 and 4 to, the TFCA are hereby incorporated 
into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they are fully 
set forth herein. For this purpose all references in said Articles and 
Schedules to: (a) the “Administrator” shall be deemed to be references to 
the International Development Association as Administrator of the Grant; 
(b) the “Credit” and “Credit Account” shall be deemed to be references to 
the Grant and the Grant Account; and (c) the “Special Account” shall be 
deemed to be references to the Special Account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to enable the Administrator to implement its 
undertaking under the MOA, the Recipient shall: (a) for purposes of 
Article 5 (c) of the MOA, put into effect procedures to ensure prior 
approval by the Fund of the contracting procedures and award decisions 
with respect to contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant; 
(b) for the purposes of Article 8 of the MOA, furnish to the 
Administrator, adequate information on progress in the carrying out of 
activities financed from the proceeds of the Grant; and (c) take 
appropriate administrative measures towards implementing the arrangements 
referred to in Article 14 of the MOA.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature 
thereof by the parties hereto and shall continue in effect until 
termination of the MOA or until the Grant has been fully disbursed and 
Page  3
the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
thereunder, whichever occurs first.
Section 4.02. In accordance with the MOA, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be terminated 
under a notice from one party to the other. The Recipient accepts and 
agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient to that 
effect, the Donor shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator 
under this Agreement as if the Donor had been an original party to this 
Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part 
of any party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have 
any rights or obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representatives
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority 
shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Beirut Street, Rimal,
Gaza City, Gaza 
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
MCI 248423; or
Washington, D.C.
MCI 64145
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
representatives duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed 
in their respective names in Gaza, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
By /s/ Mohammed Nashashibi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(as Administrator of a Grant provided by the 
Saudi Fund 
for Development)
Page  4
By /s/ Joseph Saba
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to such 
Categories and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in such Categories:
    Amount of the
     % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Works
     10,000,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
      1,000,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' Services 
      1,000,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
85% of local
expenditures
TOTAL
12,000,000
2.
For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures for 
goods, works or services supplied from the territory of any country other 
than the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in 
the currency used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority or for goods, works or services 
supplied from the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction 
of the Palestinian Authority, provided, however, that if the currency 
used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority is also that of a country from the territory of 
which goods, works or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such works or services shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures”.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
Page  5
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures 
for goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) 
expenditures for works under contracts costing less than $500,000 
equivalent each; (c) expenditures for services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (d) 
expenditures for services of individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits,” published by the Administrator in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
Goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be 
subject to the following provision, namely, that the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in, and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors from, the West Bank or Gaza.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$2,000,000 
equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Administrator. Said procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) 
tenders shall be advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in a 
local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) prospective bidders shall be 
allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days between the date upon which the 
notification appears in the newspaper for the first time and the date 
upon which the bid is submitted; (iii) the format of the bidding 
documents shall be consistent with that of the Administrator's standard 
bidding documents, or with the format of bidding documents used by United 
Nations Agencies operating in the West Bank and Gaza; (iv) interested 
foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid; (v) bids shall 
be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted whether mailed or 
hand-carried; (vi) all bids shall be opened at the same time in public; 
(vii) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) 
no bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify his, her or its bid 
after the bid closing date shall have elapsed; (ix) price negotiations 
with the lowest evaluated bidder shall be limited to cases provided for 
under the Guidelines; and (x) postqualification criteria shall, in the 
absence of a prequalification process, be explicitly stated in the 
bidding documents.
Page  6
2.
International/National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per 
contract, and not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international/national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Administrator for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) contracts procured in accordance with 
international competitive bidding procedures; (ii) the first two (2) 
contracts procured in accordance with national competitive bidding 
procedures; (iii) contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$500,000 or more per contract; and (iv) contracts for goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more per contract, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to contracts procured in accordance with 
international or national shopping procedures the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,” 
published by the Administrator in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  7
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Contracts
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Administrator for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to any other contract for the employment of 
consulting firms, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or more; (ii) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants procured in accordance with 
single source procedures; and  (iii) the first three (3) contracts for 
services, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Administrator for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
Page  8
1.
Without limitations upon Article 3 and Schedule 4 of the TFCA, the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Justice shall have overall responsibility for 
carrying out the Part F of the Project.
2.
The Ministry of Justice shall enter, not later than September 1, 
2000, into an implementation agreement with the Palestinian Economic 
Council for Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR), satisfactory to the 
Administrator, pursuant to which PECDAR shall be responsible for the 
appropriate design and management of the court construction provided 
under this Agreement.  Said implementation agreement shall, inter alia, 
make provision for the employment of a competent 
internationally-recruited firm as contract manager to oversee the 
execution of the works.
3.
The Recipient shall establish, not later than September 1, 2000, a 
steering committee, consisting of representatives of the Ministry of 
Justice and PECDAR, for the overall coordination of activities under Part 
F of the Project.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated 
to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to US$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into 
the Grant Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Grant Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it 
that the Grant Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Grant 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or 
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit in the Grant Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator requests for 
deposits into the Grant Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
Page  9
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of 
the Grant Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Grant Special 
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Grant Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined 
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly 
from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to 
the eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall 
follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Grant Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Grant Special Account: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator 
may request; or (B) deposit into the Grant Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Administrator into the Grant Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Grant Special Account will not be required 
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund 
to the Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the 
Grant Special Account.
Page  10
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
