Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 026063
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Legal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (Acting as Administrator 
of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank)
and
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
Dated June 24, 1997
TF 026063
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1997, between PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza and 
West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as 
amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and as further amended by Resolution No. 
96-11 and IDA 96-7, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association (the 
Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on 
February 3, 1997, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of ninety 
million dollars ($90,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the net income of 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the West 
Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority (as this 
expression is hereinafter defined);
(B)
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Page  2
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter alia, sets 
out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank (the 
Interim Agreement);
(C)
Section 1 of Article II of the Interim Agreement envisages the election 
in Gaza and the West Bank of a council with legislative and executive authorities (the 
Palestinian Council); Section 1 of Article V of the Interim Agreement provides that 
the executive authority of the Palestinian Council shall be bestowed upon a committee 
to be formed in accordance with the provisions of  Section 4 of the Interim Agreement 
(the Palestinian Authority or PA); and Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim 
Agreement authorizes the Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations 
and, in certain cases described thereunder, sign agreements with states and 
international organizations for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority;
(D)
the Borrower has requested the Administrator to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project);
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower, for the benefit of the PA, upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Palestinian Council for Development 
and Reconstruction, dated September 7, 1994, as amended, relating to the Emergency 
Rehabilitation Project (TF 026066 GZ), with the following modifications thereto (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Administrator or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision 
of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
(b)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator 
determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (c) 
at any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the 
Administrator to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the 
Credit Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the 
Page  3
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving 
of 
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“MOJ” means the Ministry of Justice of the Palestinian Authority;
(b)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit to be maintained pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph A.2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
“Steering Committee” means the committee established pursuant to the 
decision of the Minister of Justice of the Palestinian Authority, dated April 30, 
1997, whose functions shall include, inter alia, to monitor progress in Project 
implementation and to coordinate the execution of the Project with that of other 
projects and initiatives of the PA in the legal sector; and 
(e)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the PA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term shall include all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PA to pay to the Administrator a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Page  4
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause the PA to pay to the Administrator a 
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause the PA to repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 
commencing October 15, 2007, and ending April 15, 2037. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 15, 2017, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall cause the PA to designate MOJ as representative 
of the PA for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, business and financial practices and in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time by mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Administrator, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(a)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the PA 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the PA, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator;
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the PA to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of the PA therein set 
forth, shall cause the PA: (i) to take all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PA to 
carry out the Project; and (ii) not to take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with its ability to carry out the Project; and
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause the PA to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the PA and the 
Page  5
Administrator, a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; 
and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the PA on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PA to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the PA responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the PA to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the PA to:
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
disbursement from the Credit Account 
was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that PIU has been established; and
Page  6
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the PA.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the Borrower and the PA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the PA 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided under Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the PA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Palestine Liberation Organization
c/o The Palestinian Authority 
Gaza City
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
 Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ramallah, as of the day and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority
By /s/ Ibrahim Al-Daghma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Odin Knudsen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Page  7
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
    700,000
85%
(2)
Consultants’ services 
  4,000,000
100%
and training
(3)
Operating Expenditures
    400,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
    400,000
    TOTAL
  5,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Expenditures" means 
expenditures incurred by the PA, in respect of the Project, on account of salaries, 
rental of office space, insurance of vehicles, fuel, communications, utilities, travel 
and subsistence allowances, and interpretation and translation. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed five hundred fifty 
thousand dollars ($550,000) may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before the date of this Agreement but after 
April 30, 1997.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods costing less 
than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract; (b) expenditures for contracts costing 
less than the equivalent of $100,000 for services of consulting firms and $50,000 for 
services of individual consultants; and (c) Operating Expenditures. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the PA in: (a) starting the process 
of putting in place a legal framework adequate to support a modern market economy and 
the growth of the private sector; and (b) increasing the efficiency and predictability 
of the judicial process.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Modernization and Harmonization of Legal Framework 
1.
Strengthening the capabilities of MOJ in drafting suitable business, financial 
and economic legislation. 
2.
Preparation of diagnostic and other studies, and the carrying out of such other 
activities as shall be necessary to achieve the objectives of Part A.1 of the Project.
Part B:
Court Administration
Carrying out a program to improve the administration of the court system through 
(i) the upgrading of the central administration function; (ii) the establishment of a 
planning function; (iii) the establishment of a personnel classification system; (iv) 
Page  8
the improvement of the records management system; (v) the upgrading of the judicial 
statistics and management information systems; and (vi) the  development of standard 
legal forms.
Part C:
Judicial Training
Carrying out a judicial training program to enhance the effectiveness and 
competence of the judiciary through, inter alia: (i) the development of a judicial 
education structure and curriculum; (ii) the training of judicial educators; (iii) the 
development of a long-term training plan for judges and court personnel; and (iv) the 
development of teaching materials and codes of ethics.
Part D:
Alternative Dispute Resolution
Carrying out of: (i) a court-annexed pilot arbitration/mediation program; and 
(ii) research, based on data gathered under the said pilot program, to develop draft 
legislation governing alternative dispute resolution and standards for mediators and 
arbitrators.
Part E:
Legal Information
Carrying out a program to improve access to legal information through: (i) the 
enhancement of law libraries in MOJ and the court system; (ii) the publication and 
dissemination of legislation and court decisions; (iii) the development of bench 
manuals for judges and court support staff; (iv) the establishment of a legal data 
base in MOJ to support the dissemination of legislation; and (v) the establishment of 
a legal information connection to assist MOJ in its research work.  
*     *     * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Administrator in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
Goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be subject to the following provision, namely, 
that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the West Bank and Gaza.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $450,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Page  9
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $100,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more; and (b) the first contract to be procured under the provisions of 
Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services of international firms under Part C of the 
Project and services of staff of the PIU, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for all other technical assistance activities under the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
Page  10
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A.
Overall Project Implementation 
1.
The Borrower shall cause the PA to vest the responsibility for Project 
implementation in MOJ. MOJ shall be assisted in the carrying out of its functions by 
PIU which shall be responsible, inter alia, for the coordination of the implementation 
of the Project and the supervision of the execution thereof. PIU shall operate under 
the supervision of the Steering Committee.
2.
In order to achieve the objectives of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the 
PA to: (a) maintain PIU, within MOJ, with professional staff in adequate numbers, 
whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Administrator; (b) 
prepare and furnish to the Administrator, not later than December 31 of each year 
until completion of the Project, commencing December 31, 1997, a work program in 
respect of the activities to be carried out under Part A.1 of the Project in the 
course of the twelve (12) months immediately following the date of the above-mentioned 
program, and shall, after exchanging views with the Administrator with respect to such 
program, carry out said program taking into account the Administrator’s comments 
thereon;  and (c) ensure that training activities under Parts B, C and D of the 
Project shall be carried out in accordance with programs, including time-schedules for 
the implementation thereof, and criteria for the selection of candidates thereunder, 
agreed between the Borrower and the Administrator. 
B.
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall cause the PA to:  (a) maintain procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an on-going basis, in accordance with indicators agreed 
with the Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator: (i) on a quarterly basis until 
completion of the Project, commencing December 31, 1997, a report, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period of three (3) months preceding the date of such report, and (ii) on or about 
June 30, 1999, a mid-term report, integrating the data and other information contained 
in the reports prepared pursuant to subparagraph (b) (i) above, on the progress 
Page  11
achieved in carrying out the Project during the period preceding the date thereof and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project during the period following such date; and (c) review with the Administrator 
each such report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of such report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule equivalent to $550,000 provided, however, that unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for the Special Account shall be 
limited to an amount $220,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,  and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account, shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, on the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
 (i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
Page  12
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
