Report No. 23455
Report No: I067367 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/19/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ROMANIA         Project ID: P067367
Project: FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT      Task Team Leader: John W. Fraser
Stewart
Appraisal Date: October 12, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m): 33.33
Board Date: February 28, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSSD     Sector: AT - Forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the project is to maintain and improve environmentally
sustainable management of state and private forests so as to increase the
contribution to the national and rural economies that is derived from
Romanian forest resources.
I.A.3. Project Description:
In line with the development objective, the FDP will assist MAFF to: (a)
establish systems to ensure sustainable management of private forest
lands, through building of the capacity of the Department of Forests and
its forest inspectorate, supporting the development of private forest
owners associations, and establishing a forest management information and
monitoring system; (b) mitigate the consequences of restitution on the
management of State forest lands by assisting NFA to maintain, develop and
finance its important role in managing protection forests, and reduce the
environmental impacts and improve the economic efficiency of managing
State production forests through development of the forest road network;
(c) support increased productivity and competitiveness of forest
industries, through establishing and operating a Forest Sector Business
Information Center; and (d) build public support for sustainable forest
management by implementing a public awareness program targeting key
stakeholders with emphasis on new forest land owners and their associated
communities.
Components:
1. Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest
Lands
la. Forest Inspectorate: Supervisory, Regulatory and Advisory Capacity
lb. Support to the Association of Private Forest Owners
lc. Establishment of Community-based Associations of Local Forest
Owners
ld. Forest Management Information and Monitoring System
2. Mitigate Consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest Lands
2a. Reform and Strategic Development of the NFA
2b. Rehabilitation and New Construction of Forest Roads



3. Support Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest
Industries through the Establishment of a Forest Sector Business
Information Center
4. Build Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management
5. Project Management & Monitoring
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments: Romania's forests provide many important functions, including
biodiversity habitat, watershed protection, recreation and tourism and the
sustainable production of timber and non timber forest products. A major
goal of the project is to ensure that these goods and services are
maintained as forest is restituted and, subsequently, managed by its new
private owners. A secondary objective of the project is to reduce
environmental impacts associated with harvesting by improving the forest
road network. Since previous experience in Romania and elsewhere has
shown that potential environmental impacts associated with restitution of
forest lands can be significant, and since forest road construction and
rehabilitation has the potential for either negative or beneficial
environmental impact, the project was assigned as Environmental Category
"A" requiring full public disclosure and consultation. Consequently, in
accordance with World Bank policy for Environmental Category A projects
(OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, 1999), an independent Environmental
Assessment (EA) was completed during project preparation, and its findings
were used to refine project design.
Significant issues identified in the EA include the need to: (a) ensure
continued sustainable forest management practice on restituted forest land
through supervision and support by Government and education of new forest
owners, and (b) reduce the environmental impacts of forest harvesting by
improving forest road access, and (c) mitigate potential environmental
impacts of forest road construction and maintenance through establishing
environmental screening and assessment procedures.
The EA includes two elements: (a) a sectoral EA that assesses national
level impacts of the project, with emphasis on maintenance of sustainable
forest management practice on private and state forest lands and (b) the
development of an EA process that will be applied during implementation of
forest road construction and rehabilitation sub-projects. This entailed
undertaking example EAs for two forest road projects that will be financed
under the project. The EA includes environmental management plans (EMPs)
for national level activities funded under the project, and an
environmental screening process for all forest road construction and
rehabilitation works, and EA procedures to be applied for all new forest
roads and any forest road works where the screening process indicates the
potential for significant environmental impacts.
Recommendations arising from the EA process and included in the EMP were
either already addressed in the project design or were, subsequently,
incorporated in final design of the project. These included expanding and
- 2 -



targeting environmental training programs for the Forest Inspectorate,
NFA, and ForsBIC, and ensuring that ForsBIC will provide information and
advice on clean forest industry production techniques and the availability
of environmentally sustainable technologies. With respect to the roads
program, a new and more stringent environmental, social and economic
screening process will be undertaken on all proposed forest road
construction and rehabilitation activities. The screening process will
identify all new road or rehabilitation projects that should be subject to
more in depth environmental assessment. The EA also proposed elaboration
of terms of reference for a forest roads expert to be assigned to work
within the Project Coordination Team.
The EMP is detailed, broad ranging and meets the EA requirements.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    Yes
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    Yes
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
As noted in the box above, the project triggers Safeguard policies for
Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, and Forestry. It should be
noted that in none of these areas is there any potential for large-scale,
significant, and/or irreversible impacts as a result of the project.
Rather, the project is explicitly designed to forestall and prevent the
potential for signficant irreversible negative impacts which might be
associated with large-scale forest restitution in the absence of adequate
institutional and regulatory protections.
The Project is in compliance with the Bank's current forest policy in that
project design: (a) is based on a sector wide approach that will support
implementation of the recently prepared National Forest Policy and
Strategy, which emphasizes Governments commitment to forest conservation
and sustainable management; (b) emphasizes institutional development; and
(c) supports private sector development and the involvement of local
communities.
Under Romanian law category one protected areas are exempt from commercial
exploitation of forest resources and are not be eligible for restitution.
-3 -



The ongoing GEF/World Bank financed Biodiversity Conservation Management
Project is building the capacity for effective protected area planning and
management at three forested pilot sites in the Carpathian range. The
Forestry Development Project will augment this initiative by financing
equipment that will assist the NFA to build on the experience of the
biodiversity project and establish effective management of a national
network of forest protected areas. All forest road rehabilitation and
construction sub-projects financed under the project will be the subject
of individual environmental assessments and will be implemented in
accordance with the best practice guidelines that the project will develop
during the first year of project implementation.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
With regard to the Environmental Assessment Safeguard, key forest sector
stakeholders and interested parties were consulted on the content of the
EA terms of reference in October 2000 at public hearings at Piatra Neamt,
Arad, and Bucharest. Project preparation consultants undertook initial
environmental analysis in consultation with Government stakeholders and
NGOs in March 2001, and with local communities at Zarnesti, and Poina
Marului in April 2001. The EA consultant team undertook extensive liaison
and informal consultation with many stakeholder groups while preparing the
draft EA and pilot road EAs at Valea Mare-Crizbav, Brasov County,
Platinoasa and Prahova County in May 2001,    Public consultations on the
final draft EA took place in Poina Brasov in July 2001.
A broad range of sector stakeholders participated in the EA consultation
process, these included Central Government, local Government, private
companies, NGOs, the academic and environmental communities, media
including television, newspapers and journals, the national forest
owners'association, and local community representatives. The consultation
entailed the use of workshops that encouraged comment and debate.
Issues raised during the consultation process that have been addressed
through improvements in project design include: (a) the need to assist new
private forest owners to form associations to manage larger blocks of
private forest to ensure sustainability and reduce the likelihood of
illegal felling, which led to development of component lc. "Establishment
of Community-based Associations of Local Forest Owners"; (b) development
of best practice guidelines and EA procedures for all forest road
construction, and the opportunity to protect natural landscape and
- 4 -



cultural heritage through rehabilitation of the Waser forest railway.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      10/1/2001        10/1/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 9/22/2001         9/22/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available    10/12/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)        Not Available   10/19/2001
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        John W. Fraser Stewart   12/10/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Maria Amelina
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   12/18/2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Kevin Cleaver; Director 12/19/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 11, 2002\I067367.txt
January 7, 2002 10:54 AM
- 6 -



