Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25131-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 25.00 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 21, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 21, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lei
Lei 33,560 = US$1
US$1 = .000030 Lei
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCMP                GEF-financed Biodiversity Conservation Management Project
CAS                 World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
DoF                 Department of Forests
EA                  Environmental Assessment
EMP                 Environmental Management Plan
FDP                 World Bank Forest Development Project
FMIMS               Forest Management Information and Monitoring System
ForSBIC             Forest Sector Business Information Center
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
GoR                 Government of Romania
MAFF                Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Forests
NFA                 National Forest Administration
NFPS                National Forest Policy and Strategy
NGO                 Non-governmental Organization
PMR                 Project Management Report
PMU                 Project Management Unit
POC                 Project Oversight Committee
SAPARD              Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
VAT                 Value-added Tax
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:  Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader:   Peter A. Dewees



ROMANIA
FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    16
3. Benefits and target population                                                   17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    18
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      23
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         24
2. Financial                                                                        25
3. Technical                                                                        26
4. Institutional                                                                    27
5. Environmental                                                                    28
6. Social                                                                           30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               34



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  35
2. Critical risks                                                                   36
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  37
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         37
2. Other                                                                            37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       38
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      54
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                55
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            60
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  73
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 74
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               75
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         77
Annex 11: Social Issues                                                                79
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                                92
MAP(S)
IBRD 32169



ROMANIA
Forest Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: November21, 2002                           Team Leader: Peter A. Dewees
Sector Director: Laura Tuck                      Sector(s): Forestry (100%)
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink              Theme(s): Environmental policies and institutions (P),
Project ID: P067367                              Other rural development (S), Law reform (S)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SiL)
IProject Financing Data. -.
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee   ( ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 25.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: Z Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.25%                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Borrower to Pay from Own Resources
Fiinancin5 Plan (US$m): l  Source                          Local        .Foreign  -     Total
BORROWER                                                      2.01           0.00         2.01
EBRD                                                         24.44           0.56         25.00
BORROWING AGENCY                                              0.30           0.00          0.30
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                            4.59           0.00         4.59
Total:                                                       31.34           0.56         31.89
Borrower: ROMANIA
Responsible agency: MMIISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS
Address: 24, Blvd. Carol I, Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Viorel Marinescu, Director
Tel: 40-1-314 80 57/ext. 273        Fax: 40-1-313 21 98         Email:
Other Agency(ies):
National Forest Administration
Address: 31, Blv. Magheru, Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Filip Georgescu, General Director
Tel: 40-1-315 58 15/310 06 26        Fax: 40-1-222 84 28          Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY-        2003       200--     -205     -2006"      2do07.     2008
Annual     4.30       4.90      6.30       5.50      3.00       1.00
Cumulative     4.30      9.20      15.50     21.00     24.00      25.00
Project implementation period: 6 years - January 2003 through December 2008
Expected effectiveness date: 03/21/2003 Expected closing date: 06/30/2009
008 PAD F Re PJ VW



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to maintain and improve environmentally sustainable management of state
and private forests so as to increase the contribution to the national and rural economies derived from
Romanian forest resources.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators associated with these activities include:
(a)    Forest Inspectorate headquarter's and branch offices' capacity for providing better regulatory and
governance oversight for public and private sector forest management is increased through
training and through the provision of information technology.
(b)    A comprehensive Forest Management Information and Monitoring System (FMIMS) is
developed and is being implemented.
(c)    A public awareness strategy and campaign is developed and implemented which targets key
stakeholders, including the general public, Non-govermnental organizations, National Forest
Administration (NFA), and Government decision makers, to build public support for sustainable
forest management.
(d)    The capacity of the Departnent of Forests (DOF) is assessed and strengthened to provide
extension and advisory services to meet the needs of private forest owners, as well as to
supervise, regulate and monitor sustainable forest management activities in private and state
owned forest lands.
(e)    NFA has developed and is implementing a strategic plan to strengthen and finance its role in the
sustainable management of state-owned forests, and the operational and economic efficiency of
NFA activities is increased.
(f)    An outreach office for private forest owners associations is operational within MAFF, with
adequate staff and budget, and is providing a range of services to associations.
(g)    The Forest Sector Business Information Center (ForSBIC) is established and is providing
assistance for private investment in the forestry sector.
(h)    Best Practice Guidelines for the construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of Forest Roads
are prepared.
(i)    Road sub-projects are being designed in a manner consistent with Best Practice Guidelines, and
are being screened and assessed for their likely environmental impact. Inpacts are being
mitigated.
(j)    Forest road network is being rehabilitated and expanded on a pilot basis to reduce the
environmental impact and improve the economic viability of wood harvesting in state-owned
production forests. Environmental Management Plan under implementation.
(k)    Training for all project activities is implemented in accordance with a yearly training program
agreed between the Government and the Bank.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-0082 Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/19/01
The Project will address two of Romania's broad development goals as outlined in the joint Bank/IFC
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), namely, institution building and governance, and private sector
development. The project will contribute to improved governance by helping to build capacity within the
-2 -



Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry (MAFF), within national and local associations of private
forest owners association, and the NFA, and will contribute to private sector development by establishing
a Forest Sector Business Information Center (ForSBIC). Project objectives support several of the five
pillars of development for Romania identified through the Comprehensive Development Framework
process, and will lead to sustainable natural resource management, environmental protection, and
biodiversity conservation in state and private forest lands, greater access to opportunities for new private
forest owners, and the promotion of economic growth based on sustainable use of forest resources.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Overview
Value of Romanian Forests: Romania's forests cover almost one-third of the country and include some of
the last and largest tracts of natural and virgin old growth forests still remaining in Europe. They
constitute an extremely valuable natural resource in terms of their capacity for sustainable production of
forest products, provision of enviromnental services, and the conservation of biodiversity. While more
than half of Romania's forests are managed for protection functions (rather than for timber production),
in the year 2000 the export value of forest products was estimated at around US $1 billion, which was
equivalent to 10 percent of all exports. The value of environmental services associated with forests are,
however, considerably larger. A recent study (World Bank, "Economic Valuation and Reform of the
Forestry Sector, Romania," January 1999) indicated that the annual value of all products and services
provided by Rornania's forests, including environmental services but excluding value-added from forest
industries, is on the order of US $3.1 billion.
Forest Management and Financing: Over the last fifty years, most of Romania's forests have been owned
by the State and managed by the State-owned National Forest Administration (NFA). The NFA, with a
staff of 30,000 has a long and distinguished history of ecologically sound management of natural forests
and the wildlife populations they support. Separate institutions under the Ministry of Agriculture, Food
and Forests (MAFF) - principally the Department of Forests (DOF) with its Directorates of Strategy,
Policy and Legislation; and the Forest Inspectorate - are responsible for regulatory, monitoring, and
supervisory functions on all forest lands. There is mounting political pressure to commercialize the NFA
and to privatize a number of its non-core activities, coupled with pressures to return more than one-third
of all forest lands to their pre-1948 owners through the on-going process of restitution. Most of the land
that is scheduled for restitution is production forest, which currently generates most of the revenues
needed by NFA to undertake public functions associated with management of protection forest (53
percent of Romania's forest estate).
The Risks of Restitution and the Changing Role of the State in Forest Management: While the restitution
of forest lands will ultimately lead to greater democratization, empowerment, and improved distribution
of benefits from forest management to their owners and to associated rural conmmunities, there are risks
associated with the restitution process. Previous experience in Romania and elsewhere has shown that if
the restitution of forest lands takes place without adequate legal and institutional mechanisms, the almost
immediate loss of forest cover is likely to result, leading to irreversible environmental degradation and
significant economic losses for the country. Following the restitution of 350,000 hectares of Romanian
forest lands in 1991/92, approximately one-third of the area was clear-felled within three years and many
other restituted areas were harvested at unsustainable rates, leading to an overall loss in productive
capacity. The total economic cost of this event - measured in terms of loss of watershed protection
functions, erosion, related flooding damage, reduced timber production, and reduced wildlife habitats -
has been conservatively estimated to be on the order of US $1.5 billion. In anticipation of the much
larger-scale restitution of forest lands which is about to take place, the role of the State will need to
- 3-



change rapidly to reduce the potentially devastating impacts of restitution on forests, the environment,
and on the sector's long-term productive capacity. At the same time, the ability of new forest owners to
undertake sustainable forest management will be constrained by technical skills, access to markets, and
investment capital.
Table 1: Profile of the Forest Sector of Romania
Total Forest Area:                      6.37 million hectares
Forest Ownership (June 1998)
State:                                92%
Private:                               8%
Forest types
Beech:                                 30%
Oaks:                                  19%
Coniferous:                           30%
Other:                                 21%
National forest stock:                   1,350 million m3
Annual growth:                          5.6 m3 / ha / year
Annual Allowable Cut (2001):            17 million m3 / year
Geographical distribution
Mountains:                             60%
Hills:                                 30%
Plains:                                10%
Functional distribution
Protection forests (not protected areas):  53%
Production forests:                    47%
Under the previous regime, Romania invested heavily in training, producing some of Europe's best
silviculture and technical specialists. Furniture exports were among the highest in Europe and the sector
supported a high level of employment. The economic and political transition has led to reduced
production and employment in the sector, and the nation's forests resources continue to be undervalued
and progressively under-utilized. The sector remains, however, a significant provider of rural
employment and income. In the year 2000, approximately 30,000 people were employed in forest
management; 67,000 in logging and primary processing; 21,000 in pulp and paper industries, and over
100,000 in furniture manufacturing. Forest-based tourism and the collection and sale of non-timber
forest products provides employment for large numbers of the Romanian rural population. There are
significant opportunities to increase the scale, competitiveness and profitability of Romanian wood
industries, and employment supported by the sector, while maintaining public and private forests under
sustainable management, as well as protecting Romania's rich forest biodiversity.
Main sector issues:
The main issues facing the sector include:
(a)    the need to implement the recently prepared National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS) to
provide overall direction for reform of the sector and to improve the climate for increased
investment in management, production, and processing;
(b)    the challenge of improving Govemment's supervisory, regulatory, and monitoring capacity to
-4 -



maintain forests under sustainable management after restitution;
(c)    the need to finance and maintain NFA's role in managing and safeguarding remaining
State-owned production and protection forests following restitution, in the face of the loss of a
large proportion of the production forests from which it currently derives much of its revenues;
(d)    the need to establish a timber pricing policy that is transparent and fair to forest owners and
wood buyers;
(e)    the low density of the forest road network in production forests, which causes localized negative
environmental impacts from harvesting, and high harvesting and transport costs; and
(f)    inefficiency of private wood processing industries,which are constrained by the use of outdated
technology as well as by lack of access to capital to finance needed improvements, and to
high-value markets which could improve their market position.
National Forest Sector Policy and Strategy: Recent sector analysis and stakeholder consultation led to
the participatory development of a comprehensive national forest sector policy and strategy (NFPS) to
address the urgent strategic choices facing the sector. Development of the NFPS was undertaken over a
ten month period commencing in early 2000, through a participatory process involving representatives of
all forestry sector stakeholder groups. In addition to defining overall forestry policy at the national level,
the NFPS sets out and prioritizes a series of specific strategic actions to achieve policy goals and
provides the basis for the coordinated and sustainable development of the sector. The NFPS has recently
been adopted by Government and the challenge is now to implement the strategic actions it proposes.
Restitution of forest lands: Government is under pressure to proceed rapidly with the restitution of
forest lands as part of the broader restitution and democratization process. Under Law 1/2000, requests
have been submitted by different categories of former owners for the restitution of approximately 3
million hectares of forest land. hnplementation of the restitution process has recently been speeded up
and it is likely that about two million hectares (approximately one third of Romanian forests) will be
returned to private owners by 2003.
Table 2. Claims for forest land under law 1/2000 by owne rship category
Type of Ownership                  Area (ha)          Percent of Total
Private Individuals                                900,961                 30
Communities/undivided private ownership *          725,857                 24
Churches, education institutions                    65,407                 2
Municipalities, towns, communes                   1,280,763               43
Expatriate Romanians                                15,075
Total                                             2,988,063               100
* Communities/undivided private ownership is a traditional formn of forest ownership, whereby a land is jointly
owned by a group of villagers rather than the local civil administration
Implementation of the restitution process has been delayed due to uncertainty of how to implement the
legislation. For example, it may be difficult to restitute an area that formerly belonged to a commuunity,
as many of the former owners or their descendants may have moved away from the area and other people
have moved in. Similarly, there is ongoing debate concerning how to implement the law with respect to
claims by national church authorities for forests that were formerly owned by a church that has since
closed, and for churches that have been more recently established. Despite these difficulties, the speed of
- 5-



restitution is accelerating and extensive areas will be returned to the various categories of private owners
in the near future.
Evolving role of the National Forest Administration: Under the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Forests (MAFF), the Department of Forests (DOF), is responsible for policy, legal, regulatory and
supervisory functions on all forest lands. Management responsibility, however, rests with the National
Forest Administration (NFA) which currently manages, on behalf of Government, more than 85 percent
of Romania's forests. This area will be reduced dramatically after restitution. Since most of the forests
which will be returned to former owners are production forests, restitution will significantly increase the
proportion of non-revenue generating activities undertaken by the NFA (such as the management of
watershed protection forests, many of which are areas rich in forest biodiversity) as a share of its total
expenditure. Restitution will have the added impact of breaking up contiguous blocks of forest
administered by NFA, thereby making management more difficult and costly. Consequently, NFA is
expected to encounter difficulties in financing its public functions - primarily maintaining and managing
the State's protection forests - using its own decreasing revenue generating activities.
In the year 2000, NFA's revenues were US $172.73 million, including an estimated US $32 million from
non-timber forest products. The profit outturn was equivalent to 9.3 percent on sales before interest and
tax, which comnpares poorly, for example, with returns of 24 percent and 21 percent for state-owned
forest management authorities in Ireland and Sweden. This apparent inefficiency relates partly to the
large number of non- revenue generating public service functions, including forest protection, which
NFA finances from its own revenues. Because NFA is currently taxed on profit, there is an incentive to
increase expenditure rather than to generate profits. Additionally, there is currently no obligation to pay
the State a rent for the use of the forest resource or to pay dividends to its primary shareholder (i.e., the
State). Under NFA's current accounting system, it is not possible to quantify and compare the economic
and fiscal costs and benefits associated with NFA's public good and commercial functions in
management of State forest resources. To do this is not easy, as limited harvesting is permitted in forests
managed primarily for watershed protection. Consequently, there is a risk that restitution will result in
the inadequate allocation of resources to public good functions and that fiscal benefits from the
management of productive State forests may not be fully captured.
Faced with the loss of large areas of production forests through restitution, NFA is considering further
diversification of its economic activities to include more non-core forest management activities (some of
which might be more effectively undertaken by the private sector). In the absence of a comprehensive
and transparent accounting system, which separates public good functions from commercial economic
costs and benefits, it is impossible to assess whether cross-subsidies from NFA's existing and new
diversified activities will be adequate for addressing financial shortfalls. The lack of clarity in
accounting practice allows for allegations of inefficiency.
Timber Pricing Policy: Currently NFA sells timber through competitive sealed bid tenders primarily
for standing timber, and also for a limited amount of timber felled and extracted to the roadside. The
average annual floor price for tenders is supervised by the Competition Office (which answers to the
Prime Minister's office) and is set by Government Ordinance. The average floor price is calculated by
taking the total annual costs of the NFA plus an agreed profit margin, and dividing this cost by the
estimated volume of the annual harvest. The floor price for individual tenders is set by local offices of
NFA at a level above or below the average floor price after taking the estimated value of the wood to be
sold (size, species and quality) into consideration. This method for setting the average annual floor price
for timber does not take into account the market value of the wood or the harvesting costs borne by the
purchaser but does include the cost of non-commercial activities undertaken by the NFA. The return to
-6 -



the state for the sale of its resources is included (through the provision of the public services undertaken
by NFA and the profit margin) but is not quantifiable. Consequently, the current timber pricing policy
may not capture the market value of the resource, and obscures State subsidies for public good functions.
There is a need to introduce a floor pricing system that would reflect both the cost of production as well
as market conditions, while capturing rent for the management of state forest resources. The calculation
of floor prices should be revised to incorporate costs over time to not only better capture the value of the
resource, but also to provide greater clarity about the extent to which revenues from the sale of timber
finance NFA's provision of public goods functions, such as protected area and watershed catchment
management.
Access to the forest resource: Forest roads are needed to provide access for harvesting and forest
management. A low density of forest roads results in the need to skid (drag) logs longer distances from
the point where they are felled to a road where they can be loaded onto trucks. From an environmental
perspective, the longer skidding distance results in erosion on arterial skidding trails. Further, damage to
the forest floor and standing trees is increased in proportion to the distance logs need to be dragged. Low
forest road density also encourages over-harvesting in areas near to the road, since longer skidding
distances also increase harvesting costs. Consequently, a sub-optimal density of forest roads results in
greater environmental impacts, higher costs, and lower economic returns from harvesting.
Romania has a network of different types of roads and railways that are used for forest harvesting. These
include: 32,500 km of forest roads; 65 km of forest railroads; 1,450 km of roads used for harvesting but
which were primarily intended to be used for other purposes (such as for mining and to construct and
service hydroelectric dams); and 7,600 km of public roads in forests on which wood collection is
permitted. The network was mainly constructed during the period 1960-1985. Since 1994, when forest
roads became the responsibility of the NFA, some 365 km of forest roads have been constructed, and 294
km rehabilitated. This network of approximately 42,000 km, provides a density of 6.1 m/ha, of which
only 4.7 m/ha are forest roads. As a result of heavy rains over the last several years, the existing road
network has deteriorated and 7,000 km of forest roads have become inoperative, thereby further
decreasing the degree of accessibility and reducing the effective road density to around 5.3 m/ha. This
road density compares poorly with other European countries with largely similar topography (e.g.,
Austria 36 m/ha, Switzerland 40 m/ha, France 26 m/ha, Germany 45 m/ha). The NFA estimates that only
65% of Romanian production forests are economically accessible.
In 2000, the European Union (EU) funded the upgrading of some forest roads which provided access to
villages under the Social Development Fund (SDF) program. Romania's National Rural Development
Plan, approved by the EU, includes the provision of SAPARD funding for forest roads on private lands.
Even with this investment, the road density will still be significantly less than the minimum level
recommended by the FAO and the Forest Research and Management Institute (ICAS) [reported in the
1993 'Forestry Sector Review', prepared by the FAOlWorld Bank Cooperative Program]. More recently,
NFA has undertaken feasibility studies for upgrading of 600 km and construction of 430 km of new
forest roads at an estimated cost of US $42 million. Neither the State nor NFA have the resources for this
level of investment.
Low productivity in private wood processing industries: The timber industry has traditionally focused
on supplying markets in the former Soviet Bloc and in the Middle East. One of the outcomes of this
focus has been that the industry specialized in producing large quantities of low quality products -
market share which is now being met from other sources - and so these markets have disappeared over
time. The industry has never made the investment needed in new technologies to improve extraction and
processing, and so remains highly inefficient, and unable to deliver product for higher value markets.
- 7 -



There are a number of associated issues, which include the inability of Small and Medium Enterprises
(SMEs) to access credit, and problems with respect to the security of raw material supply. Nonetheless,
the valued-added potential of Romanian timber and timber products is substantial.
Inability of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to access credit
The inability of small and medium-sized wood harvesting and processing finms to access loans for capital
investment to replace outdated and inefficient equipment relates partly to how legislation treated
moveable assets and inventory as collateral, and partly to lack of business planning skills and awareness
of opportunities to access credit. Recent legislation (Law No. 99/2001) that allows for greater and more
effective use of assets as collateral is a positive step. However, in view of the scale of investment
required, and the current absence of adequate support to SMEs in identifying and accessing sources of
credit, the change in legislation will have little immediate impact. The US $80 million World Bank
Rural Finance Project is expected to provide financing which could be made available for investment in
the forest industry. However, there is an additional need to improve access to information about the
availability of existing and developing opportunities for financing forest industry investments.
Security of raw material supply
Earlier, under the Forest Code (Law 26/24 of 1996), the NFA was not allowed to enter into long-term
contracts with processors to guarantee raw material supply. This provision of the Forest Code was only
recently changed, and a Govermment Ordinance allowing long term contracts (up to 10 years) was
approved by Cabinet in spring 2002. Although there have been large investments in mills that utilize
small wood, some investors have not proceeded with investment plans because of uncertainties about
long-term supply. As restitution proceeds, a considerable proportion of the production forest will be
transferred to the private sector. This would also allow forest owners associations to enter into long-term
supply contracts with small wood processors, which would be of benefit to the forest owners and will
likely create the environment for future investment. Investors have already expressed interest in setting
up joint ventures for SMEs with groups of private forest owners.
Lack of coordination between growing and processing sectors: Responsibility for supervision of the
timber growing (silviculture and forest management) sector rests with the MAFF, while the Ministry of
Industry (MoI) is responsible for supervision of the log transport and wood processing sectors. This
division of responsibility has resulted in poor communication and in a lack of coordination across the
forest sector, acting to the detriment of the development of the sector as a whole. There is a need to
bring all of the sectors together to capitalize on their potential to contribute to the national economy.
Legislation, Enforcement and Governance: There is relatively little information known about the
extent of corruption in the forest sector. Some estimates have suggested that between 5 and 20 percent of
the timber on the market in Romania had been illegally harvested, but the basis for these estimates was
largely anecdotal and they are not reliable. Even so, the failure to capture revenues as a result of
corruption and illegal harvesting increases the overall cost of management, and supports rates of forest
harvesting which are not consistent with generally accepted norms of sustainable forest management.
The perception of corruption in the forestry sector is no doubt partly fueled by the position of the NFA,
which has long had control over extensive and valuable forest assets, and has remained relatively
well-financed from its profits. Having said this, virtually no diagnostic work has been carried out which
has adequately characterized problems in the sector, or which has sought to identify how these particular
challenges can be tackled.
Action on corruption in the forestry sector will have to be forward-looking. The restitution of much of
the revenue-producing forest lands to private owners will have important impacts on the behavior of both
- 8 -



market players and the NFA. Future action will have to be responsive to various behavioral changes
likely to result from this fundamental change in ownership rights. Success in addressing administrative
failures and state capture in Romania will require a broad-based program that brings transparency and
accountability to political life and to public administration more generally, rather than to the forestry
sector in isolation. Government has placed a high priority on tackling the problem of corruption by
preparing and adopting its 'National Program for Prevention of Corruption.'
Government Strategy
In 1992/93 with assistance from FAO and the World Bank, Government undertook a review of the forest
sector that identified key areas for reform. In 1995, the Government developed a Forestry Strategy that
similarly identified key actions to guide forest sector reform. The strategy did not, however, address the
issue of restitution, nor an integrated approach to sector development. In 1996, as part of its Forestry
Strategy, the Govermment promulgated the Forest Code (Law 26/24 April 1996) outlining general
provisions for the protection and long-term management of the national "Forestry Fund" (forest estate).
In 1999, Govenmment prepared a first draft for a Silvicultural Strategy, which primarily addresses the
timber-growing sector and, as such, is limited in scope. Also in 1999, in response to a Government
request, the World Bank augmented the 1992/93 forestry sector review, with a Forestry Sector Note,
which outlined the status, values and need for reforms in anticipation of the planned forest restitution
program.
The 1999 Forestry Sector Note describes a three-phase strategy for reform of the forestry sector, focusing
on immediate, medium and long-term needs, together with the rationale for actions needed to implement
medium-term priorities. The priority immediate need identified in the Sector Note was the preparation of
a comprehensive forestry sector policy and strategy. With the assistance of the World Bank, Government
facilitated the participatory preparation of the National Forestry Policy and Strategy (NFPS) over a
ten-month period commencing in early 2000. The FDP is designed to assist in implementation of the
medium-term needs identified in the Sector Note and articulated in the NFPS, which has recently been
adopted by Government.
In conjunction with the program outlined in the NFPS, Government has also sought to strengthen its
system of protected area management, and has received resources from the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) to finance its Biodiversity Conservation and Management Project (BCMP). This US $8.8 million
project, launched in 1999, seeks to establish effective intersectoral participatory planming and sustainable
management of natural ecosystems and associated landscapes at three demonstration sites in the
Carpathian mountains, and mechanisms to support replication of these activities at other priority sites.
The BCMP is a critical element of the overall approach toward improving Romania's management of its
forest resources.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues to be addressed by the project
Restitution of Forest Lands: In anticipation of the risks associated with restitution, Government has
established (through Ordinance No.96 of 1998) how private forest owners will work within the
framework of the existing forest management planning process. The project will establish the
institutional capacity to supervise, monitor and regulate forest management planning and to ensure
continued sustainable management of the forest resource, with particular focus on restituted forest lands.
This will be achieved by strengthening the DOF's network of Forest Inspectorate offices, and through
creation of a national Forest Management Infornation and Monitoring System (FMIMS). The project
-9-



will provide for the establishment and development of extension and advisory services, targeted at the
new private forest owners, to support sustainable management of their forests. The project will provide
training for the Forest Inspectorates, not only in relation to their supervisory and regulatory roles, but
also in participatory techniques, communication and conflict resolution. The project will build support
for sustainable management of Romanian forest resources through the development of private forest
owners' associations, and through a targeted public awareness campaign.
Evolving role of NFA: In view of the likely impact on NFA of forest restitution, and the need to clarify
NFA's future role in the development of the State forest sector, the project will undertake analysis that is
urgently needed to delineate and separate the economic and fiscal costs and benefits associated with
NFA's public good and commercial functions. The findings of this analysis would then provide the basis
for design and establishment of an integrated and transparent accounting system, and preparation and
implementation of a plan for strategic reform and development of NFA, to ensure that the State's
functions in relation to sustainable management of protection forests and protected areas are adequately
financed, and State production forests are managed efficiently. The project will assist by establishing an
information management system and interface with Forest Management Information Monitoring System
(FMIMS) that the project will establish within DOF, and through provision of training, including
experience sharing with similar State forest administrations in other European countries. The FDP will
also provide logistical support for expansion of the forest protected area network, in close coordination
with the ongoing World Bank/GEF financed Biodiversity Conservation Management Project.
Timber Pricing Policy: The project will provide support to undertake analysis and develop
recommendations for reform of the timber pricing process to develop a more transparent system, so that
the expenditure on public goods and services can be demonstrated and the return to the state for the sale
of its timber resources known. Under an improved timber pricing system, the setting of floor and reserve
prices should reflect a number of factors in addition to NFA's operational costs. These factors include,
but would not necessarily be limited to, international prices for imports and exports, the costs of
management, the costs of harvesting, and reasonable profit margins for both the growers and processors.
In the post-restitution era, the NFA will still be the largest producer of timber and as such will have a
large impact on log and timber prices for the whole sector, including the new private forest owners. It is
therefore important that a clear and transparent pricing policy is established.
Access to Forest Resource: The project will provide resources to improve the forest road network, and
will demonstrate Best Practice in road design and construction methods, emphasizing the need for
environmental screening and impact assessment, as well as cost benefit analysis, to guide road placement
and construction, and to facilitate competitive bidding and cost effectiveness. The project is expected to
finance a series of roads rehabilitation and roads extension sub-projects, on a pilot basis, in a series of
tranches, expected to comprise around 10 km of new roads construction (in 4 sub-projects) and 425 km
of roads and railway infrastructure rehabilitation (in around 53 sub-projects). As a pilot activity, roads
and railway subprojects represent a very small fraction of the total length of forest roads or associated
harvesting and extraction infrastructure in Romania - less than 1.5 percent of the total existing network.
Although Romanian forest road design and construction techniques have high technical engineering
standards, there is currently no requirement for environmental screening or environmental impact
assessment. Consequently, the project will establish procedures, using this pilot approach, for
environmental screening and, where appropriate, more detailed environmental assessment of forest road
rehabilitation and construction, and will develop best practice guidelines that will be incorporated into
the design and the technical specifications for all road construction contracts. The project will also
establish an open and competitive tendering process for road construction in a manner which builds local
capacity for best practice roads construction.
- 10 -



Productivity and Competitiveness of Private Wood Processing Industries and Coordination
between the Growing and Processing Sectors: The project will support and catalyze development of
forest industries by establishing the Forest Sector Business Information Center (ForSBIC), which will
provide forest-based industries with feasibility study and business planning assistance; and information
on new technologies, markets and prices, access to funding, potential joint venture partners, and
legislative requirements for initiating and operating forest industries. The Forest Sector Business
Information Center will also provide the much needed sectoral linkages and coordination for the forest
industry chain (growing - logging - transport - primary and secondary processing) that is currently
lacking. Initially, the center will be established under the auspices of DOF but will become financially
and administratively independent over the life of the project, in much the same manner as the German
Central Marketing Agency for forest industries.
Strategic choices
The concept of the FDP was developed through an inclusive and participatory process in Romania.
During the preparation of the National Forest Policy and Strategy Process (undertaken over a 10 month
period commencing in early 2000), representatives of major stakeholders in the forestry sector
participated in a series of facilitated workshops to identify the main issues facing the sector, their
underlying causes, the desired changes, and finally to build a consensus among stakeholders regarding
the necessary interventions to achieve the identified objectives. A vision statement, strategy and
rationale for reform of the forestry sector was then developed by senior policy and technical experts
within the former MAFF and representatives of major stakeholders through a number of participatory
workshops. The NFPS was approved by the Govermment in 2001. The strategic choices for the
development of the forest sector in Romania were made during the NFPS process. The FDP is designed
to support implementation of these strategic choices and its overall aim is to maintain and improve
environmentally sustainable mnanagement of state and private forests and to increase their contribution to
the national and rural economies.
Strengthening the Status Quo: During project identification, consideration was given simply to
strengthening the status quo. This was rejected because: (a) it would put at risk the sustainable
management of over 2 million ha of restituted forests and would lead to over exploitation, loss of habitat,
oversupply of timber with a reduction in price, high quality timber going to low value use and significant
damage to the enviromnent including possibly protected areas; (b) decrease any chance for Romanian
timber to be certified and gain access to higher value export markets; (c) do nothing to address the policy
and sector reform issues identified.
Options for Developing the Forest Road Network: Project identification considered two alternatives
with respect to the development of the forest road network: (a) no roading; or (b) major roading, based on
FAO recommendations for upgrading 1,000 km of existing road and the construction of 1,500 km of new
roads. The chosen alternative focuses on pilot infrastructure development aimed at identifying best
practices and improving efficiency in construction. Various derivatives of each of these options were also
considered, primarily in terms of the extent to which institutional investments would be made. A range of
alternatives were further explored and analyzed during project preparation.
-1 1-



The 'no roading' alternative would have meant that only limited resources would be available for roads
rehabilitation and construction, and that additional expertise to prepare and introduce environmentally
sound roading practices would not be tapped. The development of a model of production under these
circumstances would be highly problematic, as it would have to incorporate international prices for
roundwood, increasing extraction costs, a reduction in silvicultural operations over time (because of
inaccessibility), as well as the higher (and non-costed) environmental costs of increasingly damaging
extraction methods and the soil erosion and siltation which would result. Policy variables would also
have to be incorporated into the model, to account for the impact of roads on the delivery of rural
services (where forest roads perform this function), as well as to take account of the extent of the process
of restitution.
The 'full roading' option was also considered, but the costs of this approach would have far exceeded the
resources available both from Government and from the World Bank. In addition, heavy investments in
roading would have been pointless in the absence of substantive institutional investments, which are
widely viewed to be critical for the sector to be placed on a more sound footing.
The 'without project' scenario: The 'without project' scenario was also considered during project
preparation. Despite the Romanian Government's commitment to sustainable forest management,
unsustainable exploitation of forests, similar to that which occurred after the last phase of restitution in
1991, is anticipated without the establishment of an effective supervisory and regulatory capacity, which
the project supports. The Romanian Government would be unable to commit sufficient budgetary
resources to establish a functioning Forest Inspectorate and existing Govermnent and NGO groups
concerned with private forests would remain weak, ineffective, uncoordinated, and isolated. For these
reasons, this option was rejected.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The FDP will assist MAFF to: (a) establish systems to ensure sustainable management of private forest
lands, through building of the capacity of the Department of Forests and its Forest Inspectorate,
supporting the developrnent of private forest owners associations, and establishing a forest management
information and monitoring system; (b) mitigate the consequences of restitution on the management of
State forest lands by assisting NFA to maintain, develop and finance its important role in managing
protection forests, and reduce the environmental impacts and improve the economic efficiency of
managing State production forests by piloting new, environmentally sensitive, forest road construction
practices; (c) support increased productivity and competitiveness of forest industries, through
establishing and operating a Forest Sector Business Information Center; and (d) build public support for
sustainable forest management by implementing a public awareness program targeting key stakeholders
with an emphasis on new private forest owners.
- 12 -



Component                      Indicative          .I Bank;     '% of.
z"" 1 Component                  Costs     % of     financing,  Bank-
(US$M)     Total'     US$M). financing:
1. Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of          0.0                  0.0
Private Forest Lands
la. Forest Inspectorate: Supervisory, Regulatory and  4.70     14.6      3.83       15.3
Advisory Capacity
lb. Support for National and Local Associations of  0.58        1.8      0.54       2.2
Private Forest Owners
Ic. Forest Management Information and Monitoring    4.77       14.8      4.06       16.2
System
0.0                  0.0
2. Mitigate Consequences of Restitution on Management of          0.0                  0.0
State Forest Lands
2a. Reform and Strategic Development of the NFA      1.10       3.4      0.92        3.7
2b. Rehabilitation and New Construction of Forest   18.14      56.4      13.57      54.3
Roads
3. Support Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of  0.72    2.2       0.38       1.5
Forest Industries through the Establishment of a Forest
Sector Business Information Center
4. Build Public Support for Sustainable Forest         0.69        2.1      0.60       2.4
Management
5. Project Management & Monitoring                     1.19       3.7       1.10       4.4
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   0 .0   _0 .0
Total Project Costs  31.89     99.2      25.00     100.0
Front-end fee    0.25       0.8       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required    32.14     100.0      25.00     100.0
Note: The Front-End Fee is not part of the Loan (it is not capitalized), but rather is to be paid by the Borrower from its own
resources. Therefore, it does not show up in other cost tables in the docurnent. It is shown here for completeness.
The project is comprised of five components:
Component 1: Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest Lands (US
$10.05 million) through:
(a) Strengthening of the Department of Forests, with emphasis on the nationwide Forest Inspectorate
and support service, within MAFF to supervise, regulate and monitor sustainable forest management
activities in private and state forest lands, as well as provide extension and advisory services to meet the
needs of the new private forest owners. The project will provide the physical resources needed by the
DOF's Forest Inspectorate to become effectively operational, including: (a) office furniture and
equipment, including computers, software, printers, fax machines etc, for headquarters and for the
- 13 -



Inspectorates 16 branch offices and 100 forest districts; (b) field equipment, including measurement and
survey equipment needed to enable staff to undertake necessary supervisory, monitoring and control
activities; (c) vehicles needed to enable staff undertake the necessary field inspections; and (e) training
equipment to support the development of an in-house training capacity;
(b) Supportfor the Development of National and Local Associations of Private Forest Owners,
through MAFF by providing for the establishment and operation of national and local associations of
private forest owners, including providing assistance for the development of membership profiles,
recruitment plans, service-delivery profiles, business development plans, and capacity building for
financial and procurement management through the provision of training and services. At the local level,
the project will provide support through targeted community development assistance in areas with high
levels of poverty where forest lands will be restituted to individual owners, joint common owners and
communal owners (at the village and commune level) and who currently have limited capacity to
organize; and
(c) Establishing a nationalforest management information and monitoring system (FMIMS),
consisting of a broad package of software, including both 'off-the-shelf packages and specialized,
to-be-designed, applications, and associated hardware. The FMIMS is needed by the Forest Inspectorate
for supervision and control to ensure sustainable management and development of the forest sector, by
providing updated and integrated access to forest management plans, cadastre, laws and regulations,
forest inventory and biodiversity, data on the flow of forest products, and statistics on forest industries
and trade.
Component 2: Mitigate the Consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest Land (US
$19.24 million) by:
(a) Supporting Reform and Strategic Development of the NFA through preparing and assisting NFA to
implement a strategic plan to develop and finance its role in managing State forests. This will be
achieved through: (i) identifying, quantifying and separating the costs and benefits of the public good and
economic functions of NFA, and preparing a financial accounting system to ensure that all activities are
adequately resourced; (ii) preparing and assisting with implementation of a plan for reforming and
strengthening the institutional capacity to improve operational and commercial efficiency, thereby
optimizing revenue generation from production forest, while safeguarding the public interest and
ecological services provided by protection and production forests; (iii) developing a detailed, phased and
costed action plan for NFA's non-core activities, for either privatization or development, including
provision of management services to the new private sector; (iv) assisting NFA to define its infonnation
management system requirements to support its strategic development, and providing the hardware and
software necessary for an interactive link with the national forest management information and
monitoring system that the project will establish within the Department of Forests (see above); (v)
establishing an objective and auditable process for determining reserve pricing for timber auctions; and
(vi) providing logistical support in terms of vehicles and equipment required to manage the forest
protected area network, which is being developed with the assistance of the ongoing Biodiversity
Conservation Management Project; and
(b) Rehabilitating and extending theforest road network, on a pilot basis, to improve the economic
viability of wood harvesting in State-managed production forests, and to test approaches toward reducing
the negative environmental impacts of forest road conistruction. Investments in road construction and
rehabilitation are expected to have a positive impact on the economic performance of the NFA and will
help offset the increased costs which are expected to be incurred by the NFA as its relative
- 14-



responsibilities for the maintenance of protection forests increases with the restitution of production
forests. All the locations of all road sub-projects will be selected through a process of environmental,
social and economic screening and impact assessment. 'Best Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads' will
be prepared in the first year of implementation and will be included in tender documents/contracts for
international and national competitive bidding to ensure both competitive pricing and that
environmentally sound construction and rehabilitation techniques are used. Compliance with these
Guidelines will be independently monitored by mechanisms established by the project. The development
and use of the Best Practice Guidelines would guide the engineering process for a series of roads
rehabilitation and roads extension sub-projects, in a series of tranches, expected to comprise around 10
km of new roads construction (in 4 sub-projects) and 425 km of roads and railway infrastructure
rehabilitation (in around 53 sub-projects). As a pilot activity, proposed roads subprojects represent a
very small fraction of the total length of forest roads or associated harvesting and extraction
infrastructure in Romania - less than 1.5 percent of the total existing network.
Roads rehabilitation is unlikely to have a significant impact on planned harvesting rates, because
harvesting rates in state forests (the Annual Allowable Cut) have already been established as a result of
detailed forest management plans. These rates of exploitation would continue with or without project
support. The primary benefit of the roads rehabilitation work would be to reduce the costs of extraction,
to increase producer margins and market competitiveness, and to reduce the environmental damage
which has been an outcome of continued logging on poorly maintained roads. Roads targeted for
rehabilitation are primarily those which were damaged as a result of recent heavy rains, landslides, and
floods.
New forest roads would primarily be extensions of existing roads into forests which are already under
management. These do not pass through isolated undisturbed forests. Many of these areas are already
being intensively exploited using an extensive network of extremely damaging skidding trails. The
overall impact of the roads included in the program will be to reduce the dependence on skidding trails
for extraction. Exploitation in these areas will continue with or without project support. No forest road
will be built in a national park or protected area.
Project design has incorporated robust and sound safeguards. The development of Best Practice
Guidelines through an open, participatory and consultative process (considering environmental and social
concerns) sets an important precedent for road design and construction in Romania. The Guidelines will
guide the design of all new and rehabilitated roads. Once roads redesign has been completed, roads
sub-projects will be screened again for their likely environmental impact. Those not meeting
environmental and social screening criteria would be rejected or subject to an individual Environmental
Assessment which will identify mitigation steps.
Component 3: Support Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest Industries (US $0.72
million) by: establishing the Forest Sector Business Information Center (ForsBIC), an independent
business development and advisory service, which will establish linkages and coordination within the
forest industry chain (i.e., silviculture, harvesting, transport, primary and secondary processing), and
provide assistance to wood and related forest industries, through review and dissemination of information
on new technologies, markets and prices, export and hygiene requirements, product promotion and
branding, opportunities for joint venture partnerships, and the availability of grants, and credit, etc. The
project will finance a portion of the basic goods (hardware and software, office supplies, etc.) required
for the establishment of the center, and will finance some of the incremental operating costs, on a
declining scale during project implementation.
- 15 -



Component 4: Building Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management (US $0.69 million)
through preparing and implementing a public awareness strategy and campaign targeting key
stakeholders including the general public, with particular emphasis on communities living in forested
areas; private forest owners; Forest Inspectorate staff; NFA; Government decision makers, and other
influential groups including the churches and NGOs. Implementation of the program will be supported
by an inter-ministerial committee including the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Education, Waters
and Environmental Protection, Culture, Tourism and Public Administration. Campaign strategies will
include: educating mass media; providing public relations guidance to Forest Inspectorate staff;
developing educational and promotional materials for use in schools; organizing local education events;
supporting awareness campaigns at the local level; involvement of environmental NGOs in educational
projects; and support for the PMU to develop their public relations capacity and inform key decision
makers of the status of project implementation. The public awareness campaign will undertake regular
assessments of stakeholder perceptions, which will be used to refne the implementation of the campaign
in line with changing requirements.
Component 5: Project Management and Monitoring (US $1.19 million) will be undertaken by a
Project Management Unit (PMU), that will include a manager, two technical specialists (roads and public
awareness), a procurement officer, a financial management specialist and an assistant. The PMU will
oversee and support implementation of all program activities in accordance with agreed monitorable
indicators.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
With reference to private forest lands and forest based industries, the FDP will support: (a) development
of the institutional capacity within DOF to advise owners of restituted forest land of their obligations,
responsibilities, and opportunities and to ensure that private forest lands continue to be managed
sustainably; (b) strengthening and expansion of a national system of private forest owners associations to
enable new owners to establish cost effective management systems for private forests; and (c)
establishment of a business development and advisory service to assist forest industries to take advantage
of local and international business development and marketing opportunities.
Regarding the management of protection forest, in anticipation of the reduced public revenues which will
result from the restitution process, the FDP will support a review of the NFA's functions and financial
management systems, and the development of NFA to ensure its important role of safeguarding the
public good functions of protection forests are maintained and adequately financed in an efficient and
transparent manner.
To reduce the environmental impacts and costs of wood harvesting in production forests the FDP will
develop policies for constructing and maintaining the forest road network through the incorporation of
Best Practice Guidelines into technical specifications.
The FDP will support implementation of the policy to establish certification of forest management and
chain of custody through development of a national standard for sustainable forest management. The
development of private forest owners associations will also assist the certification process by creating the
facility for group applications for new private forest owners.
FDP tackles the problem of govemance in the sector in a number of important respects. First, the
strengthening of the Forest Inspectorates to improve their capacity to enforce forest legislation is a key
objective of the project. Second, the project seeks vastly to increase the availability of information about
forest harvesting and management by establishing a national forest management information and
- 16-



monitoring system for the Department of Forests, greatly increasing its capacity for planning and
monitoring. Finally, the public awareness component is very much designed to improve local
govemance by making owners more aware of their rights and responsibilities and the importance of
sustainable forest management. Collectively, these actions will seek to engage wider civil society groups
in monitoring performance of the Forest Inspectorates and of the Department of Forests in seeking to
enforce the legal framework. An additional measure to be implemented seeks to develop better
information about the nature and extent of corruption in the forestry sector. A diagnostic study, which
follows on the results of the overall national diagnostic of corruption, is to be carried out once
independent financing and implementing mechanisms are mobilized.
3. Benefits and target population:
Environmental benefits: The project aims to preempt the potential harmful impacts of unsustainable
forest exploitation that has previously occurred in Romania and elsewhere when forest land was
restituted to private owners in the absence of adequate institutional arrangements to ensure sustainable
forest management. By providing assistance and guidance to new forest owners, and through supervision
and monitoring of approved forest management plans, unsustainable harvesting will be significantly
reduced. This will decrease the level of degradation of private forests and hence minimize negative
impacts on biodiversity and damage to vulnerable watersheds.
The rehabilitation and extension of the forest road network will test approaches for reducing negative
environmental impacts associated with long skidding distances and the economic incentive to
over-harvest forests close to existing forest roads. The development of Best Practice Guidelines and the
incorporation of these standards into forest road design and technical specifications will help to ensure
that the environmental impact of forest road construction and rehabilitation is minimized. All roads
sub-projects will be subject to environmental screening, and to a subsequent environmental assessment
(if this is determined to be necessary as a result of the screening process).
Economic benefits: By preventing the environmental damage associated with over-harvesting, the
considerable economic benefits of forest cover will be maintained, including prevention of erosion and
watershed protection. Prevention of over-harvesting will also help to maintain the sustainable productive
capacity of timber and other forest products. Private land owners will benefit from the sustainable
management of their forest assets, in terms of a continuous stream of products, rather than short-term
initial gains followed by either reduced returns or the potential economic liabilities associated with
degraded land. The expanded and improved forest road network will improve the cost efficiency of
forest harvesting, resulting in increased sales revenue for the forest owner and decreased harvesting and
haulage costs for producers. In addition, creation of independent private forest management enterprises
will lead to investments in forest industries, by allowing for the establishment of partnerships with
investors that need a guarantee of the long-terrn raw material supply.
Social benefits: New forest owners will benefit from assistance and supervision to ensure their forests
are managed sustainably. This will help sustain the benefits of forest ownership into the future, and
provide for new opportunities for rural development. The protection of newly restituted forests will
decrease the likelihood of flooding and erosion and resultant damage to agricultural lands and other rural
infrastructure such as roads and bridges. The improved forest road network on state forest lands will
improve access to all forest products, including non-timber forest products such as mushrooms, forest
fruits and wild honey. Access to other important rural resources, such as upland pasture, will also be
improved. Support to private forest owners' associations will benefit individual owners, through reduced
management costs, and improved marketing opportunities, e.g., via group forest certification schemes,
consolidation of sales, and better networking and market information access. Through supporting the
- 17-



combined efforts of the forest owners associations, the Forest Inspectorate, and Forest Business
Information Center, the project will catalyze growth in forest industries, leading to increased employment
and rural development.
Institutional benefits: With respect to MAFF, the project will provide the investments and training
needed to develop the regulatory, supervisory and advisory capacity of the Forest Inspectorate.
Regarding NFA, the project will undertake analysis necessary to guide reorganization to: (a) ensure that
its public functions with respect to management of non-revenue generating protection forests continue to
be adequately accounted and resourced following loss of a significant proportion of production forests
through restitution; and (b) improve its organizational, operational and commercial efficiency and
optimize its contribution to the national economy from sustainable management of State production
forests. It will also provide the NFA with an information systems strategy to support its strategic
development, and will develop an objective and auditable process for determining optimal and fair
reserve pricing for timber sales. Regarding forest owners associations, the project will build the capacity
of national and local forest owners associations. The project will also establish the Forest Sector
Business Infornation Center, which will provide services to catalyze the development of forest
industries.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a period of 6 years.
A Project Oversight Committee (POC) consisting of experts from the DOF, MAFF, Ministry of Public
Finance (MPF), and NFA, as well as representatives of civil society will be established by MAFF. The
committee will be responsible for providing project oversight advice and assistance in resolving issues
associated with project implementation. The Secretary of State for Forests in MAFF will be the chairman
of the committee. With respect to implementation of the public awareness carnpaign, inter-sectoral
cooperation will be promoted through the establishment of a consultative group, comprised of
representatives at the technical level from MAFF, and the Ministries of Industry and Commerce;
Education; Waters and Environmental Protection; Tourism; Culture; and Public Administration; and
representatives of civil society.
Project Management at the National Level: MAFF will have overall responsibility for the project,
including procurement, disbursement, maintenance of project accounts and coordination of
implementation. Implementation of the project will be managed on behalf of MAFF by a Project
Management Unit (PMU), which will consist of a project coordinator, a procurement specialist, a
financial manager, two technical specialists (one for public communications and one with expertise in
forest road construction and maintenance) and an assistant. The staff of the PMU will be appointed on a
contractual basis at market competitive rates.
Project Management Sharing Between the FDP and the Biodiversitv Conservation Management Project
(BCMP): Preparation of the FDP was supervised and coordinated by the World Bank/GEF financed
BCMP Project Management Unit (PMU), which includes a project coordinator, fmancial manager, and a
procurement specialist who have been effectively implementing the BCMP since October 1999. In order
to economize on project costs, build on the knowledge base developed during preparation and
implementation of the BCMP and preparation of the FDP, and ensure staff continuity and linkages
between the BCMP and the FDP, the existing PMU will continue to manage implementation of the FDP
and will be financed by the BCMP until its closing date. The two new technical specialist members of
the PMIJ (roads and communications) will be financed by the FDP from project effectiveness, and all
PMU staff will be financed by the FDP after the closing date of the BCMP.
- 18 -



Proiect Implementation at the National Level: Through the PMU, the Department of Forests within
MAFF, and the NFA, will be responsible for carrying out project activities at the national level.
Project Implementation at the County Level: Through the PMU, the Department of Forests and the
National Forest Administration will be responsible for carrying out all project activities at the County
level.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arraneements: Monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be
undertaken by the PMU, and will be subject to periodic review by the Bank. The PMU will establish
project monitoring and evaluation procedures acceptable to the Bank, and will furnish the Bank with
biannual project progress reports, together with work programs inclusive of detailed monitoring
indicators for the following six month period. A mid-term evaluation, which will focus on the
effectiveness, impact and appropriateness of project activities with respect to the nature and pace of
forest land restitution, will be undertaken during the third year (June 30, 2005), and restructuring of
project activities would follow if appropriate. Lessons learned from implementation of project activities
will be recorded in a report prepared by the borrower with the assistance of the PMU.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken in December 2001
and revised in October 2002 to determine whether the financial management arrangements within the
PMU are acceptable to the Bank. It is concluded that the systems, procedures and staff within the Project
Management Unit (PMU) satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
Financial Reporting. The PMU will ensure the preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic
progress reports to the relevant government institutions, including the World Bank, to reflect: (i) sources
and uses of funds, by component and activity; (ii) project progress; and (iii) procurement activities. In
this context, the PMU will prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), which would be
submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The first quarterly FMRs will be
submitted at the end of the first quarter after project Effectiveness.
Audit Arrangements. The PM[ would be responsible for ensuring that the Project financial statement,
Special Accounts (SA), and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. The PMU will maintain
responsibility for the management of project funds and the Special Account. They will monitor and keep
track of the use of funds. The audit will cover all funds related to the project, including counterpart
funds, for all project components. The PMU will carry out the annual audit in accordance with the
Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the Bank. The audited financial
statements, the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year will be sent to the Bank within six
months of the end of the fiscal year. The TOR for the audit has been agreed with the PMU.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Loan will be made based on traditional disbursement methods
(i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
and full documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account). The proceeds of the World Bank
Loan will be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project
implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain and operate a special account under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
- 19 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project concept design was undertaken through an inclusive participatory process in Romania. During the
preparation of the Forest Sector Note, as well as of the National Forest Policy and Strategy,
representatives of the major stakeholders groups in the forestry sector participated in a series of
facilitated workshops. This process built consensus among stakeholders and identified the main issues
facing the sector, their underlying causes, the desired changes and the necessary interventions to achieve
the objectives identified. Following on from this process, a vision statement, strategy and rationale for
reform and development of the forestry sector was developed by senior policy and technical experts
within the former MWFEP and representatives of the major forestry sector stakeholder groups in the
context of facilitated workshops. The project addresses the main issues identified through stakeholder
consultation by supporting actions needed to implement the medium term strategy for reform and
development of the forestry sector.
Project alternatives considered:
Development of Forest Road Network. Project identification considered three alternatives: (a) no forest
road construction and rehabilitation; (b) large scale forest road construction and rehabilitation based on
FAO recommendation to upgrade 1,000 km of existing road and the construct 1,500 km of new roads;
and (c) a pilot forest road component aimed at identifying best practice and improving efficiency in
construction. The first alternative was rejected as analysis undertaken during project preparation
confirmed the need for increased forest road density; low road density leads to high extraction costs and
increased environmental damage. The second alternative was rejected as there is a need to develop best
practice and establish environmental assessment procedures before undertaking such a program. The
third alternative has been adopted by the FDP.
Investment Finance for Wood Industries. The inability of small and medium sized wood harvesting
and processing firms to raise loans for capital investment was identified through stakeholder consultation
as a significant blockage to future development of forest industries. Analysis undertaken during project
preparation, however, indicated that the perceived financing blockage results largely from lack of
awareness on the part of forest industries of opportunities afforded by existing credit and investment
partnership schemes. Consequently, rather than provide targeted credit for forest industries, the project
will establish the Forest Sector Business Information Center in order to inform and assist forest industries
about how to take advantage of existing sources of finance, including credit, tax incentives and joint
venture options, as well as new technologies and marketing opportunities.
'Without Project' Scenario. Regardless of the Govermnent's commitment to sustainable forest
management, without the establishment of an effective supervisory and regulatory capacity in advance of
planned restitution of one third of Romania's forests, unsustainable exploitation similar to that which
occurred during the 1992 restitution is likely to result in serious and deleterious economic, social and
environmental impacts. Govenmment would be unable to commit sufficient budget to establish a
functioning Forest Inspectorate; existing Govemment and NGO groups concemed with private forests
would remain weak, ineffective, uncoordinated, and isolated, and the private sector could miss significant
opportunities to benefit from Romania's comparative advantage to develop competitive and lucrative
forest industries.
-20 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (iSR) Ratings
l__ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ __   ____(Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Environment / Biodiversity       Biodiversity Conservation       S             S
(GEF)
Rural Development                Rural Finance                   U             U
Rural Development                Rural Development                S            S
Environment                      Agriculture Pollution Control    S            S
(GEF)
Transportation                   Second Roads                     S            S
Social Development               Social Development Fund          S            S
Forestry (ESW)                   Romania Forestry Sector Note
(completed)
WWF/World Bank Alliance for      Sector analysis in:
Sustainable Forest management    (i) opportunities for forest
certification;
(ii) regional review of the
experience of forest land
restitution, and
(iii) feasibility of a debt swap
and funding mechanisms for
environmental/forest
m management.
Other development agencies
World Wildlife Fund              Facilitation in Trade of
Certified Forest Products
(ongoing)
FAO                              Forestry Strategic Development
and Identification of
Investment Priorities
(completed)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience from forestry programs in Europe and around the world suggest that:-
* The early involvement of key stakeholders from across the forestry sector in project concept design
and preparation is essential in order to ensure ownership and build lasting commitment to successful
project implementation., e.g., reform of the state forest sector in Latvia, which separated ownership,
supervisory and regulatory functions following a consultative process that developed agreed policy
and strategy and resulted in ownership and political will to implement the reforns.
- 21 -



*   Forest sector projects that address a small number of clearly identified, understandable priority
objectives have a greater probability of success than do projects attempting to address all sector
issues, e.g., the EU Polish Forestry Development Progran that addressed six clear issues and was
implemented within budget and on time.
*   Establishing the institutional capacity for supervision and regulation of new private forest owners is,
by itself, insufficient to ensure sustainable forest management. Regulatory capacity needs to be
complemented with a targeted awareness raising, and educational programs that inform new owners
and associated communities of the benefits of sustainable forest management and the means to
achieve them. A good example of this is Hungary, where the presence of a Forest Inspectorate prior
to restitution did not preempt over-harvesting in areas where new owners were unaware of their
responsibilities and long term opportunities.
* The rationale, benefits and objectives of the project can be made known to all stakeholders, if not
through active participation in project preparation, then through effective public awareness programs.
*   Where multiple options for addressing problems exist, project implementation should assist clients
and beneficiaries to select the most appropriate solutions for local conditions, thereby building the
awareness, capacity and skills necessary for success.
World Bank experience with the Romania country portfolio indicates that:
*   Key stakeholder awareness and support of all proposed policy and institutional reforms should be
established early in project implementation in order to preempt delays that could result from special
interest group lobbies. Project preparation included multistakeholder, participatory preparation of a
new National Forest Policy and Strategy.
*   Financial institutions have been reluctant to assume the risk of lending to forest enterprises due to
limited financial history. The Bank is working with GOR to support financial sector reform, and the
FDP will help forest sector clients to develop financially attractive business plans, become more
competitive, and reduce financial risk ratings.
*   There is a need to hire adequately qualified and motivated professional project management and
specialist staff at market rates of pay in order to ensure effective project implementation.
The proposed program will incorporate these experiences and build on them, specifically by: (a) ensuring
that the inclusive and participatory approach adopted during sector work and project preparation is
continued throughout project implementation; (b) communicating the purpose and progress of project
activities to stakeholders across the forest sector; (c) building national and local capacity for sustainable
management of the forest resource; and (d) involving the existing, experienced, BCMP Project
Management Unit in managing FDP implementation. These steps will enable Government to overcome
some of the implementation challenges which have been problematic for other operations, such as the
Rural Finance Project.
-22 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Romania has a long and distinguished history of excellent forest management and a strong cultural
association with its forests. In the last few years, the Government has demonstrated a high level of
commitment and concern regarding the forestry sector through its active participation in forestry sector
work and, in particular, the participatory process used to identify the needs, underlying causes and
necessary actions to achieve reforms across the sector. The promulgation of The Forest Code (Law No.
26/24 April 1996) which separates the ownership and supervisory/regulatory functions of the state in
relation to forest resources has paved the way for the reform of the NFA. The criteria for restoration of
forest lands in the Law 1/2000 is in line with the recommendations from sector work undertaken in
1998/9. Government approved appointment of approximately 300 staff to the new Forest Inspectorate
and the Ministry of Public Finance has indicated its intention to finance salaries and operating costs.
Regarding Forest Certification, around 32,000 ha of forest has been certified by Woodmark (which has
been accredited by the Forest Stewardship Council to certify forest management which complies with the
FSC Principles and Criteria for Forest Stewardship). Government has targeted over a million ha for
eventual certification. A commitment to compliance with FSC standards is an indication of
Government's interest in seeing that production forests are sustainably and transparently managed. FSC
standards also include moves to account for the chain-of-custody, which should also begin to address
some of the problems of the marketing of illegally harvested timber.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank has been working since 1993 with the former MWFEP and the current MAFF and
MWEP to characterize the issues that must be addressed in reforming and developing the forestry sector
and conserving forest biological resources. As a result of this collaboration, the Bank has developed a
strong understanding of the needs of Romanian forestry sector stakeholders. Sector-specific experience
includes preparation of the 1993 FAO/World Bank Forestry Sector Review. The Bank subsequently
undertook further analysis to update the 1993 Forestry Sector Review and prepared the 1999 Forestry
Sector Note, which assesses the status, values and the need for reform of the Romnanian forestry sector.
Concurrently, the Bank has been working with Romanian forestry sector stakeholders to prepare and
implement the Biodiversity Conservation Management Project, which is building new skills in
participatory protected area and conservation planning that the NFA will need in order to address aspects
of its future role of safeguarding the public interest in both State and private forest lands. Under the
World Bank/WWF Alliance for sustainable forest management the Bank, has also assisted Romania to
assess the potential for establishing independent certification of forest management and the products
derived from its sustainably managed forests, and has undertaken a regional review of the experience of
forest land restitution and the new institutional arrangements needed to maintain sustainable forest
management following land restitution. In addition, the Bank is currently working with forestry sector
counterparts to prepare or supervise forestry projects or projects with a major focus on forestry in other
countries in the region, including: Albania, Armenia, Azerbaij an, Belarus, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Croatia,
Georgia, Russia, and Turkey.
Successful reform and development of the Romanian forestry sector, while maintaining sustainable
conservation and management of these valuable State and private forest assets, will be reliant on
establishing effective public/private sector partnerships, and facilitating the constructive participation of
the donor, NGO and academic communities. In view of its extensive experience in forestry and rural
development in Romania and the region, the Bank is uniquely positioned to facilitate the holistic
approach necessary for reform and development of the Romanian forestry sector.
- 23 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = 40 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
(i)    Quantifiable economic benefits of the project against total project costs: Not all project
component benefits are quantifiable in economic terms (e.g., establishment of the ForSBIC, and analysis
to support financial and institutional reform of NFA). However, based on analysis of the likely economic
benefits of components 1, 2. (b). and 4 (maintaining sustainable management of private forest lands,
improving the forest road network, and public awareness), quantifiable benefits of the project are
associated with maintaining high levels of forest production on restituted forest lands, and reducing the
costs of harvesting and management in state forest lands. The economic rate of return is estimated to be
around 40%.
(ii)   Quantifiable economic benefits of components 1 and 4: For the institutional support to the
Forest Inspectorate, and the private forest owners associations and the public awareness components,
economic analysis compared with and without project scenarios. The without project scenario is based on
the experience of restitution that occurred in 1991, and a 1999 inventory undertaken by the Forest
Management and Research Institute (ICAS), which systematically compared a number of different forest
parameters in a broad sample of formerly restituted forest lands with pre-restitution data for the same
areas. The inventory indicated that, after seven years, 3.6% of restituted forest land had no forest cover,
while the remainder had a canopy closure of 89% of the pre-restituted forests. This had the effect of
decreasing the timber producing capacity by an estimated 1.19 m'/ha/year. In the early years it is likely
that the reduction in productivity would have been greater as many forests were initially clear cut but
have since regenerated naturally. Economic analysis assumes that, in the absence of the project, the loss
in forest productivity in newly restituted forest land would mirror the levels experienced following the
1991 restitution, but that losses would be only 25% of this rate for land returned to communal,
municipal/institutional owners where management is likely to be better.
The project will preempt losses in forest productivity through support to new forest owners from an
expanded and strengthened network of forest owners associations, supervision and control of
management planning and forest operations, and the public awareness campaign. Economic analysis
assumes that the project will avert loss of production by at least 50% in the first two years and that this
reduction of potential loss will increase evenly with time to 80% by year six and 95% by year 8. This
assumption is reasonable given that project support is pragmatic and in line with the requirements of the
sector and that the assumed potential reduction in loss is small per unit area. For the likely restitution
scenario (with 85% of the 2.55 million ha claimed being returned within eight years) the EIRR is 77%,
which equates with a NPV of US $70 million. In other countries, when appropriate levels of support for
private sector managed forests is provided, private forests are frequently more productive, in terms of the
value of sustainable timber production, than are state managed forests. Hence the economic benefits may
be larger than presumed in this analysis.
(iii) Ouantifiable economic benefits of component 2: For the forest roads component, a cost-benefit
analysis was undertaken comparing with and without project scenarios for individual road sub-projects
tentatively identified during project preparation. By repairing existing roads and building new roads, the
unit costs of harvesting significantly reduced. The overall EIRR for all forest road sub-projects initially
identified during project preparation is 24%. This is only indicative, as the actual road sub-projects have
yet to be confirmed, and will likely change during implementation.
-24 -



(iv)   Non guantifiable benefits: While it is not possible to quantify the benefits of supporting strategic
reform of NFA operations, economic benefits would include reduced costs and increased efficiency with
an increased return to the state for the sale of its timber resources, as well as the relatively much larger
non-pecuniary economic benefits associated with maintaining the environmental benefits and services of
State forests. Benefits associated with operation of the Forest Sector Business Information Center would
be derived by facilitating access to grants, joint venture investment opportunities, an expanded and more
competitive forest industry sector employing more people, and a larger volume of forest products,
particularly value-added products, being exported to intemational markets. Project support for local
forest owners associations will develop capacity to access EU SAPARD grant funding for expansion and
development of the national network of private forest owners associations.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 4.5 million; FRR = 34 % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact is the effect of the project over time on the States' tax revenue and public expenditure.
Fiscal benefits are taken as tax revenues derived from the economic benefits of the project, including
higher levels of forest productivity, and more efficient and competitive forest based industries including
harvesting, primary and secondary processing and marketing of forest products, and tourism. The total
fiscal benefit (in terms of maintained or increased tax) of all quantifiable project impacts is estimated at
just over US$6 million per year in perpetuity for the likely restitution scenario and US$5.4 million per
annum for the conservative, slower paced, scenario. The increased Government annual recurrent costs
are estimated at US$637,000.
To calculate the fiscal impact, it is assumed that income tax will be paid by all the new ownership
categories but at different rates. For some owners, the rate will be higher than the marginal rate of 23%.
However the assumption used in this calculation is that there will only be 50% capture of taxation from
individual owners (due to low incomes, illegal harvesting, tax evasion and under reporting) and 75% for
other ownership categories of private forest owner. These are conservative estimates (based on informed
opinion of the current situation) and are considered to reflect the minimum tax revenue. The level of
capture will increase with the effectiveness of the Inspectorate.
Fiscal analysis also assumes that VAT will be paid on only 75% of log production. Even if individual
producers and communities avoid paying income tax and/or are not registered to pay VAT, the VAT on
the raw material costs will be charged when the processor sells the product. However, since VAT is
refunded on exports, VAT revenue has been reduced by the proportion of timber products (just over
50%) that is exported. Additionally there will be increased tax revenue from the benefit derived from
upgrading the forest road network. NFA will pay tax on the higher sales prices and will also charge VAT.
Again, allowance has been made for the proportion exported. Harvesting companies will also pay tax on
their increased profits.
The fiscal analysis has only included the estimated tax yield from the quantifiable benefits of the project.
The non-quantifiable economic benefits will also add fiscal value (e.g. increased efficiency of NFA,
increased return to the state for timber sales after the timber pricing study has been completed, benefits
from increased investment opportunities in the wood processing sector etc.). Additionally fiscal benefits
not included in this analysis include the decrease in illegal felling that will result from the establishment
of the Inspectorate, and the benefits of Public Awareness campaign.
-25 -



Financial analysis shows the actual effect of the loan on the borrower, including the estimated repayment
schedule. Benefits of the loan to the borrower will derive from maintenance or increase of taxation
revenues from the forest sector due to the project interventions aimed at maintaining or improving
management of private and state forest resources, and supporting development of competitive
forest-based industries. The financial costs of the project are the costs of Government investments, the
costs of the loan plus the cost of increased Government recurrent expenditure during and after the project
has been completed. Using these costs, analysis developed a financial cash flow, based on the costs of
the loan and revenues from taxation. This financial cash flow does not include the project's probably
considerable non-quantifiable benefits. The financial analysis is based on conservative assumptions
about the speed and the impact of restitution, and indicates that from the Government's standpoint, the
project is robust, with a Financial Internal Rate of Return (FRR) of 16% and a Net Present Value of just
over US $1 million. The more likely restitution scenario has an FRR of 34% and an NPV of US $4.5
million.
3. Technical:
Forest Roads: An analysis of technical design norms and procedures for construction and rehabilitation
of forest roads was carried out during preparation and concluded that these were weak with respect to
mitigating their potential environmental impact, e.g. siting of roads, and with respect to prevailing
construction methods. The project, through the development and implementation of Best Practice
Guidelines, addresses both of these concerns. Funding has been assigned to training for NFA staff in the
implementation of the guidelines for new roads constructed under the project. Road costs were obtained
from detailed feasibility designs for each road works and updated where necessary. The road works to be
funded are compatible with current harvesting and transport technology.
Department of Forests: The institutional analysis identified the technical skills requirement, e.g.
cadastre, mensuration, and management skills for the DoF to fulfill their mandate, especially in relation
to new private forest owners. The project's Human Resources Development element will provide training
in the skills required and also build institutional training capacity in DoF to sustain skills enhancement
following project completion.
Forest management information and monitoring system: The technical analysis for a national forest
management and information system (FMIMS) identified (a) hardware, (b) software, (c) applications and
(d) data needs. The design solution addresses the lack of institutional capacity in DOF to implement the
FMIMS. A seamless MIS/GIS solution, while optimal, was not possible due to the spatial data
requirement, though this will be a medium-term goal. The FMIMS will be robust and will support the full
integration of additional spatial data when this becomes available, through upgrading of software and
hardware and through other related investments.
Private Forest Owners: Private Forest owners and forest owner associations lack the technical skills to
manage their forests sustainably. The project will use national and local associations of private forest
owners as the conduit to improve skills capacity through funding for the developmnent and delivery of
extension services and support to access SAPARD funding for the provision of forest management
expertise. In addition, the Human Resources Development program in the DOF will provide extension
skills to engage the new owners at individual and association level.
National Forest Administration: The capacity of the NFA to participate in and implement the findings
of the strategic review is addressed through the provision of funding for: (a) study tours; (b) training for
senior management; (c) improvement in information systems; and (d) technical assistance.
-26 -



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agencies for the Forest Development Project are:
*   The Department of Forests within the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, which will be
responsible, through a Project Management Unit, for overall supervision of project
implementation;
*   The Forest Inspectorate within the Department of Forests, Ministry of Agriculture Food and
Forests, will be responsible for implementation of component one, four and part of component
two; and
*   The National Forest Administration will assist MAFF in the implementation of component two.
4.2 Project management:
With the addition of two new staff who will bring experience in public communications and forest roads,
the existing Project Management Unit (PMU) of the Biodiversity Conservation Project BCMP will
manage implementation of the Forestry Development Project. By effectively managing implementation
of the BCMP, the PMU has demonstrated its competence in managing World Bank projects.
Furthermore, the PMU has been responsible for supervising preparation of the Forest Development
Project from identification through appraisal. Entrusting management of the Forest Development Project
to the PMU will economize on project management costs, build on the knowledge base developed during
preparation and implementation of the BCMP and preparation of the FDP, and ensure staff continuity
and linkages between the BCMP and the FDP.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Project Preparation Team established at MAFF would continue as the Project Management Unit
(PMU). The PMU would be responsible for project implementation at the national level, with the NFA
regional offices having responsibility at the local level. The PMU will be responsible for procurement of
goods and consulting services at the national level (training and TA contracts), and will help the NFA in
this task at the local level. The PMU will include a qualified and experienced Procurement Specialist.
Full details of procurement can be found in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania will be carried out during
FY03. Based on country experience, there are two main generic risks. The first is liquidity problems
associated with banks. The banking system in Romania is still perceived as potentially sensitive to
liquidity problems. Despite a certain degree of restructuring and "cleaning" of the banking sector, the
systemic risk is still perceived as significant. The second risk is fraud and corruption. Concems have
been raised with regard to fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds in the region. Perceived corruption as
reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. To mitigate these concems, the following
actions will be taken: (i) The Special Account for this project will be opened in the same bank that holds
the SA for the ongoing BCMP. No problems were encountered in the operation of the SA under BCMP;
and (ii) The PMU established for the implementation of BCMP, will also implement this project. The
PMU is well-versed in Bank procedures and a financial management system acceptable to the Bank is in
place. The auditors for the BCMP issued a clean opinion on the project accounts for 2001, and the
borrower is in compliance with all audit covenants. The BCMP financial management system has been
modified to accommodate the FDP accounts. During Negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Borrower to retain an audit firm acceptable to the Bank. The TOR for the audit has been agreed with the
PMU.
-27 -



5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Romania's forests provide many important functions, including biodiversity habitat, watershed
protection, recreation and tourism and the sustainable production of timber and non-timber forest
products. A major goal of the project is to ensure that these goods and services are maintained after
forested areas are restituted and, subsequently, managed by new private forest owners. A second
objective of the project is to test out approaches for reducing environmental impacts associated with
harvesting, for example, from extensive soil erosion which accompanies the use of skidding trails, by
improving the forest road network. Previous experience in Romania and elsewhere has shown that
potential environmental impacts associated with restitution of forest lands can be significant. Because
forest road construction and rehabilitation has the potential for either negative or beneficial
environmental impact, the project was assigned as Environmental Category "A" requiring full public
disclosure and consultation. Consequently, in accordance with World Bank policy for Environmental
Category A projects, an independent Environmental Assessment (EA) was completed prior to Appraisal,
and its findings were used to refine project design. Public comment on the draft TORs for
Environmental Assessment was solicited through two mechanisms: four public meetings were convened
(3 regional meetings and one at the national level) to review the TORs. Notice of these meetings was
published in two national newspapers ("Adevarul" and "Romania Libera"), and in the forestry magazine
("Padurea Noastra"), and; written comments were solicited by announcement in two national newspapers
("Adevarul" and " Romania Libera"), the forestry magazine ("Padurea Noastra") and on the Ministry's
website. The consultations on the draft TORs were held in Piatra Neamt, Targoviste, and Arad on
October 2, 3, and 4, 2000 respectively, and in Bucharest on October 6, 2000.
Two additional consultations on the draft and final Environmental Assessment were carried out. The
first one was in compliance with World Bank OP 4.01 which requires consultations on the draft EA, and
the second was carried out before Appraisal, in compliance with Bank disclosure requirements also
outlined in World Bank OP 4.01. Participation in these consultations was solicited by invitation and by
public notice, published in the national newspaper ("Adevarul"), and on the MAFF website. The first
consultation was held in Poiana Brasov from July 26 to 28, 2001, and the second consultation was held in
Brasov on September 22, 2001.
The draft and final Environmental Assessment was made available in Romania via MAFF, the PMU, and
local NFA offices in counties likely to be affected by roads rehabilitation and construction (identified
from the initial list of priority roads.) Notice of the availability of the draft and final Environmental
Assessments was published in the main national newspaper ("Adevarul"), and on the project's website (
www.forestier.ro). The Environmental Assessment was posted, in Romanian, on the project's website, as
well as through the World Bank Infoshop (where it was posted, in English, on October 31, 2001). The
World Bank Project Information Document was originally posted in December 1999, and was updated in
March 2002. From December 2001 Government released the draft Project Appraisal Document to
institutions or individuals requesting it, and subsequently posted it on the project website in January 2002
where it remains freely available in English and with a summary in Romanian. A Romanian translation
of the full EA was also made available via MAFF and the PMU and the project's website.
Significant issues identified in the EA included the need for the project to: (a) ensure continued
sustainable forest management practice on restituted forest land through supervision and support by
Government and education of new forest owners, and (b) reduce the environmental impacts of forest
harvesting (primarily, erosion associated with the use of long skidding trails) by improving forest road
access, and (c) mitigate potential environmental impacts of forest road construction and maintenance
- 28 -



through establishing environmental screening, assessment, and mitigation procedures and measures.
The EA recommended that various steps should be incorporated into the project to strengthen the role of
the Forest Inspectorates through training and capacity building; to improve the overall framework for
regulation and enforcement; to assist the private sector in developing long term sustainable management
of restituted forests; to develop Best Practice Guidelines for forest roads construction and rehabilitation;
to incorporate screening, impact assessment, and mitigation in the identification of sub-projects to be
financed by the project; and to implement this approach on a pilot scale. These approaches were all
consistent with the design of the project. The results from the Environmental Assessment and key
mitigating actions are summarized in Annex 12 to this PAD.
In response to subsequent correspondence with President Wolfensohn from CEE Bankwatch in February
2002, it was agreed that a further NGO consultation should be convened to provide an opportunity for
further discussion about the project and concerns which had been raised. CEE Bankwatch provided a list
of NGOs which should be invited. Correspondence to President Wolfensohn from a group of Romanian
NGOs followed, and these NGOs were also invited by MAFF to the consultation. The consultation was
held on March 21, 2002 in Brasov. Participants at the consultation recommended that the EA could be
improved and that additional information which had been generated as a result of the Appraisal process
should be made available, and it was agreed that the EA would be updated in a manner which
incorporated this informnation. The EA Update was made publicly available on September 20, 2002. The
EA Update confirmed the original Environmental Assessment's findings and its recommendations, and
noted that it was unlikely there would be any positive environmental impacts of the 'without' project
scenario, and reflected the view that project activities would be quite important for mitigating some of
the negative environmental impacts of the planned restitution program. The EA Update made no new
recommendations for mitigating potential negative environmental impacts of the project, however, it did
note that wider sectoral concerns with respect to governance and corruption in the forestry sector should
be addressed by a diagnostic study, which is to be independently financed and implemented. The results
from the govemance study will be used to provide guidance for action in the sector, within the wider
framework of Govemment's National Anticorruption strategy. On October 29, 2002, Mr. Wolfensohn
received correspondence from a group of 15 Romanian civil society organizations expressing strong
support for the FDP, endorsing the priorities identified for FDP financing, and urging the Bank to move
forward with approval of the proposed loan.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Recommendations arising from the EA process and included in the EMP were either already addressed in
the project design or were, subsequently, incorporated in final design of the project. These included
expanding and targeting environmental training programs for the Forest Inspectorate, NFA, and ForsBIC,
and ensuring that ForsBIC will provide information and advice on clean forest industry production
techniques and the availability of environmentally sustainable technologies. With respect to the roads
program, the design of proposed sub-projects will be guided by standards described in a Best Practice
Manual, which will be prepared during the first project year, and this will be followed by a new and more
stringent environmental, social and economic screening process which will be undertaken of all proposed
forest roads construction and rehabilitation sub-projects. The screening process will identify all new road
or rehabilitation projects that should be subject to more in depth environmental assessment. The EA also
elaborated the Terms of Reference for a forest roads expert to be assigned to work within the Project
Management Unit.
The EMP is detailed, wide ranging and is adequate for mitigating potential negative environmental
impacts resulting from the FDP.
- 29 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: October 12, 2001
The draft EA was received by the Bank and made publicly available in July 2001. The final EA was
received and made publicly available in September 2001. The EA Update was received and made
publicly available in September 2002. The EA and the EA Update were both translated into Romanian
and made available in Romania via the project website. The EA and the EA Update are also available via
the Bank's Infoshop.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Key forest sector stakeholders and interested parties were consulted on the content of the EA terms of
reference in October 2000 at public hearings at Piatra Neamt, Arad, and Bucharest. Project preparation
consultants undertook initial environmental analysis in consultation with Government stakeholders and
NGOs in March 2001, and with local communities at Zarnesti, and Poina Marului in April 2001. The EA
consultant team undertook extensive liaison and infornal consultation with many stakeholder groups
while preparing the draft EA and pilot road EAs at Valea Mare-Crizbav, Brasov County, Platinoasa and
Prahova County in May 2001, Public consultations on the draft EA took place in Poina Brasov in July
2001. The final EA was discussed during consultations in Brasov in September 2001, and subsequently
in another consultation in March 2002.
A broad range of sector stakeholders participated in the EA consultation process. These included Central
Government, local Government, private companies, NGOs, the academic and environmental
communities, media including television, newspapers and journals, national forest owners'associations,
and local community representatives. The consultation entailed the use of workshops that encouraged
comment and debate.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Indicators established during project preparation and included in Annex 1 will be used to monitor
beneficial environmental impacts resulting from implementation of the project and EMP. Relevant
impact indicators include: (a) no significant degradation of forest ecosystems - to be monitored through
periodic review of the national forest inventory, the Forest Management Information and Monitoring
System, and the Biodiversity Information Monitoring System; (b) maintenance of sustainable forest
management practice, which will be monitored, regulated and supported by the Forest Inspectorate and
its extension and advisory services and recorded in project progress and supervision reports and MAFF
annual reports; (c) reduction of timber extraction (skidding) distances, which will be monitored through
project progress and supervision reports; (d) establishment and application of environmental standards
for forest road construction and rehabilitation, which will be monitored by the Forest Inspectorate and,
(e) improved public awareness and support for sustainable forest management, to be measured by means
of attitude surveys.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Project preparation undertook institutional and social assessment, which identified key stakeholder
groups, together with their interests in forestry sector issues that will be addressed by the project. These
- 30 -



are summarized in Annex 11. Prior to project implementation, this assessment will be complimented by
further institutional and social analysis of forest communities that are most likely to be impacted by the
restitution program and, hence, beneficiaries of project interventions. Detailed social assessment of
stakeholders directly impacted by the restitution program will be conducted during project
implementation, as recipients of forest land are identified. Data from communities that are not recipients
of forest land will also be included in the assessment in order to provide control comparisons. Detailed
social assessment will be undertaken at the initiation of project implementation, in order to establish a
baseline for subsequent monitoring of project impacts at the community and household levels. Social
impact monitoring will be undertaken both continuously and periodically throughout project
implementation. Continuous monitoring will focus on the status of business and socioeconomic patterns
at the community level and will be based on data collected systematically from local administrations.
This will be augmented by periodic social assessment undertaken at the household level through
structured surveys.
The social implications of the maintenance and sustainable management of forest resources are
significant and large. Sustainably and responsibly managed forests provide social, environmental, and
economic benefits to the population at large, but particularly to rural dwellers, including opportunities for
employment, recreation and tourism, as well as revenues for the national budget. Stakeholders that stand
to benefit from sustainable forest management practices include forest managing organizations; timber,
wood processing and tourism industries, hunting associations, harvesters and processors of non-timber
forest products, and a broad range of groups with diverse interests in forest resources. These include
private forest owners, rural populations living in forested areas, and the Romanian population at large.
Project design recognizes the interests of the different stakeholder groups, and project interventions will
enhance social benefits associated with forest management while, at the same time, mitigating possible
dislocation and friction associated with the change in forest ownership and management practices.
On the positive side, sustainable and professional management of restituted forests will incrementally
add to the incomes of individual and collective forest owners through sales of timber and non-timber
resources, lease of forest use rights, and from processing timber from private forest lands. An expected
secondary effect will be the increase in incomes generated by the growth of related industries, such as
wood processing, tourism, and associated service providing businesses. Growth in these industries will
be triggered by improved clarity of property rights, more efficient management of both production and
protection forests, and by improved access to information on sources of investment capital and marketing
opportunities for SMEs. Benefits to the broader public, particularly rural populations living in areas
adjacent to forests and also to urban residents associated with wood processing industries, will be derived
from growth in wood processing and other forest based industries and will increase employment
opportunities for both skilled and unskilled workers. Employment in road rehabilitation and construction
financed by the project will provide direct benefits in the short term, with longer term benefits coming
from employment in road maintenance. Less easily quantifiable but important public good benefits of
the project will be derived from strengthening and expanding the forest protected area network and
developing the institutional arrangements and capacity for the conservation of Romania's forest
biodiversity for current and future generations.
On the negative side, the restitution process may lead to friction between new forest owners and other
segments of the rural population (often their neighbors) who have come to rely on non-timber forest
products as nutritional and income supplements and who may find access to forest products constrained
by more restrictive management practices adopted by the new private forest owners. Another potential
short-term negative social impact of forest restitution could be dislocation associated with laying off
NFA staff who are currently responsible for administering forests that will be restituted (this could affect
as many as 10,000 employees). Moves to mitigate this impact by preserving NFA's monopoly in forest
- 31 -



management on private as well as State lands, should be avoided as this could be perceived as an
imposition of top-down management solutions and could further undermine the developing relationship
between NFA and local communities as well as NFA's ability to carry out both public and private
functions.
The project aims to mitigate anticipated negative social impacts of restitution through strengthening and
expanding state and community based institutions involved in forest management and regulation,
including the Forest Inspectorate, and national and local private forest owners associations.
National-level associations of private forest owners will help develop a network of associations
throughout the country that will help new land owners make sustainable management decisions
concerning access of local populations to forest products (e.g., setting realistic user fees for gathering and
firewood and other non-timber forest products, etc.) so that both friction and further disenfianchisement
of the rural poor is minimized. To decrease possible dislocation associated with redundancies in NFA
the project will support development of a strategic plan for reform of NFA that could include re-training
NFA staff in marketable skills. The project will also design and implement a public awareness campaign
to inform key stakeholders and the general public about the benefits and protection functions of forest
cover, the need to manage forests sustainably, the key role of NFA in State forest management, as well as
of the needs and benefits of involving professional forestry expertise in managing private as well as State
forest land, thereby supporting development of a private sector market for retrenched NFA staff.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholder participation in project preparation: In order to assess stakeholder opinion concerning the
major issues facing the forestry sector and options available to address them, project identification
included three regional and one national level consultation workshops involving a broad range of
stakeholders. Subsequently, the World Bank worked with senior forest sector policy makers, in a
facilitated workshop setting, to assist them to develop a vision for the future of the forestry sector,
together with a three phase strategy to achieve this goal. The three phases included immediate, medium
and long terms needs. The Bank subsequently worked with a team of forestry sector technical specialists
and interest groups, including Government, NFA, private forest owners associations, NGOs and the
academic community, to assist them to develop the rationale for actions needed to implement the medium
term needs. The priority immnediate need identified in the three phase strategy was preparation of a
comprehensive National Forestry Sector Policy and Strategy (NFPS). This was subsequently prepared in
a participatory manner, over a ten month period commencing early 2000, with the involvement of several
hundred representatives of different forestry sector stakeholder groups. Project design has, subsequently,
been guided by the NFPS, and by the rationale for actions needed to implement the medium term needs
that were identified in the three phase strategy. Additionally, project design was subject to category A
environmental assessment entailing full public disclosure and consultation. Details of public participation
and consultation undertaken as part of the environmental assessment are summarized in the executive
summary of the environmental assessment report, which can be accessed in the World Bank's InfoShop.
Stakeholder participation in project implementation: Increased stakeholder participation in project
implementation and forest management will be supported by the project by providing assistance to
national and local associations of private forest owners, the Forest Business Inforrnation Center, training
programs for NFA staff and the public awareness program:
* National associations of private forest owners will represent and facilitate private forest owners'
involvement in lobbying for forest policy related interests at the national level. These will also
facilitate involvement of new forest owners by facilitating establishment of local forest owners
associations. In addition, national institutions can provide feedback on the effects and effectiveness
of interactions between forest owners, Forest Inspectorate and NFA at the national and sub-national
- 32 -



levels, thereby enabling project management to adjust project interventions to suit the evolving needs
of forestry sector stakeholders.
*   Associations of local private forest owners will be established at selected sites through a community
development program. Local private forest owners associations will support individual and common
forest owners at the local level to: (a) become aware of their responsibilities and opportunities; (b)
access information on techniques and technologies for sustainable forest management and use, (c)
pool resources to hire professional management and advisory services, (d) access credit and grant
resources, such as SAPARD, (e) interact with local communities and other stakeholders with respect
to use of forest resources. Local associations will provide a vehicle for regular and institutionalized
interactions among key stakeholders, including the state, forest owners, and rural communities at
large, to maintain and improve sustainable use of forest resources and increase economic returns
from forest use.
* The Forest Business Information Center will increase provide infornation and services necessary to
increase the competitiveness and profitability of forest based industries, thereby increasing
employment opportunities, particularly for rural populations, but also for urban populations
associated with secondary processing industries and marketing.
*   As part of the institutional assessment and restructuring of NFA, staff training programs will address
the needs of remaining NFA staff and employees that may be made redundant as a result of the
restructuring process. Training needs assessment will be undertaken in close collaboration with NFA
employees and the markets for retrained staff.
*   The project will support a public awareness campaign that will periodically monitor public opinion
concerning the role and performance of NFA. Monitoring will achieve the dual goal of informing the
forestry sector stakeholders and the general public about NFA's role in forest management, and will
solicit popular opinion concerning desirable and beneficial adjustments to the role of NFA. Feedback
will guide any necessary adjustments to project design implementation.
* NGO participation in the Project Oversite Committee has been welcomed by Govermnent. The NGO
community will be responsible for identifying a representative to participate in this Committee.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society has provided significant contributions to project design and is expected to play a key role in
implementation. Civil society groups directly involved in implementation of the project include national
and local private forest owners associations, and the Romanian association of forest industries, an
organization uniting wood processors and foresters. Additionally, the association of forest industries will
benefit from advice and information services provided by Forest Sector Business Information Center.
The project preparation team consulted extensively with the academic community, particularly the
Department of Silviculture of the University of Transylvania, Brasov, and environmental NGOs.
Implementation of the public awareness component will be guided by an inter-sectoral steering
committee.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The development of institutions that support social development outcomes is central to project design.
Strategic review of NFA followed by reforms to ensure sustainability of its public good functions and
improved efficiency in its commercial activities will diminish dislocation associated with down-sizing.
- 33 -



Enhanced organizational capacity of national and local private forest owners associations will provide
opportunities for private forest owners to form associations to improve efficiency of private forest
management and voice their concerns nationally. The Forestry Sector Business Information Center will
help catalyze development and expansion of competitive forest industries. The public awareness
campaign will support development of social cohesion among forest communities and forestry sector
stakeholders, and the activities of all project implementing agencies.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will use multilevel analysis to measure national and local effects of social changes associated
with the restitution process and directly with the project. At the national level the project will monitor
for
*   Changes in employment in timber and related industries
*   Change in the share of national revenue coming from the forestry sector
*   Change in the number of visitors (foreign and national) visiting national parks/protected areas
*   Change in the image of NFA with communities living in forested areas
To obtain these measurements the project will follow national labor statistics, changes in the composition
of national GDP, statistics collected by the national parks on tourist flows, attitudinal surveys and media
content analysis to assess perceptions of NFA performance among the general public.
At the regional level, the project will measure the effects that changes in ownership and forest
management will have on welfare of urban and rural communities living in areas adjacent to forests.
Specifically, the project will measure:
1. The effect of changes in forest management systems and ownership rights on the ability of new
owners to derive revenue from forestry and related sectors.
2. Change in employment opportunities for skilled and unskilled workers living in areas adjacent to
forests.
3. Ability of the rural poor to access non-timber products in state/private forests.
4. Changes in attitudes to NFA as a manager of state/private forests.
A nationally representative survey of rural population living in and near forested areas has been
completed, to provide a baseline, and a follow up study will be commissioned during implementation.
The survey will be complemented by focus groups and interviews with key informants and stakeholders.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
-Policy                            -       Applicabilit*
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes (No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 * Yes (9 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  * Yes (9 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                ( Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (9 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        ( Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            ( Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      ( Yes * No
- 34 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Category A Environmental Assessment has been conducted and its findings have guided project design
(see Section 5 above).
The Project is in compliance with the Bank's forest policy in that project design: (a) takes account of
sector wide priorities which support implementation of the recently prepared National Forest Policy and
Strategy, and which emphasizes Governments commitment to forest conservation and sustainable
management; (b) emphasizes institutional development; and (c) supports private sector development and
the involvement of local communities.
Under Romanian law, Category I protected areas are exempt from commercial exploitation of forest
resources and are not eligible for restitution. The ongoing GEF/World Bank financed Biodiversity
Conservation Management Project is building the capacity for effective protected area planning and
management at three forested pilot sites in the Carpathian range. The Forestry Development Project will
augment this initiative by financing equipment that will assist the NFA to build on the experience of the
biodiversity project and establish effective management of a national network of forest protected areas.
All forest road rehabilitation and construction sub-projects financed under the project will be screened
for their potential impacts, environmental assessments will be carried out if necessary, and roads civil
works will be designed and implemented in accordance with Best Practice Guidelines that the project
will develop during the first year of project implementation.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The objective of the project is to ensure the long-term sustainable management of Romania's forest
resources and development of associated forest based industries.
Institutional sustainability will be ensured by strengthening the existing supervisory and regulatory
functions of MAFF through training and provision of the national forest database and monitoring system.
Environmental sustainability will be addressed through consolidation of forest management plans and
environmental data at national level, and the introduction of environmental guidelines for improving
physical infrastructure.
Financial sustainability of Government's role in forestry sector functions will be supported by the project
through: (a) reform of NFA and payment to state of a rent or dividend to support other state functions in
relation to forestry; and (b) increased tax revenue from an expansion of the economic activity within the
sector.
- 35 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk,Rating            Risk MitigationlMeasure
From Outputs to Objective
Private forest owners may adopt           S        Public awareness campaign targeting key
unsustainable forest management                    stakeholders including private forest owners
practices
Strengthening the forest inspectorate and
extension service
Expansion and strengthening of the network of
forest owners associations
Community development to facilitate
establishment of Associations of Local Forest
Owners
Changing political leadership may result  N        Continuing dialogue between the Bank and
in loss of Government commitment to                Government of Romania regarding project
proposed program.                                  progress and benefits, and implementation of
the recently prepared Forest Sector Policy and
Strategy
From Components to Outputs
Rate of forest restitution outpaces       S        Capacity building of inspectorate undertaken as
development of the capacity of the forest          a priority
inspectorate
Implementation of the National Forest Policy
and Strategy.
Public service salaries may be            S        Provision of training, office facillities and
insufficient to adequately motivate                vehicles facilitates improved working
inspectorate staff                                 conditions
Ability of NFA to maintain existing and   M        Quality of roads after rehabilitiation will allow
new forest roads                                   for road tax payable by harvesting companies
to cover costs of maintenence
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 36 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The potential for controversy associated with construction of new forest roads was one of the factors
which led to the project's classification as an environmental Category A project, requiring a full
Environmental Assessment with public disclosure and consultation. The EA process provided a vehicle
to inform and solicit feedback from stakeholders and has confirmed general support for project goals and
actions, while proposing a range of mitigation steps which have been incorporated in the project's design.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The procurement specialist for the PMU has been appointed with qualifications, experiences and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* The Project Management Unit which is currently responsible for managing the World Bank-financed
Biodiversity Conservation Management Project (BCMP), will be legally authorized to provide
project management services for the FDP.
*   The Project Oversight Committee will be established within 30 days after Effectiveness.
* Office space and furnishings for the expanded PMU will be provided by MAFF or NFA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
DJ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[  1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Peter A. Dewees                 Laura Tuck                       Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                     Sector Director                  Country Director
-37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA Forest Development Project
.   ~ ~  ~  ~  -K  ,,                          ,         . 
t ; -i,-l- 'Key Performance                    -    =='- ' Data Collection Strategy.
Hierarchy 6f0Object#Ves,;'5-F    Indicators                                       C-ritical -Assumptiris,
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promotion of structural reform Increased contribution to GDP Country economic statistics  Constraints to private sector
and private sector         from private sector                                    investment are overcome
development                development
Protecting and enhancing the  No significant degradation of  National forest inventory  Private forest owners comply
environment                forest ecosystems                                      with sustainable forest
Forest management          management practices
infornation and monitoring
system
Biodiversity monitoring
system
Rationalization and        Acceptance of National Forest Progress and supervision  Change(s) in political
strengthening role of the State  Sector Policy and Strategy  reports             leadership will continue to
support institutional reform
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The objective of the project is Increased contribution to GDP Annual reports of MAFF  Private forest owners comply
to maintain and improve    derived from sustainable forest                        with sustainable forest
environmentally sustainable  management               Annual reports of NFA       management practices
management of state and
private forests so as to   Increased economic value of  National forest information  Wood market will reduce
increase the contribution to the exports derived from  and monitoring system reports dependency on illegally
national and rural economies  sustainable forest                                  harvested wood
derived from Romanian forest management; and          National Statistics Office
resources.                                            reports                     Constraints to investment in
primary and secondary wood
Increase in public support for  Public awareness surveys  sector are overcome
forestry and sustainable
management of the forest   Progress and supervision    Change(s) in political
resource.                  reports                    leadership will continue to
support the program
-38 -



Key Perfoinrance6'_"  ' Data,CollectionrFStrategy  .                    -t
r Hierarchy of Qbjectives-        n lijdlcatprs       ical iAssumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Forest Inspectorate (i)  1.1 Number of branch offices  Project progress reports  Pace of forest restitution does
efficiently supervising,   with capacity established                             not outpace the
monitoring and regulating                             Supervision reports        implementation of forest
forest operations countrywide  1.2 Number of staff trained                       inspectorate capacity
to ensure sustainable                                 MAFF Annual Report
utilization of forest resources; 1.3 Number of supervisory                       Private owners receptive to
and (ii) providing extension  visits undertaken       FMIMS reports             role of inspectorate in ensuring
and advisory services for new                                                    sustainability of forest
private forest owners.     1.4 Number of participants                           resource
and extension courses
provided                                              NFA co-operates with
inspectorate in supervision of
forests
2. National forest management 2.1 Forest management plans, Annual reports MAFF   Current forest management
information and monitoring  cadastre and industry                                plan data are complete
system (FMIMS)             information consolidated at  National forest information
national level             and monitoring system reports Existing data capable of being
migrated to new information
2.2 Application modules    Project progress reports   and monitoring system
developed and installed on
FMIMS                      Supervision reports        Users capable of identifying
clearly their information needs
2.3 System installed in forest
inspectorate offices
2.4 Numbers of staff trained in
using the system
3. Strategic, targeted national  3.1 Results of surveys  Campaign strategy and action  Effectiveness of campaign to
public awareness campaign                             plan                       influence key target audiences
implemented to build support 3.2 Number of media hits
for sustainable management of                         Survey results             Clarification of conflicting
forest resources           3.3 Promotional materials                             messages from various players
distributed to target audiences Project progress reports  in forest industry sector
Supervision reports
4. Reform and Strategic    4.1 Increase in level of cost  Annual reports of NFA  Access to data and information
development plan for NFA   savings                                               during review of NFA
with identified and quantified                        Project progress reports
cost savings and dividend /  4.2 Value of dividend paid to                       Cooperation of senior
rent payable to the State  the state                  Supervision reports        management of NFA
4.3 Increase in level of                              Willingness to change
operational efficiency on
major work activities
5. Private forest owner    5.1 Membership profile -   Project progress reports   Private owners willing to pay
associations (national and  number, geographic                                   for services provided by
local-level) servicing the  distribution and forest area- of Supervision reports  associations
- 39 -



identified needs of the private  private forest owners
owners                     association(s)             Annual reports of private
owners association(s)
5.2 Number of branch
associations established
5.3 Range of services
provided to members
6. Forest sector business  6.1 Number of inquiries from  Project progress reports  Long term (5- 10) year
development unit providing  forest sector                                        contracts for wood sales from
information and advice to                             Supervision mission reports  NFA
private sector clients.    6.2 Number ofjoint venture
partners identified.                                  Access to financing
6.3 Number ofjoint ventures
established
6.4 Number of information
notes disseminated
7. Improved physical       7.1 Reduction in average cost Project progress reports  Resolution of any conflicts
infrastructure in pilot areas  of road construction                              with private owners regarding
demonstrating economic and                            Supervision reports        access
enviromnentally sound access  7.2 Reduction in extraction
to the timber resource     distance and harvesting cost                          Ability of NFA to fund
on-going maintenance of new
7.3 Reduction in                                      roads constructed.
environmental impact of forest
road construction
-40 -



-        -       ; u  i Key Performance  : =DatatoilectionStrteg.'
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
A. Establishment of Systems Total component: US $10.05
to Ensure Sustainable      million, of which:
Management of Private
Forest Lands
1. Forest inspectorate:   $4.70 million             Project progress reports  Al. Completion of staffing
supervisory, regulatory, and                                                   plans, training program, and
advisory capacity                                   Disbursement reports      studies, and the subsequent
political will to follow
possibly controversial reform
recommendations derived
from the studies
2. Support for National and  $0.58 million          System monitoring reports  A2. Available technical
Local Associations of Private                                                 expertise is sufficient to create
Forest Owners                                                                  demand from owners
Association annual reports
Owners' willingness to
associate
3. Forest Management      $4.77 million                                        A3. GoR agreement on
Information and Monitoring                                                    long-term financing of
System                                                                         recurrent costs of the FMIMS
Adequate local
programming/IT management
expertise for initial
system/software development
B. Mitigation of          Total component: US $19.24
Consequences of Restitution  million, of which:
on Management of State
Forest Lands
1. Reform and strategic   $1 .10 million            Project progress reports  B I. Completion of studies,
development of NFA                                                             and the subsequent political
Disbursement reports      will to follow possibly
controversial reform
recommendations derived
from the studies
2. Rehabilitation and new  $18.14 million           FMS reports                B2. NFA acceptance of Forest
construction of forest roads                                                  Road Best Practice Guidelines
to be developed in PYI
C. Support for increased  $0.72 million             FORSBIC annual reports     C. Sufficient
productivity and                                                               local/international demand for
competitiveness of forest                                                      Romanian forest products
industries through
- 41 -



establishment of a Forest
Sector Business Information
Center
D. Build public support for  $0.69 million            Public opinion surveys    D. Campaign effective in
sustainable forest                                                              educating selected target
management                                            Results from awareness    groups
campaigns
E. Project Management and  $1.19 million              Disbursement reports       E. MAFF maintains PMU
Monitoring                                                                      staff according to agreed plan
Supervision reports
-42 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ROMANIA: Forest Development Project
In line with the development objective, the FDP will assist MAFF to: (a) establish systems to ensure
sustainable management of private forest lands through building the capacity of the Forest Inspectorate,
supporting the development of private forest owners associations, and establishing a forest information
and monitoring system; (b) mitigate the consequences of restitution on the management of State forest
lands by assisting NFA to maintain, develop and finance its important role in managing protection
forests, and reduce the environmental impacts and improve the economic efficiency of managing State
production forests through development of the forest road network; (c) support increased productivity
and competitiveness of forest industries, through establishing and operating a Forest Sector Business
Information Center; (d) build public support for sustainable forest management by implementing a public
awareness program targeting key stakeholders with emphasis on new forest land owners and their
associated communities; and (e) manage and coordinate all the inputs through supporting the MAFF's
Project Management Unit (PMU).
By Component:
Project Component I - US$10.05 million
Component 1: Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest Lands will
be achieved through: (a) Strengthening the Department of Forests, with emphasis on the nationwide
Forest Inspectorate and support service, within MAFF to provide extension and advisory services to
meet the needs of the new private forest owners, as well as supervise, regulate and monitor sustainable
forest management activities in private and state forest lands; (b) Supportfor the Development of
National and Local Associations of Private Forest Owners, through MAFF by providing for the
establishment and operation of national and local associations of private forest owners, including
providing assistance for the development of membership profiles, recruitment plans, service-delivery
profiles, business development plans, and capacity building for financial and procurement management
through the provision of training and services. At the local level, the project will provide support
through targeted community development assistance in areas with high levels of poverty where forest
lands will be restituted to individual owners, joint common owners and communal owners (at the village
and commune level) and who currently have limited capacity to organize; and (c) Establishing a
nationalforest management information and monitoring system needed by the Forest Inspectorate for
supervision and control to ensure sustainable management and development of the forest sector, by
providing updated and integrated access to forest management plans, cadastre, laws and regulations,
forest inventory and biodiversity, data on the flow of forest products, and statistics on forest industries
and trade.
(a) Strengthening the Department of Forests (DOF), with emphasis on the nationwide Forest
Inspectorate and support service, within MAFF to provide extension and advisory services to meet
the needs of the new private forest owners, as well as supervise, regulate and monitor sustainable
forest management activities in private and state forest lands, will be achieved through:
(i)    Sharing experience with govenmuents and forest administrations in other relevant
European countries (e.g., Austria, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Slovenia) will be achieved by
means of a study tour to be undertaken at the beginning of the first year of project
implementation in order to assist senior DOF staff to develop a vision for the future role,
function and capacity needs of the DOF. Information obtained and conclusions drawn from the
study tour will provide input to assessment of human resources and institutional needs
undertaken under the following sub-component.
-43 -



(ii)   Assessing the human resource and institutional needs of the DOF, and developing and
implementing a staff training program that will enable DOF to fulfill its role and mandate in
regulating and supporting sustainable management of Romania's forest resources.
*   Assessment of the human resource and training needs will be undertaken in the first year
of project implementation and will entail: (a) review and analysis of DOF staff capacity
through structured interviews and meetings with staff throughout the institution; (b)
identification and agreement with DOF and MAFF on the skills and staffing required for
the DOF to fulfill its role and legal mandate; (c) identification and assessment of
available training courses including distance learning; (d) design of course curricula for
selected staff, detailing main topics, duration, location, training methods and targeted
staff; (e) assessment of DOF training capacity and facilities; (f) identification of training
which could be organized within DOF by their own staff; and (g) development of a
detailed, phased and costed training program including an implementation schedule.
*   Implementation of the training program will be undertaken through provision of: (a)
courses provided by Romanian education institutions for technical training; (b)
commercial training organizations for public awareness, management, communication
and IT skills training; and (c) training provided by a DOF in-house training facility that
will be developed under the project, initially to cover DOF intemal procedures but that
will later, when the new in-house skills are developed, be expanded to include extension
skills, technical and management subjects. Intemal procedures will include, for example,
processes and procedures for forest management plan review and approval, and spot
checks of timber trucks, etc. Inspectorate staff will need to be instructed on how to
undertake this work and in the use of standard check lists, forms and reports. By project
completion and thereafter, the bulk of training should be provided in-house by the DOF
training facility.
(iii)  Developing a national standard for sustainable forest management through provision of
technical assistance to design and implement a participatory process to develop national level
criteria and indicators for sustainable forest management. This will enable Romania to: (a) meet
its intemational obligations under the Lisbon Ministerial Conference; (b) facilitate monitoring
and demonstration of Romania's maintenance of sustainable forest management; and (c)
implement requirements on standards stipulated by the silvicultural/policy statement of the
National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS). The outputs from this process will guide
development of operating procedures for the Forest Inspectorates , in terms of the parameters to
be monitored, measured and analyzed, and design of the Forest Management Information and
Monitoring System.
(iv)   Providing the physical resources needed by the DFO's Forest Inspectorate to become
effectively operational, including: (a) office fumiture and equipment, including computers,
software, printers, fax machines etc, for headquarters and for the Inspectorates 16 branch offices
and 100 silvic districts; (b) field equipment, including mensuration and survey equipment needed
to enable staff to undertake necessary supervisory, monitoring and control activities; (c) vehicles
needed to enable staff undertake the necessary field inspections; and (d) training equipment to
support development of the in-house training capacity.
(b) Supportfor the Development of National and Local Associations of Private Forest Owners,
through MAFF by providing for their establishment and operation, including providing assistance for
- 44 -



the development of membership profiles, recruitment plans, service-delivery profiles, business
development plans, and capacity building for financial and procurement management through the
provision of training and services. At the local level, the project will provide support through
targeted conmmunity development assistance in areas with high levels of poverty where forest lands
will be restituted to individual owners, joint common owners and communal owners (at the village
and commune level) and who currently have limited capacity to organize.
An essential activity will be to facilitate the establishment of regional and local associations of
private forest owners and to provide assistance to these associations in applying for grant funding
under the EU SAPARD measure 3.5. This will be a significant incentive for the expansion of the
national and local private forest owners associations and will also provide funding to substantially
expand the range of extension and management services at the local level through provision of
monies for salaries of professional staff, the costs associated with establishing and operating new
forest owners associations, and of preparing forest management plans.
Community development work to assist new forest owners to organize and establish local
associations will be contracted competitively to a consultant or appropriately qualified community
development organization, and will be undertaken throughout project implementation. The
consultant will:
(i)    Select target areas in accordance with criteria that will be refined during an inception
phase. Selection criteria will include forest lands where:
* significant areas of forest is being restituted to individuals, joint common ownership and
local communes;
* higher levels of poverty prevail;
* new forest owners have not already formed forest owners associations; and
* there is limited access to alternative sources of support for community development;
(ii)   Train community development workers in the purpose and function of local associations
and methodologies for their establishment;
(iii)  Develop a manual detailing best practice procedures and processes for facilitating
establishment of local associations;
(iv)   Facilitate establishment of about 90 local forest owners associations, having
administrative authority for a total area of approximately 400,000 ha of private forests, during the
first two years of project implementation;
(v)    Assess the need for additional community development work to support development of
local forest owners associations and expand the program to establish about 160 local
associations, having administrative responsibility for a total area of approximately 600,000 ha of
private forest land, by year six; and
(vi)   Monitor the progress and effectiveness of operation of local forest owners associations
and provide technical support where necessary.
(d) Establishing a nationalforest management information and monitoring system (FMIMS)
needed by DoF and its Forest Inspectorate to establish the capacity to facilitate and support
sustainable development of the forest sector by providing updated and integrated access to forest
-45 -



management plans, cadastre, laws and regulations, forest inventory and biodiversity, data on the flow
of forest products, and statistics on forest industries and trade. This will entail investment in
hardware, software and training, and technical assistance with design, establishment and operation of
the system. Inputs for the FMIMS will include the existing and comprehensive coverage of forest
management plans, forest inventory and maps that are currently available with the forest resources
research institute (ICAS). The information system would be used to enable MOF to monitor and
manage:
(i) preparation. review and approval of forest management plans - this would entail storage,
retrieval, analysis, consolidation and approval of forest management plans, forest inventory,
cadastre, laws and regulations and other approvals;
(ii) forest operations, including flow of forest products and statistics on forest industry and trade;
and
(iii) DOF operations and administration, which will provide support, and will be responsible for
the approval, supervision and monitoring of an estinated 600,000 new forest owners, their forest
management plans and harvesting operations; and an annual national timber harvest approaching
17 million cubic meters (approximate standing value of US $268 million at current local prices).
Additionally, some types of stored information and data will be made available to users through
dynamic interfaces to be established with the private forest owners associations and the National
Forest Administration. This will allow electronic transfer of management plans, requests for
permission to fell, etc., as well as approvals from the DOF, thereby greatly improving efficiency.
Development of the FMIMS will be initiated in the first year of project implementation and will be
completed in a phased manner over the lifetime of the project, and will entail:
*   In the first year, the following consultants will be recruited: a project manager (full time in the
first 3 years, part time thereafter), a systems analyst and a database designer (both part time for 4
months in year 1, then I month each year for the following 3 years). Their function will be to
manage and supervise the implementation of the information management system on behalf of
the DOF, prepare tender documents, evaluate tenders, assist DOF and private forest owners
associations to prepare job descriptions for IT staff, evaluate applications, and monitor progress
of IT contractors.
*   Recruitment of IT and support staff needed by DOF to manage and operate the FMIMS at the
regional and central levels.
*   Appointing a main contractor to provide and install the FMIMS, including the supervision of
provision of hardware and software and design and development of the custom built software,
NFA interfaces, the provision of local area networking capabilities and other communications
solutions in a phased implementation schedule over the project lifetime.
*   Inplementing an IT training program for all relevant staff at three levels: basic functionality,
application functionality, and system administration.
*   Management, maintenance and upgrading of the system on a continuous basis.
Project Component 2 - US$19.24 million
Mitigate the Consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest Land
-46 -



by: (a) Supporting Reform and Strategic Development of the NFA through preparing and
assisting NFA to implement a strategic plan to develop and finance its role in managing State
forests. This will be achieved through: (i) identifying, quantifying and separating the costs and
benefits of the public good and economic functions of NFA, and preparing a financial accounting
system to ensure that all activities are adequately resourced, (ii) preparing and assisting with
implementation of a plan for reforming and strengthening the institutional capacity to improve
operational and commercial efficiency, thereby optimizing revenue generation from production
forest, while safeguarding the public interest and ecological services provided by protection and
production forest; (iii) developing a detailed, phased and costed action plan to NFA's non-core
activities for either privatization or development, including provision of management services to
the new private sector; (iv) assisting NFA define its information management system
requirements to support its strategic development and providing an interactive link with the
national forest management information and monitoring system that the project will establish
within the Department of Forests; (v) establishing an objective and auditable process for
determining reserve pricing for timber auctions; and (vi) providing logistical support in terms of
vehicles and equipment required to manage the forest protected area network, which is being
developed with the assistance of the ongoing Biodiversity Conservation Management Project; and
(b) Rehabilitating and expanding theforest road network to reduce the environmental impact,
and improve the economic viability of wood harvesting in State production forests. The
investment in around 10 km of new roads construction (in 4 sub-projects) and 425 km of roads
and railway infrastructure rehabilitation (in around 53 sub-projects) will have a positive impact on
the economic performance of the NFA and will help offset the increased costs incurred as a result
of the decreasing proportion of production to protection forests. The locations of all road
sub-projects have been selected through a process of environmental, social and economic
screening and all new roads and any rehabilitation sub-projects will have an Environmental
Assessment undertaken. 'Best Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads' will be prepared in the first
year of implementation and will be included in tender documents/contracts for intemational
comnpetitive bidding to ensure both competitive pricing and that environmentally sound
construction techniques are utilized.
(a) Supportng Reform and Strategic Development of the NFA. The FDP will initially support
reform of NFA through provision of technical assistance for a needs assessment and development of
a plan in year one, followed by additional support to implement the recommended course of action.
Prior to project implementation, the NFA will (a) initiate an intemal review of operational efficiency
and opportunities for cost saving across the whole spectrum of its activities, identifying and
prioritizing areas and activities where improvements are possible, and (b) research how change has
been undertaken in forest administrations in similar European countries, and identify relevant
experience and lessons learned. The project will support this process with an intemational study tour
for senior NFA staff to selected European countries (e.g. Austria, Slovenia, Ireland and Czech
republic) at the beginning of the first year of project implementation. The study tour will be
undertaken in conjunction with the DOF. The review and reform process will be advised by a
consultative committee to be established by NFA and composed of senior technical level staff from
NFA, MAFF, the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, and of Environment and Waters, national
and local associations of private forest owners, and the association of forest industries (ASFOR).
The project will finance technical assistance to enable MAFF to assist NFA to:
(i)    Review and analyze its operational capacity including: financial performance;
accounting systems; silvicultural operations; public purpose activities; non-core activities; sales
-47 -



and marketing systems; capacity to provide services to private forest owners; current
role/functions within the context of present institutionalllegal/policy framework; and, human
resource capacity.
(ii)   Develop and review different options for NFA's future role and formulate and agree a
plan for its strategic development. This will involve working closely with MAFF, NFA and other
appropriate stakeholders. The process will take account of NFA's public purpose activities, the
planned restitution and Romania's planned accession to the European Union. NFA staff will
participate in the development of the different options through a series of workshops. Relevant
experience from other forest organizations in Europe that have already undertaken similar
reforms will be taken into account. A broad-based financial analysis (including the implications
of public purpose activities), time frame and schedule of major actions will be produced for each
scenario/option developed. The different options will then be reviewed by NFA and MAFF with
the participation of key stakeholder groups, and the most appropriate option for strategic and
organizational development selected.
(iii)  Develop a detailed, phased and costed strategic action plan to enable NFA to implement
the strategic development option chosen under (ii). The plan will identify key actions, milestones
and an implementation schedule and will detail:
*   NFA's future functions and activities;
*   The range and cost of NFA's public purpose activities (including management of
protection forests and forest protected areas) and how these activities could be financed;
*   Existing activities and assets that should be either developed within NFA or privatized;
*   Any necessary changes in legislation and or regulations;
*   Costed recommendations relating to financial management, operational efficiency and
strategic development, benchmarking against similar forest companies where
appropriate; and
*   A human resource development plan to assist implementation including providing
support to possible transfer of NFA staff to the private sector and training for remaining
staff.
(iv)   Develop an objective and auditable model for the determination of reserve prices for
NFA's competitive timber sales. This will include: review of the existing systems; analysis of the
historical prices achieved in comparison with costs and prices achieved in other European
countries; identification of reserve pricing systems elsewhere that could be relevant to Romania;
consultation with the Competition Committee, the NFA, timber buyers, and the processing sector
on parameters and procedures for the development of reserve pricing; development of a reserve
pricing model that is auditable and capable of regular updating to reflect changes in market
prices; and, analysis of the impact of the model on NFA, private owners, inward investment and
the processing industry.
(v)    Develop and cost an information systems strategy that will support the chosen
development option and allow for an interface with the FMIMS being developed for the DOF.
This will entail: review and analysis of the current and planned IT system in NFA; development
of applications, technical and data strategies; identify the requirements for data transfer between
FMIMS and NFA; and, provide a costed and phased plan for implementation.
Following development of the plan for reform and development of NFA, the project will support its
implementation by:
-48 -



(i)    providing training to NFA staff and technical assistance (to be specified during the TA in
year 1) to support the proposed strategic development;
(ii)   providing additional technical assistance (to be detailed during the TA in year 1) to
support the upgrade of the IT system and to assist in the provision of new accounting software;
(iii)  developing the interface between the NFA IT system and the FMIMS; and,
(iv)   providing logistical support in terms of computers, field equipment, GIS software and
vehicles to NFA's protected area management function.
(b) Rehabilitating and expanding theforest road network, on a pilot basis, to improve the
economic viability of wood harvesting in State-managed production forests, and to test approaches
toward reducing the negative environmental impacts of forest road construction. The investment
rehabilitation of existing degraded forest roads and construction of new forest roads will have a
significant and positive environmental impacts by reducing log skidding distances and associated
erosion and siltation of water courses, and by reducing the economic incentive to over-harvest timber
from areas adjacent to existing serviceable roads. Improvements in road construction techniques that
will be developed under the project will establish standards and guidelines for mitigating
environmental impacts that have formerly been associated with some road construction and poor
siting of new roads. Importantly, improvements in the forest road network will improve the
economic performance of the NFA and help offset the increased costs associated with the decreasing
proportion of production to protection forests.
A total of 57 forest road sub-projects were selected during project preparation through a process of
environmental, social and economic screening. Of the 57 road sub-projects, 4 involve the
construction of new roads (around 10 kIn) and 52 entail rehabilitation of existing roads (371 kIn), one
constitutes the rehabilitation of a the Vasar Forest Railway (54 kIn).
In order to ensure compliance with environmental safeguards, all road sub-projects will be designed
and implemented in accordance with 'Best Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads', which will be
prepared during the first year of project implementation. Forest road development activities that will
be undertaken during the first year of project implementation include:
(i)    A study tour for approximately five senior NFA staff who will be involved in supervising
the design and siting of forest roads and road contractors, to a country where similar
mountainous forest roads exist (e.g. Austria);
(ii)   Preparation of detailed 'Best Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads';
(iii)  Modification of the design of rehabilitation sub-projects that will be implemented at the
end of year 1, in line with the 'Best Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads', and the preparation of
the technical specifications and tender documents;
(iv)   In accordance with the recommendations of the independent Environmental Assessment,
all road sub-projects will be re-screened following a detailed process to identify which of the
rehabilitation sub-projects will require an in-depth environmental assessment (this will include
all new forest road construction sub-projects);
(v)    Environmental assessment of new roads and the rehabilitation sub-projects that will be
-49 -



implemented in year 2.
Road sub-projects to be undertaken in the second of project implementation are all rehabilitation
sub-projects and have been screened and selected to ensure beneficial enviromnental impacts. The
nature of rehabilitation works will vary in accordance with local needs and may range from limited
interventions, such as resurfacing, to reconstructing seriously eroded sections of roads, bridges,
drains and culverts. Much of the design work, all pre-feasibility and many of the feasibility studies
have already been completed. In some instances technical specifications have already been prepared,
but will be revised in accordance with the Best Practice Guidelines that will be developed in year
one.
Forest road sub-projects will implemented by contractors selected in accordance with World Bank
guidelines for international competitive bidding. This will improve competition and is expected to
reduce the costs of forest road construction in Romania and bring it into line with international
prices. Contractors will be obliged to conform with the 'Best Practice Road Guidelines for Forest
Roads' and the new environmental standards that they will set. Creating relatively large contracts (by
local standards) will enable contractors to invest in new machinery and operator training. Joint
ventures between international and local companies will also be encouraged.
Road sub-projects will be located throughout the country but have been grouped, based on
geographical location, into a total of 9 contracts that will be implemented over a three year period.
Contracts range in value from US $105,000 to US $2.4 million. Contractors will be permitted to
compete for one or more contracts, allowing for small local firms to bid for the smaller contracts and
larger companies or consortia bid for a combination of contracts. Each individual sub-project will be
implemented over a period of one to three years.
Supervision of the construction of the roads will be undertaken jointly by NFA, their road
consultants, the National Wood Institute (INL) and the Project Management Unit's road engineer.
Following construction, the NFA will finance the ongoing maintenance and upkeep of the roads with
support of a fee levied on harvesting contractors.
Project Component 3- USS 0.72 million
Support Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest Industries through establishing and
operating the Forest Business Information Center (ForsBIC), an independent business development and
advisory service, which will establish linkages and coordination within the forest industry chain (i.e.,
silviculture, harvesting, transport, primary and secondary processing), and provide assistance to wood
and related forest industries, through review and dissemination of information on new technologies,
markets and prices, export and hygiene requirements, product promotion and branding, opportunities for
joint venture partnerships, and the availability of grants, and credit etc. The Forest Business Information
Center will provide a one stop knowledge/information point dedicated to the forest sector, with the
objective of assisting small and medium enterprises, business interests, and other stakeholders to obtain
information concerning sources of finance, product development, technology, business development,
taxation and legislation, thereby supporting the growth and development of the sector.
ForSBIC will be a stand-alone, non-profit entity created under a tender competition during the first year
of the FDP. It will function as an information provider/dissemination unit, providing generic advice, but
will not undertake specific customer commissioned consultancies. During the first five years, ForSBIC
will be under the supervision of the MAFF PMU and subject to World Bank audit and review. Following
completion of FDP support, a board of Directors would regulate ForSBIC on behalf of its members.
ForSBIC should remain a non-profit organization under its original mandate. Any profits generated
would be reinvested into maintaining and expanding the range and quality of services provided.
- 50 -



The project will finance ForsBIC's costs on a sliding scale over a four year period, thereafter all costs
will be derived from the sale of yearbooks, CD-ROMS, advertising, membership and research activities.
There are also opportunities for cooperation with other donor organizations such as the EU, GTZ and
EBRD. Revenue projections indicating that the center will be able to cover all costs within a four year
period are based on current market prices for membership of similar organizations, advertising,
magazines and home pages in Romania, and are conservative in comparison to potential.
ForSBIC will provide:
(i) up-to-date forest and forest business information through yearbooks, CD-ROMs, a website and
quarterly magazines and a help desk, on sources of finance, products, marketing and sales, business
planning, distribution and export;
(ii) a venue where knowledge and information concerning the forest sector and forest-related
business opportunities can be disseminated and shared among all domestic and international
stakeholders and business interests in Romanian and other languages as appropriate. The center
would make available information on best practice, new technologies, market opportunities and
trends, product development, legislation and taxation and investment;
(iii)    improved availability of information on sources of grant and credit financing and
opportunities for joint venture partnerships for forest sector enterprises;
(iv) an information conduit for State, donor and other organizations on forest sector issues; and
(v) opportunities for promotion of forest products and services to Romanian and international
interests.
Project Component 4 - US$0.69 million
Building Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management through preparing and
implementing a public awareness strategy and campaign targeting key stakeholders, including the
general public, with particular emphasis on commnunities living in forested areas; private forest
owners; Forest Inspectorate staff; NFA; Govermnent decision makers, and other influential
groups including churches and NGOs. hnplementation of the program will be supported by an
inter-ministerial committee including the Ministries of: Industry and Commnerce; Education;
Waters and Environmental Protection; Culture; Tourism; and Public Administration. Campaign
strategies will include: educating mass media; providing public relations guidance to Forest
Inspectorate staff; developing educational and promotional materials for use in schools and mass
media; organizing local education events; supporting public awareness campaigns at the local
level; involvement of environmental NGOs in educational projects; and support for the PMU to
develop their public relations capacity and inform key decision-makers of the status of project
implementation. The public awareness campaign will undertake regular assessments of
stakeholder perceptions, which will be used to refine the implementation of the campaign in line
with changing requirements.
The public awareness campaign will be implemented by three separate but closely coordinated
packages of activities that will be contracted competitively and supervised by the PMU. These
will include:
(a) Development and Supply of Public Relations Products - Under this contract, the
consultant will design and supply all the creative products needed by the public awareness
- 51 -



campaign, including brochures, website construction and maintenance, video documentaries
for schools (popular science format), and the general public (popular TV format), posters,
display stands for exhibitions and a travelling forest information center.
(b) Public Relations Support and Awareness Campaigns - Will require skills in workshop
design and facilitation, formal presentations and briefings, and management of exhibitions,
and will include:
(i)    Media relations development, including establishment of mechanisms to improve
and develop constructive dialog with the mass media; media education; monitoring,
analysis and response to media reporting of forest sector and FDP related issues;
(ii)   Provision of short training courses for local staff of the Forest Inspectorate and
the National and local private forest owners associations in media relations, organization
of information and promotional events, and public communications;
(iii)  Delivery of public relations products at the national and regional level, to inform
key decision-makers, including Government, churches, private land owners, and the
general public about progress in project implementation, the needs, activities and
achievements of the PMU, the Forest Inspectorate, NFA, and ForsBIC, and will develop
joint educational projects with NGOs; and
(iv)   Delivery of Local-level awareness campaigns to key stakeholders and the general
public will include seminars for associated and non-associated forest owners, and
operation of a travelling forest information center.
(c) Monitoring and Strategic Direction of the Public Awareness Component - will assist
the PMU with procurement and supervision of public awareness contracts; provide training to
PMU, Forest Inspectorate and national and local private forest owner associations in analysis
of the impact of the public awareness activities; and will undertake surveys and analysis to
assess public awareness and opinion concerning developments in the sector, implementation
of the FDP, and of the impact of public awareness activities, thereby providing feedback to
guide adjustment of ongoing public awareness interventions as necessary.
Project Component 5 - US$1.19 million
Project Management and Monitoring will be undertaken by the Project Management Unit
(PMU), already established by MAFF under the Biodiversity Conservation and Management
Project. The PMU, which is responsible for managing the BCMP and also effectively supervised
preparation of the FDP, currently includes a Project Manager, a Financial Management Specialist,
a Procurement Specialist and an Office Assistant. The BCMP is scheduled for completion during
year 2003; at that time, the project manager, financial management specialist and the assistant
would continue to be financed by the FDP until completion of the FDP, and the procurement
specialist would be financed by the FDP until midway through the fourth year of implementation,
by which time FDP procurement activities should have been completed. In addition to the
existing staff, the FDP will finance a roads specialist and a PA consultant to assist with
procurement, management and supervision of the road and public awareness components
throughout the entire period of FDP implementation.
Monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be undertaken by the PMU, and will be
subject to periodic review by the Bank. The PMU will establish project monitoring and
- 52 -



evaluation procedures acceptable to the Bank during the first six months of implementation, and
will furnish the Bank with biannual project progress reports, together with work programs
inclusive of detailed monitoring indicators for the following six month period. Key performance
indicators proposed for monitoring are in Annex 1. A Mid-Term Review will be undertaken
during the third year, focussing on the effectiveness, impact and appropriateness of project
activities with respect to the nature and pace of forest land restitution. Restructuring of project
activities would follow if appropriate. Lessons learned from implementation of project activities
will be recorded in a report prepared by the borrower with the assistance of the PMU.
- 53 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: Forest Development Project
-I                     w ; r        X 2  2     ~     1 - ; L-oca~  P   ' - lForeign - ---Total
Project CostOBy Component                    US$millio-     USm$millil U         illion
1. Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of                                      0.00
Private Forest Lands
Ia. Forest Inspectorate: Supervisory, Regulatory and          3.81           0.12          3.93
Advisory Capacity
lb. Support for National and Local Associations of Private    0.47           0.02          0.49
Forest Owners
Ic. Forest Management Information and Monitoring System       3.96           0.00          3.96
2. Mitigate Consequences of Restitution on Management of                                       0.00
State Forest Lands
2a. Reform and Strategic Development of the NFA               0.69           0.26           0.95
2b. Rehabilitation and New Construction of Forest Roads      15.03           0.02          15.05
3. Support Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of         0.58           0.01           0.59
Forest Industries through the Establishment of a Forest Sector
Business Information Center
4. Build Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management        0.57           0.00           0.57
5. Project Management & Monitoring                               0.90           0.09           0.99
Total Baseline Cost                                             26.01           0.52          26.53
Physical Contingencies                                          1.25           0.03           1.28
Price Contingencies                                             4.07           0.01          4.08
Total Project Costsl                31.33           0.56          31.89
Front-end fee                        0.25           0.25
Total Financing Required                  31.33           0.81          32.14
Note 1: The individual component totals shown here will not match the indicative financing for each component in
the Component Table in the Description section of the main text of the PAD. This table requires that the cost of
contingencies be separated from the components, and then shown as line items in aggregate. By contrast, the
Component Table in the Description section of the PAD shows totals for each component which include that
componentes portion of physical and price contingencies.
Note 2: The complete value for total estimated local costs is US $31,335,380. The complete value for total
estimated foreign costs is US $555,650. The difference between the local costs here and on Page I represents the
system rounding up on Page 1.
Note 3: The Front-End Fee is not part of the Loan (it is not capitalized), but rather is to be paid by the Borrower from its own
resources. Therefore, it does not show up in other cost tables in the document. It is shown here for completeness.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.29 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 29.6 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 84.46
% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 54 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ROMANIA: Forest Development Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
1.     This annex presents a summary of analysis of the economic impacts of the Romania Forestry
Development Project. The project has 5 main components:
*   Component 1: Establish systems to ensure sustainable management of private forest lands;
*   Component 2: Mitigate the consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest Land;
*   Component 3: Support increased productivity and competitiveness of forest industries through
the establishment of a Forest Sector Business Information Center (ForSBIC).
*   Component 4: Building Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management through the
preparation and implementation of a public awareness strategy and campaign.
*   Component 5: Project Management and Monitoring
2.     Cost-benefit analysis has been undertaken on all quantifiable benefits. The costs and benefits of
the non-quantifiable components such as the establishment of ForSBIC are described qualitatively.
Quantifiable economic benefits of the proiect against total proiect costs:
3.     By summing the quantifiable benefits and setting these against the total project costs and the
recurrent maintenance costs after completion of the project, it is possible to derive an overall cash flow
for the Forestry Development Project. The FDP's overall Net Present Value (NPV) over 17 years (the
loan period), with a cost of capital set at 12%, including all project costs but only the quantifiable
benefits, is just over US $57 million and the economic internal rate of return is 40%.
4.     The non-quantifiable benefits are likely to be several times larger than are the quantifiable
benefits. The project is therefore economically robust.
Ouantifiable economic benefits of components I and 4:
5.     The economic benefit of components one and four is associated with the reduction in loss of
forest cover that would almost certainly occur from the current planned forest restitution program in the
absence of project interventions. For the institutional support to the forest inspectorate, and the private
forest owners associations (component 1) and the public awareness components (component 4),
economic analysis compared with and without project scenarios.
6.     The without project scenario is based on the experience of the 1991 restitution. In 1999, an
inventory undertaken by the Forest Management and Research Institute (ICAS) systematically compared
a number of different forest parameters in a broad, representative sample of formerly restituted forest
lands with pre-restitution data for the same areas. The inventory indicated that, after seven years, 3.6% of
restituted forest land had no forest cover and that the remainder had a canopy closure of 89% of the
pre-restituted forests. By comparison, the standing volumes in non-restituted forest have increased.
Correlating the reduction in canopy closure and the reduction of forest cover with forest growth,
demonstrates that the 1991 restitution had the effect of decreasing the timber producing capacity by an
average of 1.19 m3/ha/year after seven years (in the early years following restitution, it is likely that the
reduction in productivity would have been greater, as many forests were initially clear cut but have since
naturally regenerated). By multiplying this figure by the average standing value for all timber species,
qualities, sizes and locations it has been possible to estimate the annual economic loss that could result
- 55 -



from restitution if it were to proceed in the absence of project interventions.
7.     Under Law 1/2000, nearly 3 million ha of forest has been claimed by the various types of former
forest owners (individuals, joint communal ownership, churches and institutions and municipalities,
towns and communes), however the final area of land that will be restituted and the speed with which the
restitution process will proceed is not yet known. Since the scale and the speed of the restitution process
will have an influence potential for economic impact, economic analysis considered two possible
scenarios. These are:
(a) the likely scenario (defined by informed local opinion), whereby it has been assumed that 2.55
million ha will have been restituted after 8 years; and
(b) the prudent scenario, whereby only 2.23 million ha will have been returned to its former owners
within an eight year period.
8.     Economic analysis assumes that, in the absence of the project, the loss in forest productivity in
newly restituted forest land would mirror the levels experienced following the 1991 restitution for
individual owners, but that losses would be only 25% of this rate for land returned to communal
municipal/institutional owners (45% of the forest area claimed for restitution) where management is
likely to be better. The rationale for this assumption is that joint and communal/municipal/institutional
owners are more likely to manage their forests better as they will have larger areas of forests and be more
likely to employ professional forest managers. However, there are likely to be some joint and conumunal
owners that, in the absence of project interventions, would try to realize the sudden economic windfall by
clearing areas of well stocked forest.
9.     The project will preempt losses in forest productivity through support to new forest owners from
an expanded and strengthened network of forest owners associations, provision of support for private
forest management, supervision and control of management planning and forest operations, and the
public awareness campaign. For the purposes of this analysis it is assumed that the project will avert loss
of production by at least 50% in the first two years and that this reduction of potential loss will increase
evenly with time to 80% by year six and 95% by year 8. This assumption is reasonable given that project
support is pragmatic and in line with the requirements of the sector and that the assumed potential
reduction in loss is small per unit area. When the small project-induced savings in loss of forest
productivity are multiplied over the total area of forest to be restituted (2.55 million ha), then the
economic significance is large.
10.    The net benefit of the project in quantifiable economic terms is the reduction in loss (i.e. saved
timber growth) due to the project interventions (i.e. the difference between the with and without project
scenarios). By subtracting the costs of project components one and four, it has been possible to develop
an economic cash flow. The cash flow provides an Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for the
prudent scenario of 60% with a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$ 53 million with a cost of capital set at
12%. For the likely restitution scenario the EIRR is 77%, which equates with a NPV of US$ 70 million.
11.   In other countries, where similar appropriate levels of support for private sector managed forests
are provided, private forests are frequently more productive, in terms of the value of sustainable timber
production, than are state managed forests. Hence the economic benefits associated with preempting the
loss in timber production are likely to be larger than presumed in this analysis.
12.    This analysis is based entirely on the productive commercial timber capacity of the forest. Forest
- 56 -



has many additional benefits such as: production of non timber forest products, recreational and scientific
use; environmental benefits such as erosion control, watershed protection; and, non use values such as
the existence values of bio-diversity, etc. These benefits are likely to have an economic value several
times greater than the benefits associated with timber production capacity alone, yet are not included in
the present analysis due to lack of reliable empirical information. The estimated economic benefits of
components I and 4 are therefore conservative.
Economic Analysis of the Forest Road Sub-Component of Component 2:
13.    For the forest roads sub-component, a cost-benefit analysis was undertaken comparing with and
without scenarios for individual road rehabilitation or construction sub-projects tentatively identified
during project preparation. As pre-feasibility studies have been carried out for most sub-projects, real
data were used in the analysis so there was no need for estimation of benefits (i.e. the proposed road lines
are known as are the current and proposed log skidding distances etc.). The costs and benefits for each
sub-project were then summed to derive the overall cost benefit analysis of this component.
14.    By repairing existing roads and building new roads the unit costs of harvesting will be
significantly reduced. Under current conditions the extraction distance is frequently greater than 2 km,
resulting in an average skidding cost of US$ 5.40 /ton/lkL Conversely haulage on a forest road by truck
on average costs only US$ 0.12 /ton/km. By repairing existing roads and constructing new roads
harvesting the average skidding distance will be reduced from over 2.5 km to less than 85 meters.
15.    From an environmental perspective, longer skidding trails leads to increased traffic on arterial
trails, resulting in an increase in erosion and damage to the forest floor and standing trees. Low forest
road density also encourages over-harvesting in areas near to the road, since longer skidding distances
also increases harvesting costs. Consequently, forest road rehabilitation and construction financed under
the project will result in significant environmental benefits that it has not be possible to incorporate in
calculation of the economic benefits of this component.
16.    The overall EIRR for all the road sub-projects is 24% with an NPV ofjust under US$ 14 million.
This, however, is only indicative, as the actual road sub-projects have yet to be confirmed, and will likely
change during implementation.
Non quantifiable benefits:
17.    While it is not possible to quantify the benefits of supporting strategic reform of the National
Forest Administration operations, economic benefits would include: reduced costs and increased
efficiency with an increased return to the state for the sale of its timber resources, as well as the relatively
much larger non-pecuniary economic benefits associated with maintaining the environmental benefits
and services of State forests.
18.    Benefits associated with operation of the Forest Sector Business Information Center would be
derived from facilitating access to grants, joint venture investment opportunities, an expanded and more
competitive forest industry sector employing more people, and a larger volume of forest products,
particularly value-added products, being exported to international markets.
Main Assumptions:
19.   In the absence of project interventions, the current restitution program would result in the same
pattern of loss of forest cover and reduction in canopy as occurred in the 1991 restitution program but
- 57 -



that the losses will only be 25% of this for ownership categories other than 'individual and joint
common'. This assumption is reasonable and conservative as the losses are not large overall (i.e., only
3.6% loss in cover, reduction of forest canopy to 89%, and an average loss in timber production of 1.19
m3/ha/year) and only 25% of this loss has been assumed for 45% of the restituted forest area.
20.    Under the likely restitution scenario, 2.55 million ha will be returned to former owners, whereas
only 2.23 million ha will be returned under the prudent scenario, both over an eight-year period. The
likely scenario is in line with current projections.
21.    Project interventions will, in the first two years of implementation, reduce forest cover losses by
50% and this reduction will increase evenly to 80% by year six and 95% by year 8. This assumption is
reasonable given that project support is pragmatic and in line with the requirements of the sector and that
the assumed potential reduction in loss per unit area is conservative.
Sensitivity analysis l Switching values of critical items:
22.    To test the sensitivity of the various assumptions used in the economic analysis, the key variables
have been altered to reduce the NPV of the project to zero at an interest rate of 12%, (the equivalent of
an Economic Internal Rate of Return of 12%). The results of the sensitivity analysis are presented in
Table 1.
Table 1 Sensitivity Analysis Changes in variables that would be needed to reduce the NPV to zero
'Growth sa%ed         m3/halyr   1t19       0.17      0.21  1
! peed of Resfibion  x/ change   i oo41     i%61      i %   l
Avprice of timber     US $/m3     11.62      1.61     2.03
JAil vanables        so change   i6oo                 56%   1
23.    This sensitivity analysis indicates that for the NPV to drop to zero, the average forest growth
saved (i.e. the reduction of the loss in timber production that would occur without the project
intervention) would have to drop from 1.19 m3/ha/year to 0.17 m3/ha/year for the likely restitution
scenario. This is unlikely as this assumption, already conservative, is based on scientific data collected
comparing the impacts of the 1991 restitution program.
24.    Similarly the restitution program would need to be considerably smaller (only 14% of the area
assumed in the analysis) to reduce the NPV to zero. However, since the assumption used in the economic
analysis is based on enacted legislation and actual claims, it is extremely unlikely that the restitution
program will be significantly cut back at this stage in the process.
25     The value of timber growth saved is calculated by using prices corrected for inflation to the year
2001, achieved by NFA timber sales in 1999/2000. These average prices would need to drop to just US$
1 .61/m3 for the project to break even (average free on board prices for hardwood logs were US$ 162/m3
for the last quarter of 2001). Timber prices are an international commodity and although some fall in the
price is possible due to worldwide recession, a drop of this magnitude is not feasible.
- 58 -



26.    If all the variables are reduced simultaneously then they would all need to be reduced to 52% of
the original assumptions. The likelihood of this occurring is extremely remote. The project is therefore
economically robust.
- 59 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: Forest Development Project
Years Ending
2003 - 2008
US $ millions
Year I I Year2 2     Year 3    Year4 4   Year5   | Year 6    Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          5.1        5.4       7.0        6.0       3.0       0.6       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.3       0.8        0.9       1.0       1.1        0.7      0.0
Total Project Costs         5.4        6.2       7.9        7.0       4.1       1.3       0.0
Front-end fee    0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing             5.4        6.2       7.9        7.0       4.1       1.3       0.0
Financing
IBRDnIDA                  4.3        4.9       6.3       5.5       3.0       1.0       0.0
Govemment                 0.8        0.4       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
National Forest             0.3        0.9       1.3        1.3       0.8      0.0        0.0
Administration
ForSBIC                     0.0        0.0       0.1        0.0       0.1      0.1        0.0
Total Project Financing    5.4        6.2       7.9        7.0       4.1       1.3       0.0
Main assumptions:
Note 1: Total government contribution is US $2,006,000, of which taxes are US $1,870,700, and local costs
are US $135,300.
Note 2: The system will only allow one decimal point in the above table. For rounding purposes, the total
contribution for the Forest Sector Business Information Center of US $300,000 is shown above evenly
distributed over 3 different years, with approximately US $100,000 in each year. For accuracy, note that the
ForSBIC will contribute an increasing amount of operational costs as the project progresses: Yr. 1 - no cost
sharing; Yr. 2, US $31,000; Yr. 3, US $46,000; Yr. 4, US $63,000; Yr. 5, US $71,000; and Yr. 6, bearing
full costs for operations, US $88,000.
Note 3: The office to be established in MAFF for outreach and support to national and local level private
forest owners' associations will contribute, in total, approximately US $9,000 to their operational costs, in
Years 2 and 3: approximately US $4,500 each year. This small sum cannot be shown due to system
requirements, and is incorporated into the ForSBIC totals above.
- 60 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMANIA: Forest Development Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods, technical services and works will be done in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance
and training will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be
used. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business of the UN in
December 2001.
Procurement Responsibilities
Project Management Unit.
The Project Management Unit established at MAFF for the Bank/GEF-financed Biodiversity
Conservation Management Project would also serve as the Project Management Unit (PMU) for this
project. The PMU would be responsible for project coordination and implementation through MAFF at
the national level, and the NFA regional offices at the local level. The PMU will be responsible for
procurement of goods and consulting services at the national level (training and TA contracts), and will
help the NFA in this task at the local level. The PMU includes a qualified and experienced Procurement
Specialist. One more qualified and experienced procurement specialist would be added immediately
upon project effectiveness, to deal with the increased procurement activities under the FDP.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
The project includes procurement of goods, civil works, consultant services, technical services, and
incremental operating costs. A detailed procurement plan for these needs has been prepared and is
included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). During project implementation, the procurement plan
will be updated every six months.
The Project procurement arrangements are shown in Table A below.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods for Works, Goods, Consultant Services, and Technical
Servives
The following thresholds are proposed (the aggregates are given in the footnotes to Table A):
(a)    Goods and Equipment: Goods and equipment estimated to cost US $100,000 and more will be
procured through ICB. Goods estimated to cost less than US $100,000 each may be procured through
international shopping on the basis of three written quotations from two different countries or through
IAPSO of the United Nations Development Program. There is no international shopping planned. Small
contracts for supplies and minor equipment estimated to cost less than US $50,000 each may be procured
under national shopping on the basis of three written price quotations from local suppliers.
(b)    Civil Works: Civil works estimated to cost US $1.0 million or more shall be procured on the
- 61 -



basis of ICB and contracts below US $1.0 million may be procured on the basis of national competitive
bidding (NCB).
NCB would be acceptable subject to the conditions that a point system of evaluation will not be used;
domestic preference will not be applied; international bidders will not be excluded from bidding; and the
draft NCB bidding documents will be prepared and submitted to the Bank for review and no-objection
before any NCB tender is issued. No bids will be rejected at the bid opening. All bids submitted on or
before the deadline for submission of bids will be opened and read out at public bid opening; local
bidders shall demonstrate availability of obtaining securities and reasonable access to credit; bid
evaluation criteria shall be pre-disclosed to bidders; and technical specifications shall be clearly written.
(c)    Consultant Services, Technical Services, TA and Training: Technical assistance and other
consulting services under all relevant project components will be procured in accordance with the Banks
Consultant Guidelines (revised January 1999) and by using the standard RFP and contract formats. All
plans for training and study tours will be developed by the PMU on a bi-annual basis, and submitted to
the Bank for agreement, prior to implementation. Fixed Budget selection method is recommended for
two of the large packages of consultant services planned for the public awareness campaign (Component
4). The Fixed Budget selection method for the public awareness campaign assignment is appropriate as
the terms of reference will be clearly defined. The first terms of reference include the development of
the design and delivery mechanisms of the public awareness campaign, and actual campaign
implementation. The second terms of reference include public relations (PR) products such as radio and
television time, brochures, etc. With particular reference to the PR products, the FB method is also
appropriate because the cost of videos and films, and their broadcasting via different media companies,
can have an extremely broad range. This selection method will compel the participating firms to obtain
competive prices for such products. Technical Services for procurement of new software packages for
the FMIS will be procured in accordance with the Information Technology guidelines. Consultant
services less than US $100,000 may be procured on the basis of Consultant Qualifications.
(d)   Incremental Operating Costs: The operating costs for PMU covering staff salaries (excluding
Government employees), supplies, utilities, vehicle and equipment operations and maintenance, etc.,
would be disbursed on the basis of annual budgets to be agreed with the World Bank, before any
expenditures are incurred. Recurrent costs for the association office in MAFF and the ForSBIC
components include staffing, office maintenance, vehicle operations and maintenance, publications,
promotions, audits, etc. Bank financing of these costs is on a declining basis, viz, Yr. 1=95%, Yr.
2=75%, Yr. 3=50%, Yr. 4=25%, and Yrs. 5 and 6=0.
Prior Review
The following prior review requirements would be applicable:
Goods and Civil Works
(a)   All ICB packages, including draft bidding documents, evaluation reports, contracts etc.
(b)   First IS, NCB and Minor Works package, including draft bidding documents, evaluation reports
and draft contracts.
- 62 -



Consulting Services
(c)    Consulting Firms: All TORs, draft RFPs, short lists, evaluation reports, and draft contracts for
consulting packages above US $100,000 each. For each contract estimated to cost US $200,000 or more,
after the technical proposal has been evaluated, the technical evaluation report would be submitted to the
World Bank for its review prior to the opening of the priced proposals.
(d)    For Individual Consultants: All TORs and Requests for Proposals, and draft contracts, for
consulting assignments above US $25,000 each.
Incremental Operating Costs
The Loan will finance on a declining basis part of the incremental operations costs of about US $2.82
million. These will be incurred in accordance with an annual budget that the PMU will prepare and
submit to the Bank for its approval before any expenditures are incurred.
Post Review
All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review will be subject to ex-post review, on a selective basis.
One out of ten contracts for goods, works, and consulting services will be subject to ex-post review.
Supervision missions will include a procurement specialist especially in the first year, whose main
responsibility will be to conduct ex-post reviews of the procurement process and documentation, and
provide his or her findings.
-63 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
, I     -    .             - -       -             e   i    ;                    -       r .Procrm tMethd
=E-.niue_gor r .Iy _ _.           NCB          -Other          .B.F     ToalCost
I~j6endiltiari  t goJN""'B
1. Works                              13.42            0.10           0.00          3.90        17.42
(13.42)           (0.10)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (13.52)
2. Goods                              3.04             0.23           0.31          0.01         3.59
(2.46)           (0.19)         (0.26)        (0.00)       (2.91)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           4.87          0.05         4.92
International and Local               (0.00)          (0.00)         (4.81)        (0.00)       (4.81)
Consulting Firms, including
training and audit
4. Technical Services                 0.00             0.00           1.60          0.00         1.60
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.30)        (0.00)       (1.30)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00             0.00           0.25          0.00         0.25
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Incremental Operating Costs                         0.00           2.96           1.15        4.11
()        j    (0.00)         (2.46)        (0.00)       (2.46)
Total                              16.46             0.33          9.99           5.11        31.89
1__   (15.88)           (0.29)         (8.83)        (0.00)      (25.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes:
a)Goods-Other: NS for multiple packages for non-computer office goods, field equipment, training
equipment, furniture, etc. ($0.343 million)
b) Technical Assistance Consultant-Other: Includes QCBS contracts ($0.708 million); CQ contracts
($0.481million); Fixed Budget contracts ($0.579 million); LCS contracts for audit services ($0.093 total)
c) Training and Individuals - Other: Includes Individual consultants contracts ($1.87 million); and training
programs ($0.392 million).
d) Incremental operating costs include management of the project, including services of contracted staff of
the project management office; maintenance of hardware and software, office equipment, and vehicles
under multiple components; and (iii) operations of two of the beneficiaries (associations office and
ForSBIC) on a declining basis.
Works N.B.F. Note: this amount is for designs and approvals needed prior to undertaling road construction, and
VAT as construction progresses. This will be the responsibility of the NFA.
-64 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                       ''Contats      ujett
Threshold                   Procurementr                 PrIr Review
.Expenditure Category-          (U    hus     nds)                                           Stlthod n(U i uiii--i -s)
1. Works                        >or equal to 1,000                  ICB                          12.95
<1,000                        NCB                           0.1
2. Goods                        > or equal to 0.100                 ICB                          3.95
<0.050                         NS                           0.03
3. Services: Local and          > or equal to 0.200                QCBS                          0.71
Intemational                    > or equal to 0.200             QCBS (FB)                        0.58
Consultants, Technical                <0.100                      LCS/CQ                         0.00
Assistance, and                                                      Ind                         0.40
Training
4. Services: IT Services        > or equal to 0.100                 ICB                           1.59
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US $20.31 million or
63.7% of total project
cost
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four months in the first year of
project implementation, and then twice a year months (includes special procurement supervision for
post-review/audits)
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
The PMU will be responsible for implementing the project, including procurement. Specifically, the PMU will:
(i) appoint a second procurement officer, with suitable educational background and experience in procurement and familiarity with World Bank
procurement guidelines, before project effectiveness;
(ii) Around the loan effectiveness period, hold a project launch workshop (with the Bank) for all government officials involved in project
implementation. During the project launch workshop, adequate time will be spent on procurement training, the procurement book will be
discussed and explained, and a half-day session will be held for those responsible for procurement decision making under this project;
(iii) Establish a computerized monitoring system within six months of loan effectiveness;
(iv) Immediately after Board approval, the Bank staff will prepare a procurement book containing all procurement related documents, including
Standard Bidding Documents, both in hard and soft copies, and send it to the PMU. The contents of the procurement book will be discussed
during he project launch workshop.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: Country Procurement Assessment Report dated March
2001.
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by negotiations
Yes X No
- 65 -



Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop
March 2003
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice
January 2003
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business
Yes
No X Domestic Preference for Goods
Yes No X Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable
Yes    No X
Retroactive financing
Yes X    No     Explain: The PMU needs to begin to design the Public Awareness campaign in advance of project effectiveness.
Advance procurement
Yes    No X   Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored through progress reports and
supervision missions. At least one supervision mission per year will include a procurement specialist, who will be responsible for updating the
procurement plan, and conducting ex-post reviews. His/her findings will be included in the supervision reports for monitoring their implementation.
Co-financing: n/a
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Naushad Khan, Sr. Procurement Specialist, Ext. 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: A project officer in the Resident Mission would be responsible for helping to
supervise project implementation and would provide procurement support, in which she/he will have received training.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-66 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The project will finance civil works, goods and equipment, technical services, consulting services, and
the incremental operating costs of the PMT. The allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C, which
also indicates Bank financing by expenditure category. The project will be executed over a period of six
years during which the full loan amount of US $33.33 million will be disbursed. The expected closing
date for the project will be June 30, 2008. Disbursement in the early project period is expected to be
based on the Bank's existing disbursement method (direct payment and reimbursement against full
documentation and Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)). FMR based disbursements will not be
considered. Retroactive financing will be available for eligible expenditures up to US $200,000 from the
Consultant's Services and Training category, and up to US $50,000 from the Incremental Operating Costs
(of the PMT) category, in Table C below.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category i     Amount in US$miIion         Financing Percentage-
1) Civil Works                            12.70                       80%
2) Goods                                  3.00          100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3) Consultant Services, including         3.00          100% of foreign expenditures; 80% of
training and audit services                                     local expenditures
4) Technical Services                     2.35                        80%
5) Incremental Operating Costs
a) other than for Part C of the Project   2.40                        80%
I /                                                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
b) for the ForSBIC under Part C of the    0.25          95% until July 31, 2004; 75% until July
Project                                                31, 2005,; 50% until July 31, 2006; 25%
until July 31, 2007; and 0% thereafter
6) Unallocated                            1.30
Total Project Costs                       25.00
Front-end fee        0.25
Total                                     25.25
Note 1/: This category includes: a) operating costs for PMU covering staff salaries (excluding
Government employees), supplies, utilities, vehicle and equipment operations and maintenance, etc; b)
vehicle operations and maintenance for the Forest Inspectorate under Component 1, and the National
Forest Administration, for protected areas, under Component 2; and c) some of the costs of computer
systems maintenance under Component 1.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Requests for reimbursement and replenishments to the Special Account may be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for the following items:
*   Goods and technical services: contracts amounting to less than US $100,000 per contract.
*   Works: contracts amounting to less than US $ 1,000,000 per contract.
- 67 -



* Consulting services-firms: contracts amounting to less than US $100,000 per contract.
* Consulting services-individuals: contracts amounting to less than US $25,000 per contract.
* Training and operating costs: all contracts.
Full documentation in support of the SOE will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after the
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
was made. This information would be made available for review by World Bank missions during project
supervision and by auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain, and operate, under
conditions acceptable to IBRD, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in a bank acceptable to
IBRD. The initial allocation to the special account will be limited to US $0.5 million. The initial
allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US $3.0 million once aggregate
disbursements of US $1.0 million are reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal applications.
Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis, or at least every three months, and
must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The special
account will be audited annually by independent auditors and the audit report submitted to the Bank for
review and approval within six months after the end of the Government's fiscal year. Project accounts
will be operated for discrete activities and funded from the special account based on disbursements
applications signed by the authorized officials.
Financial Management
1. Executive Summary and Conclusion
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken in December 2001
and revised in October 2002 to determine whether the financial management arrangements within the
PMU are acceptable to the Bank. It is concluded that the systems, procedures and staff within the Project
Management Unit (PMU) satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements
A summary of financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
Financial Management Assessment  Rating       Comments
1. Implementing Entity (PMU)     Satisfactory  Core staff is already in place
2. Funds Flow                    Satisfactory  Same FF as for the Bio-Diversity project
3. Staffing                       Satisfactory  Experienced project management and
financial team
4.Accounting Policies and Procedures  Satisfactory  An operational manual has been prepared
5. Intermal Audit                 NA
6. External Audit                 Satisfactory  Auditors acceptable to the Bank to be
selected.
7. Reporting and Monitoring       Satisfactory  PMU to prepare FMRs as required by the
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ B an k .
8. Information Systems            Satisfactory  A FM system acceptable to the Bank is in
place.
Overall Financlal Management     Satisfactory
Rating                           __    _   ]                                     I
Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires are included in the project files.
-68 -



2.     Project Description Summary
The FDP will assist MAFF to: (a) establish systems to ensure sustainable management of private forest
lands, through building of the capacity of the Department of Forests and its Forest Inspectorate,
supporting the development of private forest owners associations, and establishing a forest management
information and monitoring system; (b) mitigate the consequences of restitution on the management of
State forest lands by assisting NFA to maintain, develop and finance its important role in managing
protection forests, and reduce the environmental impacts and improve the economic efficiency of
managing State production forests through development of the forest road network; (c) support increased
productivity and competitiveness of forest industries, through establishing and operating a Forest Sector
Business Information Center; (d) build public support for sustainable forest management by
implementing a public awareness program targeting key stakeholders with emphasis on new forest land
owners and their associated communities; and (e) provide technical support for project management and
monitoring.
3.     Country Financial Issues
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania will be carried out during
FY03. Based on country experience, the two main generic risks are: (i) Liquidity problems associated
with banks. The banking system in Romania is still perceived as potentially sensitive to liquidity
problems. Despite a certain degree of restructuring and "cleaning" of the banking sector, the systemic
risk is still perceived as significant; and (ii) Fraud and corruption. Concems have been raised with regard
to fraud, waste and abuse of donor fimds in the region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is
principally in the area of procurement. To mitigate these concems, the following actions will be taken:
(i) The special account for this project will be opened in the same bank that holds the SA for the on going
BCMP. No problems were encountered in the operation of the SA under BCMP; and (ii) The PMU
established for the implementation of BCMP, will also implement this project. The PMU is well-versed
in Bank procedures and a financial management system acceptable to the Bank is in place. The auditors
for the BCMP issued a clean opinion on the project accounts for 2001, and the borrower is in
compliance with all audit covenants. The BCMP financial management system has been modified to
accommodate the FDP accounts. During Negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower to
retain an audit firm acceptable to the Bank.
4.     Financial Management System Assessment
4.1    Project Management and Coordination
A project implementation unit, already exist in the MAFF. This PMU is responsible for the
implementation of the Bio-diversity project. It has been agreed that this PMU will also carry out all
administrative and implementation functions for the Forestry project. A project financial management
system acceptable to the Bank was established at the PMU by the firm Arthur Andersen, for the
Bio-diversity project. This system has been modified to keep the project accounts for the Forestry
project. An accounting procedures manual was developed for the Bio-Diversity project. This document
has been modified to incorporate activities related to the Forestry project. All necessary steps have been
taken to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank policies (OP/BP 10.02).
4.2 Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
- 69 -



The PMU has a core staff of a Director, procurement officer and an accountant The PMU accountant is
well versed in Bank procedures in managing the on going BCM project and in June of 2001 attended the
Bank sponsored Financial Management Seminar in Turin. No additional training is required at this time.
The accountant has been trained on the software currently operating in the PMU.
4.3   Accounting and Internal Controls
The PMU has taken all necessary steps to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank
policies (OP/BP 10.02). This include the establishment of proper accounting procedures and internal
controls, which has been documented in an operational manual.
4.4    Computerized Accounting Systems
A project financial management system acceptable to the Bank was established at the PMU by the firm
Arthur Andersen, for the Bio-Diversity project. This system has been modified to keep the project
accounts for the Forest Development Project. The initial system was designed to meet all Bank
requirements and is able to keep accounts as required by the local legislation and to produce FMRs as
required by the Bank. No significant weaknesses have been noted.
4.5   Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
The audit for the Bio-diversity project was conducted by Pricewaterhouse Coopers. An un-qualified
opinion was issued. No major issues were noted in the management letter. The Borrower is in
compliance with all audit covenants Since the same PMU will be providing administrative support for
both projects, it makes sense to have the audit for the Forestry Project also be carried out by
Pricewaterhouse and Coopers. During Negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower to retain
an accounting firm acceptable to the Bank, to audit the Forestry project accounts, Audited financial
statements for the project would be sent to the Bank within six months after the end of every fiscal year.
The TOR for the audit has been agreed with the PMU.
4.6   Financial Manual
Operational procedures and guidelines for overall project management, including financial management
was documented in an Operational Manual for the Bio-Diversity project, encompassing all levels of
project management and administration. Given that the same PMU will manage the Forestry project, the
manual was modified to include the procedures for the new project. The Manual includes, apart from
other administrative procedures, financial management procedures and staffing, identification of
accounting and auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting and monitoring,
procurement procedures, and procedures for cash management.
4.7    Conclusion
It is concluded that the project meet the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
5.    Financial Flows
A special account will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank for Bank funds. A local
bank account will be opened for counterpart contributions, which will be transferred to this account from
the state budget. All contracts will be concluded by the PMU. The PMU will prepare all the relevant
- 70 -



documents and obtain the required clearances.
6.     Financial Monitoring Reports
The PMU will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the funds
provided. The PMU will be responsible for producing the appropriate financial monitoring reports
(FMRs) and preparing FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMR fornats have been agreed with the PMU.
The FMRs will include:
*   Project Sources and Uses of Funds
*   Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*   Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement
*   Project progress reporting
*   Procurement reports
7.     Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed FDP is considered a moderate-risk project. A
summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:
Risk Assessment
H    S    M    N   Comments
1. Inherent Risk
Romania                            X             Financial management framework of the public
sector is weak
Project Implementation Unit             X        The PMU is staffed with experienced professionals..
Project                                 X        The project is well conceived. The Government has
demonstrated a high level of commitrent.
Overall Inherent Risk                   X        The project is implemented by the PMU and not a
government agency, as a result the project is
ring-fenced. The overall risks are moderate.
2. Control Risk                              _
I. Implementing Entity                  X        PMU staff well versed in Bank procedures, having
dealt with Bank projects.
2. Funds Flow                           X        Similar for the on-going Bio-Diversity Project
3. Staffing                             X        Qualified and experienced staff are already on board.
4. Accounting Policies and              X        An operational manual encompassing procedures and
Procedures                                       controls has been prepared.
5. Internal Audit                       X        NA
6. External Audit                       X        Auditors acceptable to the Bank will be appointed.
7. Reporting and Monitoring             X        FMRs acceptable to the Bank will be prepared by the
PMU
8. Information Systems                 X         A system acceptable to the Bank is in place
Overall Inherent Risk                  X
H - High     S - Substantial     M - Moderate        N - Negligible or Low
- 71 -



8.    Disbursements
Disbursements from the Loan will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the
Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account). The proceeds of the World Bank Loan
will be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the
MEPP through the PMU will establish, maintain and operate a special account under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. The option to move to a FMR based disbursements will not be
considered.
9.     Special account.
To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the bank, a special accounts in US dollars in a commercial bank. The selection
process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank will follow the Bank's Disbursement Handbook
procedures. The bank would, upon request, make an initial deposit of US$500,000 to the special
account. Applications for the replenishment of the account will be submitted at least every three months
or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, which ever occurs earlier. The necessary
documentation, the special account bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement will
support the replenishment application
10.   Financial Covenants
The following covenant relates to financial matters:
*   The Government will cause the PMU to have its records, accounts and financial statements audited
each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2003;
*   The PMU will submit quarterly FMRs, starting with the first quarter after Loan Effectiveness.
11.   Supervision Plan
The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the field based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Audit reports of the project will be reviewed and issues
identified and followed up. The field based FMS would monitor the agreed action plan to ensure
appropriate actions have been implemented by the PMU.
Implementation Schedule
The project will be implemented over a six-year period.
- 72 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: Forest Development Project
roj et- Schediue                                            01           r Plannedi - ; Acual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     21                          23
First Bank mission (identification)            11/17/1999                   11/17/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    08/15/2001                   10/15/2001
Negotiations                                   12/03/2001                   10/30/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/30/2002                  03/21/2003
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry
Preparation assistance:
Fortech (Dames and Moore), UK
Project Management, Ireland
Environmental Resources Management (ERM), UK
Intergroup Engineering, Romania
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
John Fraser Stewart               Sr. Biodiversity and Natural Resources Specialist - Team Leader
David A. Bontempo                 Operations Analyst
Marjory-Anne Bromhead             Sector Manager, Quality Assurance
Jimn Douglas                      Lead Forestry Specialist - Peer Review
Gerhard Deiterle                  Sr. Forestry Specialist
Maria Amelina                     Social Scientist
Benoit Bosquet                    Economist
Kerstin Canby                     Environmental Specialist
Gottfried Ablasser                Portfolio Manager, Quality Control
Nicholay Chistyakov               Senior Disbursement Officer
Hiran Herat                       Financial Specialist
Elly Gudmunsdottir     .          Legal Counsel
Doina Rachita                     Operations Officer
Dan Petrescu                     External Relations Officer
Naushad Khan                      Procurement Specialist
Arben Maho                       Procurement Specialist
Peter Dewees                     Lead Environment Specialist - Team Leader
Daria Goldstein                   Legal Counsel
- 73 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA Forest Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.     Project Description
2.     Project Costs
3.     Procurement Arrangements
4.     Disbursement and Financial Management
5.     Implementation Arrangements
6.     Economnic and Financial Analysis
Annexes:
1.     Environmental Assessment (October 2001)
2.     Environmental Assessment Update (September 2002)
3.     Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
4.     Terms of Reference for Staff and Individual Consultants
5.     Technical Specifications
6.     List of Project Preparation Technical Reports
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* ECSSD Working Paper No. 18, "Romania Forest Sector - Status, Values and the Need for Reform"
* Procurement Assessment
* Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
*   Initial Report on Environmental Aspects of the Forest Roads Component
* Department of Forestry, Forest Management Information Monitoring System (FMIMS)
Requirements and Specification Overview
* Preliminary Institutional Needs Assessment
* Forest Sector Business Information Center (ForSBIC) Proposal
*   Economic and Financial Analysis of the Forest Development Project
* Environmental Assessment for Project Preparation
* Harvesting and Transport Overview
* Forest Roads, Outline Design and Construction Guidelines
* Social Report
*   Public Communications Program
*Including electronic files
-74-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: Forest Development Project
04-Nov-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                          dIsbursernents
Proje ID      FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig   Frn Revd
P067575       2003 PSAL2                                         300.00     0.00                0.00      0.00    167.56    .167.56     0.00
P069679       2003 PPIBL                                          18.60     0.00                0.00      0.00     18.60      0.00      0.00
P065          2002 AG POLLUTION CONTROL (GEF)                     0.00      0.00                5.15      0.00      4.93      0.17      0.00
P057960       2002 RURAL DEV (AF #1)                             40.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     39.80      -0.20     0.00
P068808       2002 SDF2(APL)2)                                   20.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     19.50      -0.50     0.00
P008783       2001 SOCSECTDEV(SSD)                               50.o0      0.00                0.00      0.00     49.70     17.09      0.00
P056891       2001 RURALFN(APL #)                                80.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     80.00      7.13      0.00
P056337       2000 MINE CLOSURE                                  44.50      0.00                0.00      0.00     38.83     32.80      0.00
P008797       2000 HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                          40.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     10.53      0.93     0o00
P065041       2000 TRADE&TRANS FACI INSEEUR                      17.10      0.00                0.00      0.00     13.98      -3.12     0.00
P043882       2000 AGRSUPPORTSERVS                               11.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      9.26      4.16      0.00
P059284       1999 CULTURAL HERITAGE                              5.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      3.76      3.76      0.64
P039251       1999 PIBL                                          25.00      0.00                0.00      1.10     1Z99      14.09      0.00
P044176       1999 BIODIV CONSV MrAT (GEF)                        0.00      0.00                5.50      0.00      3.28      2.75      0.00
P008788       1998 TELECOMMUNICATION                             30.00      0.00                0.00      7.00     1Z44      19.44     11.57
P034213       1998 GENL CADASTRE                                 25.50      0.00                0.00      0.00     21.81     18.81      2.99
P044614       1998 SCHOOLS REHA3ILrTAT1ON    T                   70.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     19.25     16.79      -2.34
P055495       1998 CHILD WELFARE REFORM                           5.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      0.83      0.83      0.00
P039250       1997 SECONDROADS                                   150.00     0.00                0.00      0.00     19.05      5.82      0.00
P008794       1996 POWER SECTOR REHAB                            110.00     0.00                0.00     33.50     58.10     91.60     91.55
P036013       1996 RAILWAY                                       120.00     0.00                0.00      0.00     16.55     16.55     -2.36
P008776       1995 EMPLYMT & SOC PROTECTION (ESSP)               55.40      0.00                0.00      0.00     25.01     25.01      0.00
P008m         1994 PETROL SECT REH                               175.60     0.00                0.00      0.00     43.28     43.28     -81.17
Total:    1392.70      0.00              10.65      41.60     689.04    149.65     20.88
- 75 -



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity  Quasi   Parfic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               Ambro                         4.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.76    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998/02            Banc Post                     0.00    0.00    10.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    10.00    0.00
2001               Banca Roraneasca              5.92    0.00     0.00    0.00    5.92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Bilstein Compa                1.27    0.00    0.00     1.27    1.27   0.00     0.00    1.27
1996               Danube Fund                   0.00    1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.80    0.00    0.00
1998               Demir Romania                 2.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Efes Brewery                  5.56    0.00    0.00    3.00     5.56   0.00     0.00    3.00
1998               Garanta                       0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.30     0.00    0.00
2001               ICME                         14.89    0.00     0.00    0.00    5.96    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Krupp Co-pa                   4.10    0.00    0.00     1.76   4.10     0.00    0.00    1.76
2002               MFI MFB Romania               0.00    2.03     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.03    0.00    0.00
1997/00            Mobil Rom                     1.77    0.00    0.00     2.36    1.77    0.00    0.00    2.36
1997               Rambox                        1.05    0.00    2.00     0.00    1.05    0.00    2.00    0.00
1994/98/01         Romlcase                      4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       45.46     4.43   12.00    8.39    34.53    4.13   12.00    8.39
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               Kronospan Rom                   30.20     0.00      0.00     45.73
Total Pending Commitment:       30.20      0.00     0.00     45.73
-76-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ROMANIA: Forest Development Project
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central   middle-
Romanla       Asla   Inco= e     Development dlamond'
2001
Population. mid-year (mIlilons)                      22.4       475     2,164                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  1,720     1,960     1.240
GNI (Adas method, USS bllilons)                      38.6       930     2.677
Average annual growth, 1998-01
Populatlon (X)                                       -0.2       0.1       1.0     G                 \
Labor force (IX)                                      0.2       0.6       1.2     GNI                  >Gro5s
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (6 ofpopulation below national poverty line)  30
Urban population (X of total population)              55         63       46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      70         69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              19         20       33
Child malnutritlon (X of children under 5)             ..        ..        11          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X of population)   58        90       8o
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                   2          3        15
Gross primary enrollment (3 ofschool-age population)  104       102       107             Roman/a
Male                                                105       103       107             Lower-middle-ncome group
Female                                              103       101       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economice ratloal
GDP (US$ bililons)                            ..     28.8      38.2      38.7
Gross domestc lnvestmentUGDP                36.3     28.0      19.7      21.9                    T
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..    17.6      33.0      33.5                    Trde
Gross domestic savfngslGDP                    ..     24.1      14.0      13.8
Gmss national savingslGDP                      ..    24.9      15.5      15.9
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -3.5      -3.6      46.0     Domestic                   In,ste\
Interest payments/GDP                                 0.0       1.4       1.6     savingsVetent
Total debtWGDP                                 ..     7.4      26.6      28.7     svn
Total debt servlce/exports                  15.2      2.4      18.8      18.8
Present value of debUGDP                      ..       ..      26.2      28.7
Present value of debUexports                  ..       ..      80.3      80.4
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01    2000       2001   2001-05
(averege annual growth)
GDP                                 -0.1     0.4      1.8       5.3       4.8              Romania
GDP per capita                     -0.5      0.7      1.9       5.4       5.2              Lower-rniddle-ncome group
Export of goods and services         ..      9.8     24.1      10.6       8.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Inveatment and GDP (%)
(3 of GDP)                                                                        3
Agriculture                                 16.4     18.3      12.5      15.0
Industry                                    56.6     45.1      34.1      34.6     15
Manufacturing                                .        ..        ..       .. o
Services                                    27.0     38.6      53.4      50.4    -        6                    00   01
Private consumption                         53.7     60.7      79.0      79.9
General govemment consumption               12.3     15.2       6.9       6.3                    GDI    "--   GDP
Imports of goods and servlces                 ..     21.5      38.7      41 6
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (3)
(averaep annual gtowth)
Agriculture                                  2.1     -1.3     -18.2      21.2    30
Industry                                    -1.7     -0.1       6.2       7.4    20
Manufacturing                                ..      ..         .
Services                                              0.7       3.7       1.7 '
Private consumption                          1.1      2.4       0.1       6.5     0       w    7    x    99    00    1
General govemment consumption                1.1     -0.4      15.8      -1.9   .10
Gross domestc investment                      ..     -3.2      20.5      18.5                 Exporta       lnIports
Imports of goods and services                 ..      9.1      28.1      17.5
Note: 2001 dati are prnirrinary estrmates.
The diamDnds show tour key indiators In the Oun7ry (in bold) comparnd with Its incongroup average, if data are rrissing, the diamrond wilt be inconrplete.
- 77 -



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     fnflafUon I%)
Domestc prikes
(% change)
Consumer prices                              3.1    170.2      45.7     34,5    160
Implicit GDP deflator                               195.0      44,1     37.0     l' 
GovenmentRfnance                                                                 60
(% of GDP, Includes curent grants)
Current revenue                                ..    38.9      31.2     30.5             x    37    BB    os    oo    01
Current budget balance                         ..     6.3      -0.7      0.0                 GDP delator   e   CPI
Overall surplus/defidt                        ..      0.3      -4.0     -3.3
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and Import lbvels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                       11,180    4,266    10.367   11,385     MOOD
Textiles                                     ..     634     1,858     1.516
Metals                                       6. 21            822      784     15.0
Manufacures                                  .    2,636     6,984    8,122     %                                   _
Total Imports (clf)                                 5.793    13,055   15,552     10
Food                                         .      785       932    1,207      6__
Fuel and energy                                   2,626     1,893    2,237
Capital goods                                 .     980     3.767    4,326        0
Export prIce Index (1995=100)                         93        98       96            es   90   By   98   go       o
Import price Index (1995=100)                 ..     101        91        88                *Emport      *mlrqorts
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                        ,,      92       108       110
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001      Currenta-count balancetoGDP I(%)
(US$ mWillons)
Exports of goods and services             13,462    4,946    12,133   13,379      0
Imports of goods and services             13,278    6,191    14,071   16,557
Resource balance                             184   -1,245    -1,938   -3,178     *2
Net Income                                -1,017      15      -281      -282     -4
Net current transfers                          0     218       880     1,143        I     I.             "      I-
Current account balance                    -833    -1,012    -1,359   -2,317
Financing Items (net)                       596     1,199     2,285    3,801
Changes in net reserves                     238     -187       -926   -1,484     -10
Memo:
Reserves Induding gold (USS millibns)         ..    1,010     3,396    4,880
Conversion rate (DEC, ioca/JUS$)              ..     76.4  20,954.1  29,808.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                   CompodUlon of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      10,447    2,135    10,177   11,124
IBRD                                     1,143       3      1,898    1,876
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                              A 1,076
Total debt service                         2,057     120      2,344    2,607                  Zi
IBRD                                      108        0       195      204                                    c:387
IDA                                         0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Oflclal grants                              0        0        36       103                                   D: 1266
Official creditors                        319        3       510       ill
Private creditors                         715      115       836      931         F: 
Forelgn direct Investment                   0       40      1,036    1,154                 '               E: 1.051
Portfolio equity                            0        0       102      790
World Bank program
Commitments                               205      330        68       150     A-IBRD                     E-Bilataml
Disbursements                             381        3       384       132     B-IDA    D-Otherjmultilateral  F-PrIvata
Prlncipalrepayments                        45        0        91       101     C-IMF                      G-Short-term
Net flows                                 336        3       293        31
Interest payments                          63        0       104       103
Net transfers                             273        3       189       -72
uevelopment tcononm1s                                                                                             vuxwuz
- 78 -



Additional
Annex 11
Romania Forest Development Project
Social Implications and Institutional Means of Engendering Socially Desirable Change
1.      Changes in forest ownership and management are likely to affect the Romanian population at
large as well as a range of identifiable stakeholders, including communities living in forested areas, new
forest owners, government and private sectors. Attachment 1 provides a summary of stakeholder interests
in changes in forest ownership and management, and matches these with project interventions aimed at
enhancing the positive and diminishing the negative effects of forest sector reform.
Major Stakeholder Groups
2.      Institutional analysis undertaken as part of project preparation confirmed that the following
major categories of stakeholder are likely to be directly affected by developments supported under the
project:
(a) New private forest owners - Approximately 600,000 private individuals, communities, local
authorities and other types of institution are expected to receive forest ownership rights in the process
of forest restitution. Collective forest owners include municipalities, communas, churches and
educational establishments. Conseqeuntly, "new private forest owners" is a diverse group of
individuals and collectives from various strata of the Romanian population, and a variety of economic
and professional backgrounds, living in both rural and urban areas. Following restitution, the new
owners are expected to benefit from forest assets in two ways. First, cost effective management of
private forests could provide a sustainable income, while helping preserve and enhance the value of
private forests making forest ownership financially beneficial in perpetuity. Second, development of
forest-based industries spurred by private initiative of forest owners will help increase returns from the
restituted forests.
(b) Rural communities living in or near forested areas stand to benefit from the expected increase
in business activity in the forest sector, a welcome change from the depressed economic climate in the
majority of forested rural districts (with the exception of popular ski and eco-tourism areas).
Therefore, the expected social impact of change is a decrease in rural poverty and unemployment.
However, there is also a potential danger of increased inequality and dislocation associated with loss
of access to forest products and firewood by a small fraction of rural population, the poorest rural
inhabitants, in the possible event that new forest owners deprive their neighbors of the rights to gather
forest products in private forests.
(c) Employees of National Forest Association (NFA), is a govemment agency with both public and
commercial responsibilities that currently manages both commercial and protected forests in Romania.
Following restitution of large areas of Romania's forests, a significant number of NFA employees are
expected to face redundancies This is likely to cause short-term distress and dislocation for redundant
NFA employees, unless mitigating measures are implemented.
Project Support for Socially Desirable Change
3.      Specific measures built into the project design that are aimed at enhancing the positive and
mitigating the negative social effects of forest reforms include:
- 79 -



(a)     For new private forest owners: support of cost effective management of new private
forests through provision of extension services, and support for establishment and management of
forest owners associations. Prospective forest owners have little experience in forest management
and, in some instances, perceive state forest management authorities as non supportive of the
restitution process. This perception creates an atmosphere of mistrust that is not conducive to the
transfer of Romania's excellent technical skills in forest management from the state to the new
private owners. Forest owners associations will empower forest owners to interact with the state
forest management agencies from a more secure and better informed position, allowing for more
effective lobbying and other collective action. Attachment 2 describes the innovative community
driven approach that will be implemented by the project in order to ensure that the newly-created
forest owners associations will be truly representative of the interests of their members.
(b)      For rural poor who are dependent on harvest of forest products: The project will
work with local forest associations to help develop approaches to negotiate and establish
mechanisrns allowing those rural poor who depend on forest products for an important share of
their livelihood to continue sustainable harvesting of non-timber forest products and firewood from
private forests.
(c)     For NFA employees: During the first year of project implementation, the project will
support analysis to identify the needs for reform of NFA in order to enable it to best address its
changing role. The analysis will include identification of future staffing needs and will propose
measures to mitigate the social impacts of staff redundancy, including retraining provision of
training to enable NFA staff take advantage of new employment opportunities in private forest
management and regulation.
Measurements of Social Impact
4.       Institutional analysis, undertaken by the project nationwide, to show thecosts and benefits of
changes in forest ownership and management will be complemented by more detailed social and
institutional analyses of the most directly affected populations, with focus on the inhabitants of forested
areas. Data collected during the analyses will serve as a baseline for monitoring and evaluation the effects
of forest restitution in general and of the project-related activities in particular. Multilevel design of the
analysis will be based on village level social and economic data collected continuously throughout the
project and on a household level assessment of the sources of income and changes in intra-village
interactions. Surveys will be carried out it the beginning, at mid-term and at the end of the project. The
three different levels of analysis (individual, household, and community) will allow for monitoring the
social effects of changes in forest property rights both at a household and communal levels. Tools and
methods that will be used to undertake the analyses are described in Attachment 3.
Institutional Responsibility for Sociatly Significant Project Interventions
5.      The project will work directly with organizations and institutions at several different
administrative levels - national, regional, and local - to achieve the social goals identified above. The
administrative breakdown of socially significant activities included in the project design is as follows:
(a) at the national level, the project will:
(i) Assist the Department of Forests (DoF) and the National Forest Administration (NFA) in
- 80 -



assessing its staff needs and in retraining core personnel and employees who are scheduled for
redundancy. Assistance to the DoF will increase the capacity of civil servants to better interact
with new private forest owners, rural communities and other key stakeholders. Assistance to
the NFA will diminish dislocation associated with redundancies;
(ii) Build the capacity of national private forest owners associations, to better equip them to
establish regional and local branches and assist forest owners to organize and form
associations in order to share the responsibility and cost of managing areas of forests with
multiple owners. These associations will also serve as a source of information on sustainable
forest management techniques and practices and will provide a vehicle for communication
between owners and forest sector industries. These activities are expected to lead to higher
level of civic participation of forest owners and increased revenues derived from forest
management;
(iii) Assist forest based businesses in increasing their efficiency and profitability through
provision of business advisory services. This will increase employment opportunities in forest
and forest related sectors, and will allow private and public owners to derive higher revenues
from their assets.
(iv) Organize a national public awareness campaign to improve the public image of NFA and
DoF, thereby mitigating social tensions associated with forest restitution and forest
management issues, as well as informing the community at large about opportunities for
revenue generation associated with sustainable management of private forest resources. The
campaign will strengthen the ability of the civil society to participate in a national discourse on
forest ownership and other forest sector issues.
(b)      At the regional level the project will assist in operationalizing regional branches of the
Forest Inspectorate, to provide extension services to new forest owners, thereby assisting with
dissemination of forest management expertise and developing constructive dialog between state
regulatory functions and forest stakeholder groups.
(c)      At the local level the project will:
(i) Finance rehabilitation and construction of forest roads, which will increase local
employment in the short-term and decrease costs of logging, thereby increasing revenue
returns to the sector in the long term; and
(ii) Support establishment of Associations of Local Forest Owners (ALFO) in poorer less
well-organized communities where significant areas of forest will be restituted. The impact of
new opportunities for income generation derived from sustainable management of newly
privatized forest lands is likely to be relatively large.
- 81 -



ATTACHMENT 1.: FORESTRY SECTOR STAKEHOLDERS AND THE SOCIAL IMPACT
OF FOREST RESTITUTION AND OF FDP-RELATED ACTIVITIES
STAKEHOLDERS          CURRENT INTEREST/ROLE IN              OUTSTANDING ISSUES                FDP MITIGATION AND SOCIAL
AND INSTITUTIONS             FORESTRY SECTOR                                                           IMPIUCATIONS
THAT REPRESENT
THEM
L GOVERNMENT
A. Mhilstry of        Supervises and regulates forest
Agriculture,          sector, manages state forests.
Food and Forests
1. Division of Strategy,
Policy, and Silvic
Legislation
a) General Directorate  Responsible for the execution of  Out of 4 directorates only I (Forest  The FDP will help design and iniplerent
of Forests (DoF)      forest sector supervision, regulation, Inspectorate) has received budget  training programs for DoF staff. The
and management.                  aflocation at the beginning of fiscal year, project will provide assistance with
creating clinnate of uncertainty and  developing communications and other
inability to plan activities in other  public relations skills. DoF staff will be
directorate.                         better equipped for interactions with new
private forest owners and with private
Current salary levels are not sufficient to economic actors in timber-related
recruit staff adequate to the mandated  industries. This adjustment of skill mix is
tasks. Skills available within the   likely to decrease social tension
directorates are not sufficient to succeed  surrounding regulatory government actions
in a market environment. Morale is low  in the forestry sector.
due to inferior funding and uncertainties
associated with the evolving status of
directorates and their ability to perform
tasks.
STAKEHOLDERS          CURRENT INTEREST/ROLE IN              OUTSTANDING ISSUES                FDP MITIGATION AND SOCIAL
AND INSTITUTIONS            FORESTRY SECTOR                                                             IMPUCATIONS
THAT REPRESENT
THEM
a) General Directorate of Forests (DoF) (continued)
Lower salaries, poor access to equipment,
and overall status as compared to NFA
will preclude DoF from adequately
supervising NFA and from interacting
with adequate professionalism with new
private owners and private economic
actors in timber sector.
b) Policy, Strategy &  Coordinates specific strategies fur  Staffing is currently insufficient to carry  The project will support institutional needs
Silvic Regime         various forest areas, harmonization of out the mandated functions.    assessment for the DoF
national forest legislation with EU
specifications, coordination of survey
system for forest protection,
realization of forest protection
82 -



2. Dirtorate of Regirne and Forest Inspectorte
a. Forest hnpectorate  Orpnizes and controls inspections of Operational procedures are not clearly  The project wil help strgthen the FI by
(1;1)                forests, rmonitors forest road  documnted, and cormiimication    pEoviding equipment necessary to
construction, inspects wood trading  channels between administrative levels  adequately fulfill its obligations, and will
activities, establishes and enforces  have not been established, prechlding the finance rental costs for independent office
hunting regimes, rnonitors      ispectorate fiom achieving legally  space for the Fl. The project wiDl help
afforestation of new lands.     defined goals. Proposed staffing of 300  government assess the staffing needs of the
Has 16 regional offices.       inspectors nationally is inadequate,  Fl and changes in these needs as forest
division into silvic districts is based on restitution progresses. FI staff will be
historical divisions not on the realities of offered training and study tours to gain
private forest ownership and the related expertise in private forest management.
change in relative woidoad among the  Besides the benefit of gaining updated and
districts. Inspectate office space and  imore mrketable skdlls, training in conflict
equipment are inadequate. Fl use of  resolution wiDl help Fl staff manage
offices within NFA may constitute  potential cmflict with private forest
conflict of interest Budget financing is  owners rnsre effectively.
ad hoc, annual allocation for the cment
year has not been established.
SrAKEHOLDERS         CURRENT INIEREST/ROLE IN            OUISTANDING ISSUES              FDP MITIGATION AND SOCIAL
AND INSTITUIONS            FORESTRY SECIOR                                                         IMPIICATIONS
THAT REPRESENT
THEM
b. Dirctoate of Private Coordinates national forest inventory, SkiDs for conducting cadastrl and public The project wil help develop skills in
Forest Marnamt       determines annual aDlowable cut,  awareness work are inadequate. Skills for supervision and monitoring of private
ronitors forest restitution, controls  monitoring of sustainable managment of forests and arrange for study tous
tinter auctions, approves harvesting private forests is not adequate either.  Effective application of newly acqured
conomanes, develops criteria for                                   skills in public interaction will lead to
afforestation and sustainable forest                               geater transparency during supervision
and monitoring activities, and wiDl help
decrease tension between new forest
owners and government officials.
c. Direcorate of     Adninisters Romania's hunting fund, Directorate of H & F has a dual reporting
Hunting and Fishing  approves rules for the estuiation of  function, to the Fl Branch office and to
game numbers and hunting quotas,  the Hunting and Fishing Directoate.
collects hunfing statistics.    Lack of established conrmuication
channdels makes the arrangement
ineffective. Conmection of the directorate
to its branch offices has been severed, as
10 branch offices have been subsumed
within the Forest Inspectorate.
-83 -



B. National Forest   A state-owned entity with both  NFA faces a number of systemic   FDP will finance a strategic review of
Administration (NFA) commercial and public good     problems and challenges:          NFA to assist in defining NFA's needes in
mandates. The Central Unit is  - Need to resluicture its functional  a number of areas, including organizational
composed of 36 Forestry Districts  organization in line with changed realities restructuing, increasing the efficency of
and 480 Local Forestry Units.  * Need to establish appropriate staffing  its profit generating activities, developing
levels                            its information systems, and establishing
Manages state forest land, and private * Need to make its commercial operations forest protected area networks. FDP will
forests on an agreement basis;  more profitable and more efficient  identify opportunities to retrain NFA staff
manages hunting and fishing areas;  * Lack of preparedness to address  who will be made redundant as a result of
processes and sells non-timber forest challenges associated with forest  recommendations for restructuring derived
products; is engaged in wood   restitution                        from the strategic review.
processing; and generates profits by - Inability to fund investment program for
selling timber and non-tmer forest  forest roads
products.                      - Need to adjust management of protected
areas to the challenges of a post-socialist
economy
STAKEHOLDERS         CURRENT INTERESTIROLE IN            OUTSTANDING ISSUES              FDP MITIGATION AND SOCIAL
AND INSTITUTIONS           FORESTRY SECTOR                                                        IMPLICATIONS
THAT REPRESENT
THEM
The NFA is undergoing restructuring In addition, NFA has image problems  A critical component of the project will be
B. NFA (continued)    which is expected to result in  with the future forest owners and with the the public awareness campaign, part of
redundancy of 1/3 of its work force  population at large. The former perceive which will inform the general public of the
NFA as opposing restitution and flying to public good function of NFA as well as its
limit the freedom of private owners to  desire and ability to serve the needs of
choose between private forest      private owners on a competitive basis.
management and the NFA. The latter
perceive NFA as corrupt and self serving,
taking advantage of its position as a
guardian and manager of national wealth.
Mayors at the communa level are  Mayors may not adequately represent  The FDP will facilitate the creation of
C. Local Governments representing communas in the issues interests of villagers in the matter,  Associations of Local Forest Owners so
of restitution of commonly owned  particularly interests of viliagers from  that communal 'bottom-up' institutions
forests.                       smaller villages in the communa.   could represent the owners in interactions
with local government. Existence of a
grass-roots civic organization will help the
communities better represent their interests
in interactions with local govermnents.
- 84 -



STAKEHOLDERS         CURRENT INTEREST/ROLE IN             OUTSTANDING ISSUES              FDP MITIGATION AND SOCIAL
AND INSTITUTIONS            FORESTRY SECTOR                                                        IMPLICATIONS
THAT REPRESENT
THEM
11. NEW FOREST       The legislation specifies 5 types of  The restitution process has been slow,  The project will assist forest owners, by
OWNERS               forest owners: (I) municipalities and delayed on a number of occasions for  supporting the national-level forest owners
communes; (2) private individuals,;  political reasons. There is an  association (APPR), and creating
(3) communal private ownership; (4) apprehension among forest owners that  associations of local forest owners
churches, educational institutions;  NFA will not relinquish monopoly over  (ALFOs), both of which will be used to
and (5) expatriate Romanians.  forest management and will continue to  represent economic and civic interests of
IndividuaUcommunal forest owners  manage private forests after restitution  forest owners in national and local fora.
are expected to come from diverse
socioeconomic backgrounds, from
both rural and urban settings. Their
primary interest is in speedy
completion of the restitution process
and establishment of a de-
monopolized regime of forest
management, allowing for both
private and public individuals/entities
to serve as forest managers.
A. Assodation of     An untrella orglnization        APPR does not have sufficient resmoes FDP will provide technical assistance to
Private Forest Ownen represeting all categories of private to fulfill its nandate. It also needs to  the APPRto develop a five year business
(APPI)               forest owners in Romaiia Its    increase and better organize its   plan, inchlding cash-flow analysis,
nandate is:                     rnbzership at the local level to achieve  identification of a menu of services APPR
Proration of awareness of  adequate financng firnmntnbership  will provide to its rnters, and a set of
forest ownership                fees and expand its oubach to new  actions to recruit nmers. Initially, FDP
Support for forest-related  private forest owners troughut the  will provide financing for equipnent and
legislation and its inplementation,  counrty. Lack of orgzed local level  staff to sustain basic institution building
and for developing the understanding rnenrbship precludes access to EU  activities. The actions are expected to
of rights and responsibilities of  SAPARD funds eamrnked for local  ensure long-term viability of APPR as an
private forest owners           forest owners associations.        active and well nanaged civic
Support for association                                      organizationr
mrrbers in forest muagrnt       APPR does not have a business
Consolidation of forest  development plan or a well-defined list
owners into local and conty    of activities it is plannfing to pursue.
associations
Porrmtion of sustainable use
of forest resources
- 85 -



STAKEHOLDERS         CURRENT INTERESTIROLE IN             OUTSTANDING ISSUES               FDP MMIGATION AND SOCIAL
AND INSSTTUTONS             FORESTRY SECrOR                                                         IMPLICATIONS
THAT REPRESENT
THEM
B Associations of    FDP will foster the creation of  New forest owners - particularly in poor FDP will contract an organization with the
local Forest Owners  ALFOs to facilitate comunuiity-level and disenfranchised areas - are not likely expertise in comnunity work necessary to
(ALFOs)              associations of individual and  to have sufficent skills to formr  mobilize forest owners to form associations
conmmon forest owners. ALFOs will: associations, which, in turn is likely to  in pilot areas during the first two years of
-      Consolidate small areas of  preclude them from accessing EU  the project Using the developed
forest into larger blocks to facilitate  SAPARD funds or fromn effectively  rethodology, FDP will then replicate the
nore efficient and sustainable  influencing state policy relating to forest techniques developed during the first phase
management;                    ownership. Absence of viable grass roots to facilitate the establishment of local
Provide forest nanagement organizations will complicate the  associations in areas where a high
planning, rnanagenent of forest  operation of APPR. Poolng resources and proportion of forests were restituted and
operations and sales of timber and  restituted forest plots will allow for viable where many new owners were created.
other non tirnter forest products  and sustainable forest managemnent which These actions are expected to mobilize
(NTFPs) through the use of private  would be difficult to organize and  comnunities arond the issues associated
consultants, nanagement companies coordinate on dispersed individual plots. with forest ownership, particularly in poor
or recruitment of professional staff,                              areas with low self-mobilzation record.
Obtain the necessary
approvals, inspections and
supervision required by the Forest
Inspeotorate;
Provide access to SAPARD
funding for technical support and
forest irniastructtre;
Liaise with other
organizations such as the national
APPR and Forest Sector Business
Information Center (ForSBIC);
Liaise with the broader local
conmmnity (non-forest owners,
municipal authorities etc.)
m. IMDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE SECTORS
A. Timber and Wood   Both timiber and processing industries A review has shown that both timber and A Forest Business Advisory Center
processing Industries  play an important role in the  processing industries operate below  (ForsBIC) will be created during project
Romanian economny. In the post-  capacity, inefficiently, and do not  implernentation, to provide comnpanies with
socalist period, their developrent  generate returns adequate to the potential a broad range of important infnonation for
has been sttuted by restrictive  of the sector. Coordination between  successful modernization, such as
legislation on land ownership, timber timber and processing industries is weak. information on the availability of credit,
trade and pricing, and by a legacy of The sector fails to generate employment production and management techniques,
outdated equipment and techmologies and budget revenue commnensurate with  narket opportunities within Romania and
its potential. Insufficient legal base in  abroad, and pricing of timber and wood
land ownership restricts investrent and  products. The expected result will be
overall modernization of the sector.  increased employment in the forestry
sector, particularly in SMEs, and increased
revenue for the budget from forest and
timber sectors.
-86 -



B. Tourism and       Tourism and touisrnirelated     The poplation in rnal ars, while   FDP, gether wihi tie GEF-finarced
service sectorN      industries are not adequately   nulmg efforts to build snmll-scale  Biodiversity Consetion  Managemnt
developed to take advata  of the  facilites to accormiodate turists, do not Pqect, will create rmdels for sustainable
cultral and national heritage of  have access to adequate resources to  forest nmnagenrt Clarification of
Romania. Tunsm in forest aras is invest into targe-sale development of  property nghts is likely to increase
very popularaurig domestic     touist facilities. Al the same time, dte  inveshtnsts in totismandtoist services.
toursis, but Ronania's touristic  is not enough legislation to regulate  ALFOs will assist their nmrrbers in
potenial is not sufficiently wel  constuction in protected areas   malrkng decisios about irestnnnt in
kniown outside of the country.                                     tourismrelated ventres, as well as in
leasing ter land to  treprers
interested in urism develqmmnt Both
actions are expected to inorease revenue
fiom forest ownrship and bring additional
resouroes into nura areas.
STAKEHOLDERS         CURRENT INTERESTIROLE IN             OUTSTANDING ISSUES               FDP MITIGATION AND SOCIAL
AND INSTrITUTIONS           FORESTRY SECTOR                                                         IMPLICATIONS
THAT REPRESENT
THEM
IV. COMMUNITIES      Communities living in areas adjacent The restitution process is likely to change ALFOs will be encouraged by the
LIVING IN AREAS      to forests have traditionally used  distribution of power over forest lands.  facilitators to address the issues of
ADJACENT TO          firewood and non-timber forest  There is a danger that access ofthe  traditional forest use, by establishing ru'es
FORESTS              resources. The poorer segments of the poorer segments of rural population to  and fees so that the potential for friction
rural population depend on wood  forest products will be restricted. While  and dislocation of the poorest is
from forests in winter, and on non-  there is an expected increase in  minimized. Business opportunities
timber forest products to supplement employment opportunities associated  facilitated by ForsBIC are expected to lead
their diets. Forest pastures are used,  with the clarification of property rights,  to growth of employment in rural areas,
often unsustainably, for cattle  in the short term, reduced access to forest which in turn is expected to positively
grazing.                        products could lead to dislocation and  affect the poorest and less-qualified
further impoverishment              workers.
In the short term FDP will provide
employment opportunities to the poorer
sections of rural population in the road
construction componert of the project
V. ROMANIAN           The Rornanian population is proud  The public currently perceives NFA  FDP will fund and organize a public
POPULATION            of its forests, and tourism in forested forest management practices as outdated awareness campaign at both national and
areas is vety popular. Since a large  and costly. There is a perception that  sub-national levels, particularly in forested
share of the population stands to  NFA is stallmg forest restitution and is areas. The campaign will disseminate
benefit from forest restitution, public not ready to relinquish its nanagenent information about NFA restruchring and its
discussion of issues associated with  of forests. There are also widespread  efforts to meet the mnany challenges of
forest restitution is active, and has a  perceptions of comrption within NFA  modern forest management The public
high profile.                                                     awareness campaign wil also dissemiinate
information about the opportunities
presented by private forest management
Importantly, the public awareness campaign
will allow for more inforred and more
active participation of the general public in
the issues pertaining to the forestry sector.
- 87 -



Attachment 2 Support for Establishment of Associations of Local Forest Owners (ALFOs)
1.     Under component one of the FDP, national private forest owners associations are to be
supported. An essential activity of these institutions will be to facilitate the establishment of regional
and local associations of forest owners and providing them with assistance to apply for grant funding
under the EU SAPARD measure 3.5. At the same time through the extension activities of the Forest
Inspectorate and Public Awareness (PA) campaign new forest owners will be made aware of the benefits
and responsibilities of forest ownership. Part of the PA campaign is specifically targeted to inform new
owners of the benefits of forning associations.
2.     Many of the new individual private forest owners, joint common owners and even some
municipal owners at the commune (village/small town) level will not have the experience or capacity to
be able to form a their own Association of Local Forest Owners (ALFO). The support provided by the
national associations will be limited It would not be sustainable or appropriate for national associations
to develop the skills and infrastructure to be able to give substantial help to the new owners in the
formation of associations. National associations will be able to provide technical and legal advice to the
new ALFOs. to technical and legal advice. In some areas where restitution has already taken place, some
joint common owners have experienced difficulty in organizing for management of their own forest. i.e.
they have not been able to elect a committee to make decisions let alone form associations with other
owners. Other areas have already formed associations prior to the forest being restituted and are already
looking to develop relationships with processors. There is, therefore, a wide range in the capabilities of
the new forest owners.
3.     Other projects active in the field of community development (notably the Rural Social
Development Fund) have developed effective techniques and expertise in establishing community
organizations that can address organizational issues similar to those faced by the new forest owners.
Consequently, under component 1, the project will implement a community development program to
assist new forest owners to organize and establish associations of local forest owners This initiative will
start as a pilot program that will develop and test appropriate methods that will be subsequently, be
replicated on a wider scale.
4.     Once up and running, ALFOs will be able to access further support from the MAFF, the Forest
Inspectorate and SAPARD. They will also develop and enhance their income generating potential from
the sale of forest products, so that the organizations will be financially self-sustaining. The critical point
in the process is the initial establishment.
5.     The role of the ALFO will be to:
*   Consolidate small areas of forest into larger administrative blocks to facilitate management;
* Provide forest management planning, and undertake management of forest operations, sales
of timber and other non timber forest products through the use of private consultants,
management companies or by recruiting other professional staff;
* Obtain the necessary approvals, inspections and supervision required by the Forest
Inspectorate;
* Provide a vehicle for access to SAPARD funding for technical support and forest
infrastructure;
* Liaise with other organizations such as the national associations and Forest Sector Business
Information Center (ForSBIC);
- 88 -



*   Liaise with local community (non-forest owners, municipal authorities etc.); and,
*   Develop and obtain funding for future opportunities based on forest resources, such
sawmills, processing of non timber forest products, tourism etc.
Key performnance indicators
*   Number of ALFOs formed and the area of forest under ALFO management;
*   Number of forest owners included in ALFO membership;
*   Number of, and area covered by, approved forest management plans prepared for ALFO
managed forests;
*   Quantity and value of timber sales from ALFO managed forests;
*   Number and value of successful applications for SAPARD funding; and,
*   Number and value of further forest based development schemes proposed and implemented
by the ALFOs.
Method
8.     During the first year of FDP implementation a consultant (will be contracted under the project to
undertake the community work necessary to establish associations of local forest owners in a pilot area
(at an appropriate level, i.e. county, district, branch to decided during implementation) during the first
two years of the project. The consultant will employ community development workers (CDWs) who will
work in the communities and facilitate ALFO formation. The techniques to be developed and applied
may vary depending on local circumstances and needs. The CDWs will therefore need to be
appropriately trained and resourceful. The consultant will:
(a) Select pilot areas according to criteria that will be further developed during the inception phase,
but will include areas where:
*   significant areas of forest being restituted to individuals, joint common ownership and local
communes;
*   there is a relatively high level of poverty; and,
*   there is limited access to support for community development.
(b) Train a cadre of community development workers in the objectives, purpose and methods of
establishing ALFOs (CDWs will already be skilled at working with communities);
(c) In the selected communities, undertake community development work to facilitate the fornation
of ALFOs. Preliminary assessments suggest that 16 ALFOs can covering an area of approximately
400,000 ha of forest It is difficult to quantify the area to be covered by the ALFOs as the ownership
patterns (and hence areas of and numbers of owners by county/district) will not be known until the
process of restitution has progressed further. The figure of 192,000 ha was derived by assuming that
a pragmatic and sensible size of forest for an ALFO to cover would be 4,000 ha, and that each CDW
would be able to facilitate the formation of 3 ALFOs. can be established in the first two years
(d) Monitor the progress of ALFO operations and support where necessary;
(e) During the first year, develop the procedures and processes required for replication for an
expanded program to establish additional ALFOs.
-89 -



Attachment 3 Social and Institutional Analyses and Monitoring
1.     Selected social indicators will be monitored throughout the life of the project to assess the effects
of changes in forest land ownership and management, as well as of project-specific interventions, on
rural communities and a range of strata of rural populations in different forested regions. Detailed social
assessment of stakeholders directly impacted by the restitution program will be conducted during project
implementation, as recipients of forest land are identified. Data from communities that are not recipients
of forest land will also be included in the assessment in order to provide control comparisons. Detailed
social assessment will be undertaken at the initiation of project implementation, in order to establish a
baseline for subsequent monitoring of project impacts at the community and household levels. Social
impact monitoring will be undertaken both continuously and periodically throughout project
implementation. Continuous monitoring will focus on the status of business and socioeconomic patterns
at the community level and will be based on data collected systematically from local administrations.
This will be augmented by period social assessment undertaken at the household level through structured
surveys.
Scope of Work
2.    Monitoring will be undertaken with the use of:
surveys
focus group work
individual structured interviews
review of documentation and reports.
Survey Design
3.   Tools used to achieve the stated goals will be used to address the following issues:
a) Household level survey will be used for the measurement of the following effects:
* the impact of forest restitution on the households of forest owners (the sources of incomes,
quality of life, work opportunities, entrepreneurial plans/activities);
* the social climate and relationships among the members of communities involved in forest
restitution;
* changes in social capital in the period after restitution;
* employment in the forestry sector;
*   attitudes toward the forest restitution process (positive and negative aspects of the restitution
in terms of actions or actors involved and their intentions and behaviors with respect to
selling, harvesting unsustainably and rationally exploiting forest resources);
*   the attitude to NFA as a manager of state/private forests.
Sample size: 1000 subjects
Sample tMpe: stratified and probabilistic. Criteria for stratification: geographic areas (18 areas), the
degree of development of rural localities (3 categories), the stage of forest restitution (3 categories).
The sample will be designed so as to provide conclusions based on region-specific characteristics,
type of forest property (individual, communal), process of forest restitution (including forest areas
-90 -



not affected by the restitution, forest areas where the process of restitution has started but the forest
has not yet been returned to private owners, and forest areas where most owners have already
received their forest land), the nationality of owners. Data will be collected in door-to-door
interviews.
b) Individual semi-structured interviews. 50 interviews with key stakeholders will be carried out
including: foresters, rural and urban forest owners, mayors, managers and employers in private and
state forestry sectors, representatives of National Forest Administration, poor people whose
subsistence largely depends on forest products. Selection criteria will include geographic areas,
type of forest property, the stage of forest restitution and ethnicity of interviewees (Romanian,
Hungarian, and Roma, etc.). The main topics covered in the interviews will include:
*   The effects of forest restitution on various groups of population (economic, social relations,
social climate, environment, at both the level of the individual and the community);
*   Strengths and weaknesses of the forest restitution process;
* The opportunities of new owners to derive revenue from forestry and related sectors;
*   Ability of the rural poor to access non-timber products in state/private forests;
*   Attitudes to NFA as a manager of state/private forests;
*   Modalities for effective management of state/private forests (what is good and bad now, how
could be changed what is wrong, how could be improved what is good?).
c). Focus groups. 20 focus group sessions will be carried out, including foresters, forest owners,
managers of private and state forestry sectors, NFA representatives, representatives of local
government.
The main topics of the interviews will include:
*   Identification of options for minimizing negative aspects of the forest restitution and for
maximizing the positive influences of the process;
* Identification of opportunities for new owners to derive revenue from forestry and related
sectors;
*   Collection of views on effective management of state/private forests (what is good and bad
now, how could this be changed, what is wrong, how it could be improved?)
d). Document analysis Official statistics and documents related to the process of forest restitution
and its impact will be analyzed. Issues of interest include:
*   Structure of ownership (individual, communal);
*   Employment in forestry and related sectors;
*   Economic activities carried out in the regions affected by the forest restitution (number of
registered firms, type of activities, number of employees);
*   Development of private businesses associated with forest restitution;
*   Conflict resolution relating to disputes over ownership;
*   Changes in socioeconomic characteristics of the localities involved in project.
Statistical data pertaining to selected forest regions will be compiled into standard format locality
records, which will provide for monitoring and evaluation of the community-level impacts of social
change throughout the life of the project.
-91-



Additional Annex 12: Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
ROMANIA Forest Development Project
Background
Romania's forests cover 27 percent of the country and include some of the last and largest tracts of
natural and virgin old growth forests still remaining in Europe. They constitute an extremely valuable
natural resource in terms of their capacity for sustainable production of forest products, provision of
environmental services, and the conservation of biodiversity. While more than half of Romania's forests
are managed for protection functions (rather than for timber production), in the year 2000 the export
value of forest products (including processed timber) was estimated to be around US $1 billion -
equivalent to 10 percent of all exports. In contrast, the value of environmental services associated with
forests is considerably larger, and is estimated at around US$3.1 billion.
Over the last fifty years, most of Romania's forests have been owned by the State and managed by the
State-owned National Forest Administration (NFA), which has a long and distinguished history of
ecologically sound management of natural forests and the wildlife populations they support. In
conjunction with the more general process of democratization, there has been mounting political pressure
to commercialize the NFA and to privatize a number of its non-core activities, coupled with pressures to
return more than one-third of all forest lands to their pre-1948 owners through the on-going process of
restitution. Extensive forest areas have been scheduled for restitution. Most of this land is production
forest, which currently generates most of the revenues needed by NFA to undertake public functions
associated with management of protection forest, including forest National and Natural Parks.
While the restitution of forest lands will ultimately lead to greater democratization, empowerment, and
improved distribution of benefits from forest management to their owners and to associated rural
communities, there are risks associated with the restitution process. Previous experience in Romania
(1991/92) and elsewhere has shown that if the restitution of forest lands takes place without adequate
legal and institutional mechanisms, the almost immediate loss of forest cover is likely to result, leading to
irreversible enviromnental degradation and significant economic losses for the country. In anticipation of
the much larger-scale restitution of forest lands which is now already underway, the role of the State will
need to change rapidly to reduce the potentially devastating impacts of restitution on forests, the
environment, and on the sector's long-term productive capacity. At the same time, the ability of new
forest owners to undertake sustainable forest management will be constrained by technical skills, access
to markets, and investment capital.
The NFA currently manages more than 85 percent of Romania's forests. This area will be reduced
dramatically after restitution. Since most of the forests which will be returned to former owners is
production forest, restitution will significantly increase the proportion of non-revenue generating
activities undertaken by the NFA (from the management of protection forests and National and Natural
Parks, which are areas rich in forest biodiversity) as a share of its total expenditure.
In summary, there are a number of key sectoral issues which include,
*   the need to implement the recently prepared National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS) to provide
overall direction for reform of the sector and to improve the climate for increased investment in
management, production, and processing;
* the challenge of improving Government's supervisory, regulatory, and monitoring capacity to
maintain forests under sustainable management after restitution;
-92 -



* the need to finance and maintain NFA's role in managing and safeguarding remaining State-owned
production and protection forests following restitution in the face of the loss of a large proportion of
the production forests from which it currently derives much of its revenues;
* the need to establish a timber pricing policy that is transparent and fair to forest owners and wood
buyers;
* the low density of the forest road network in production forests causes localized negative
environmental impacts from harvesting, and high harvesting and transport costs; and
*   the efficiency of private wood processing industries could be improved and is sometimes constrained
by the use of outdated technology as well as by access to capital to finance needed improvements,
and to high-value markets which could improve their market position.
The Project
The overall aimn of the FDP is to maintain and to improve environmentally sustainable management of
state and private forests and to increase their contribution to the national and rural economy. The FDP
is designed to assist MAFF to: (a) establish systems to ensure sustainable management of private forest
lands, by building the capacity of the Department of Forests and its Forest Inspectorate, supporting the
development of private forest owners associations, and establishing a forest management information and
monitoring system; (b) mitigate the consequences of restitution on the management of State forest lands
by assisting the NFA to maintain, develop and finance its role in managing protection forests, and to
reduce potential negative environmental impacts and to improve the efficiency of managing State
production forests through rehabilitation and development of the forest road network, piloting an effort to
introduce improved environmental standards in roads design and rehabilitation; (c) support increased
productivity and competitiveness of forest industries, through establishing and operating a Forest Sector
Business Information Center (ForsBIC); and to (d) build public support for sustainable forest
management by implementing a public awareness program targeting key stakeholders with emphasis on
new forest land owners and their associated communities. Indicative project costs are expected to total
US$ 31.9 million. IBRD financing will total $US 25 million over the 6-year life of the project.
Findings of the Environmental Assessment
Even without the incorporation of specific mitigation steps, environmental impacts of most project
components are expected to be positive - as the project was very much conceived of as an effort to
mitigate some of the envisaged negative environmental impacts of restitution. Specifically, it is unlikely
that there would be any positive environmental impacts of the 'without project' scenario, and likely
considerable negative environmental impacts, very much reflecting the view of the EA team that project
activities would be quite important for mitigating some of the negative environmental impacts of the
planned restitution program. A review of likely critical environmental impacts and mitigating steps
which have been incorporated into the project as a result of the Environmental Assessment follows.
Component 1: Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest Lands
The first component of the project proposes to finance the strengthening of the Department of Forests
within the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, with particular emphasis on strengthening the
capacity of the Forest Inspectorates; to finance measures to develop the Association of Private Forest
Owners and to establish community-based Associations of Local Forest Owners, and to establish a
national Forest Management Information and Monitoring System.
No negative environmental impacts of this component are envisaged, and significant positive
environmental impacts are anticipated.
- 93 -



A larger question which has been raised is whether or not the investments proposed go far enough. Will,
for example, the elements of capacity building incorporated into the project provide sufficient leverage
for the Forest Inspectorates adequately to perform their tasks? Do they have enough independence to do
so? Is the overall policy and legal framework adequate for supporting the institutional reforms proposed
by the project? Is there the political will to tackle issues of governance which could undermine the
longer term process of reform? These are difficult questions, reflect largely sectoral concerns, and
extend far beyond the normal scope of an EA.
Romania, like many other countries, faces budget constraints and a need to limit the size of its civil
service. In the face of these circumstances, the project is supporting the establishment, at some financial
cost, of the newly constituted Forest Inspectorate. Resources to fund capacity building and institutional
development of the Forest Inspectorates would not be forthcoming in the absence of the FDP. Once
performance of the Inspectorates can be properly evaluated, as a result of this support, the potential for
subsequent commitments can be assessed, and this should provide the framework for future action.
The body of forest legislation in Romania is also evolving, in response to many of the changes which
have accompanied the political and economic transition over the last 10 years. Even with the best legal
and institutional framework for forest management in Romania, experience in many countries indicates
that without the support of local communities and relevant stakeholders, enforcement is not effective.
The project seeks, through a combination of measures, to build ownership for sustainable forest
management, to bring about effective enforcement.
Other questions have been raised about the likely impact of corruption on the sector as a whole, as well
as on project implementation in particular. There is relatively little information known about the extent
of corruption in the forest sector. The failure, however, to capture revenues as a result of corruption and
illegal harvesting increases the overall cost of management, and supports rates of forest harvesting which
are not consistent with generally accepted norms of sustainable forest management. There is scope for
developing a far better understanding of the nature and dimension of problems of forest governance in
Romania.
Mitigation measures financed by the project are designed to address overall sectoral concerns (which
would be in place even without the project), rather than specific negative environmental or social impacts
which are likely as a result of the project, which, as indicated, are expected to be nil in light of the wider
sectoral framework. Within this framework, the project was designed to assist in addressing the issues of
legislation, enforcement, and governance. The proposed project is partly designed to build the capacity of
MAFF to enforce the forest code and to provide extension and advisory services, with particular
emphasis on newly restituted forest lands where the risks of illegal and unsustainable practices are
greatest. The project will also assist new forest owners, at the regional and community levels, to form
and establish forest owners associations in order to consolidate private forest holdings into economically
viable management units that can be managed in accordance with the existing forest management
planning system.
Government support for the establishment of independent certification of forest products will provide
additional incentives to ensure that forest management will be environmentally, socially and
economically sustainable. Certification also represents European best practice, and this operation is one
of the first in Romania to support this. Government has targeted over a million ha for eventual
certification. A commitment to compliance with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) standards is an
indication of Government's interest in seeing that production forests are sustainably and transparently
managed. FSC standards also include moves to account for the chain-of-custody,'which should also begin
- 94 -



to address some of the problems of the marketing of illegally harvested timber. Steps are also underway
to find ways of certifying production from private forest owners, through the forest owners association
network. The project will provide support for these types of initiatives to enable private forest owners to
maximize returns to forest management.
In addition to these measures, the proposed FDP tackles the problem of governance in the sector in a
number of important respects. Firstly, the strengthening of the Forest Inspectorates to improve their
capacity to enforce forest legislation is a key objective of this component of the project. Indeed, the
Forest Inspectorate has primary responsibility for control, monitoring, and forest law enforcement in both
state and private forests. Secondly, the project seeks vastly to increase the availability of infornation
about forest harvesting and management by establishing a national forest management information and
monitoring system for the Department of Forests, greatly increasing its capacity for planning and
monitoring. Finally, the public awareness component is very much design to improve local governance
by making owners more aware of their rights and responsibilities and the importance of sustainable forest
management. These actions will seek to engage wider civil society groups in monitoring performance of
the Forest Inspectorates and of the Department of Forests in seeking to enforce the legal framework.
An additional mitigation measure which is expected to be implemented, also posed within the framework
of wider sectoral concerns (regardless of project-specific impacts) seeks to develop better information
about the nature and extent of corruption in the forestry sector. A diagnostic study, which follows on the
results of the overall national diagnostic of corruption, will be carried out once independent financing
and implementing mechanisms are mobilized. The Diagnostic will be carried out by an independent
institution with financing which is not related to the FDP. The Diagnostic Study will describe the nature
of corruption in the sector and will propose a number of initiatives to reduce, control, or otherwise to
mitigate the impacts of corruption on sectoral performance. Once the Diagnostic Study has been
completed, some of the project's unallocated physical and price contingencies will be allocated
specifically to implement priority recommendations of the Diagnostic (provided these recommendations
have not already been accommodated by the project).
An important institutional mechanism for ensuring the project is perforning to an adequate standard with
respect to this component in particular is the Project Oversight Committee. The Project Oversight
Committee will consist of representatives from the Department of Forests, MAFF, the Ministry of
Finance, NFA, and the NGO community, and will be advised by various consultative groups which are to
be established. The Committee will be responsible for providing project oversight advice and assistance
in resolving issues associated with project implementation. Representation of the NGO community on
the Oversight Committee has been welcomed by Government - an option not discussed in the original
EA - but the selection of a representative remains the responsibility of the NGO community, which has,
to-date, been unable to identify a suitable representative.
Component 2 Mitigate the Consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest Land
The second project component will provide support for reform and strategic development of the National
Forest Administration, and for rehabilitation and construction of the forest roads network (including a
key stretch of forest railway).
The reform process is geared toward assisting NFA to change in response to the wider changes which are
already underway, particularly with respect to the restitution of forest lands. They are geared toward
improving NFA's efficiency and financial viability on remaining state forest lands which will be under
its control. The project will provide resources to assist NFA in developing and implementing a strategic
plan to strengthen its role in managing remaining State forests. The strategic plan will focus on reforming
-95-



and strengthening the NFA's institutional capacity to improve its operational and commercial efficiency,
optimizing revenue generation from production forest, while safeguarding the public interest and
ecological services provided by protection and production forest. The reserve pricing system will be
reviewed and revised to establish an objective and auditable process for determining reserve pricing for
timber auctions. The project will also assist NFA in defining its information management system
requirements to support its strategic development and will provide an interactive link with the national
forest management information and monitoring system that the project will establish within the
Department of Forests. Finally, the project is expected to provide logistical support in terms of vehicles
and equipment required to manage the forest protected area network, which is being developed with the
assistance of the ongoing Biodiversity Conservation Management Project.
In conjunction with the overall NFA reform process, the project will also finance, on a pilot scale,
rehabilitation and expansion of the forest road network (including the rehabilitation of the only forest
railway operating in Romania), by implementing a series of forest roads sub-projects, with the objective
of reducing the negative environmental impacts of harvesting, against forest management plan standards,
and to improve the economic viability of wood harvesting from State production forests.
The two project subcomponents are seen to be integrated actions, i.e. institutional reform by itself is
unlikely to be financially viable in the absence of investment in improving the economic efficiency of
timber harvesting in NFA's production forests. Investments in roads rehabilitation and construction
makes little sense if NFA fails to undergo needed reforms in its strategic approach and outlook, in its
overall approach to financial management, and in its way of pricing timber through the auction system.
Strategic planning and reform of the NFA
No negative enviromnental impacts of this sub-component are envisaged, and some modest positive
environmental impacts are anticipated. Indeed, the nature of the institutional reforms proposed is largely
'environment neutral,' that is, the objective of reform is largely to improve overall public sector
management. A better environmental regulatory framework is, however, anticipated as a result of the
project, and this should yield some gains in overall environmental management. Significantly,
environmental impacts of this component are expected to be far more negative if the roads component is
not included in the project. In other words, the institutional reforms which are envisaged are unlikely to
be sustained if a framework for economically efficient and environmentally sensible roads management
is not developed, tested and introduced.
Forest roads rehabilitation and expansion
In terms of investment by the World Bank, forest roads rehabilitation and expansion is the major element
of this component of the FDP, as well as the largest single subcomponent of the FDP overall. Bank
6-year financing for this component is expected to total $18.9 million, or 44 percent of total project costs,
averaging just over $3 million per year. The balance of the resources required for roads rehabilitation and
construction are to be financed by Government. Forest roads rehabilitation and expansion is also the
element of the FDP with the highest potential for direct negative environmental impacts (e.g.,
construction, maintenance and usage.
The roads component, as it has been conceived, is comprised of a series of sub-projects, which are to be
implemented in 5 annual tranches. Each tranche will be geographically clustered. A partial listing of
sub-projects has tentatively been identified, based on a listing provided by Government of the roads in
need of investment, which were primarily roads badly damaged by recent floods. Identification of each of
the 5 tranches, however, will only be confirmed during the course of project implementation. The first
-96 -



tranche, for example, will be selected from this listing, but will only be confirmed mid-way through the
first year of project implementation. Actual civil works on any roads sub-project will not be initiated
until the second year of project implementation (and this, only after various screening and assessment
processes have been completed). The 5 tranches will be undertaken in the second through sixth project
years.
A partial listing of road rehabilitation and construction sub-projects was prepared and these roads were
screened, and rescreened for their potential environmental impacts. Rescreening yielded an initial list,
from which several of the 5 tranches of sub-projects will be identified, comprised of a total of 430 km of
forest infrastructure (roads and railways) which are to be rehabilitated (in 53 sub-projects) and 56 km of
new roads which are to be constructed (in 18 sub-projects). Funds are provided in the project to finance
an additional 24 km of roads construction sub-projects (probably around 8 sub-projects), which have yet
to be identified, and 88 km of roads rehabilitation sub-projects (around 11 sub-projects) which have yet
to be identified. This initial list of roads will subsequently change as new information becomes available
during project implementation as a result of more intensive review and screening, but on balance, it is
anticipated that the project will finance around 80 km of new roads construction (in around 26
sub-projects) and 516 km of roads and railway infrastructure rehabilitation (in around 64 sub-projects).
Roads rehabilitation sub-projects are expected to vary in length from around 1 to 20 ki, but average
around 8 km each. New road construction sub-projects, which entirely comprise the extension of
existing roads (i.e. spur extensions) are expected to vary in length from around 0.5 to 6.5 km, but will
average around 3 km each.
[The roads sub-projects targeted for project support were scaled back substantially during Negotiations at
the request of the Ministry of Public Finance. The project, as it was Negotiated is expected to finance
around 10 km of new roads construction (in 4 sub-projects) and 425 km of roads and railway
infrastructure rehabilitation (in around 53 sub-projects).]
As a pilot activity, the roads identified for construction or rehabilitation represent a very small fraction of
the total length of forest roads or associated harvesting and extraction infrastructure in Romania.
Harvesting and extraction infrastructure, at the end of the year 2000, comprised a total of 41,546 km of
roads and 65 km of railway. Roads targeted for new construction by the project would increase the total
road length by less than 2 tenths of one percent. Infrastructure planned for rehabilitation constitutes 1.2
percent of the total. By any standard, the fact that the project is investing in such a small percentage of
the overall total (and indeed, in the face of the enormous needs for construction and rehabilitation)
demonstrates that it constitutes a pilot operation. Because of this, aggregate impacts of the roads project
are expected to be relatively minor.
Roads sub-projects which have been initially identified - and indeed all roads investments to be financed
by the project - all fall within production forests. All 'Forest Fund' production forests are managed
under Forest Management Plans. All of these plans are prepared on a compartment basis by ICAS on
behalf of the owner (i.e. the NFA), approved by the Directorate of Forests (now in MAFF), and revised
every 10 years. Roads rehabilitation and extension sub-projects are framed in the context of Forest
Management Plans.
Generally speaking, the potential direct environmental impacts related to the construction of forest roads
include:
*   Habitat loss/fragmentation (associated with the footprint of the road);
*   Alteration of drainage/natural hydrologic regime;
*   Stream erosion;
-97 -



*   Soil erosion and downstream sedimentation;
*   Slope instability and landslides; and
*   Resultant secondary impacts (e.g., increased access to formerly remote areas, increased resource
extraction and resultant impacts to biodiversity and physical environment, economic impacts such as
employment - both temporary (road construction impacts) and permanent (ongoing maintenance and
resource extraction impacts)).
Potential indirect impacts could include increased illegal harvesting, but only if enforcement and
regulatory mechanisms fail.
The role of forest management planning is important to consider in the process of forest roads
construction and rehabilitation. All roads (which are located in state land in Forest Fund production
forests), are planned, designed and permitted in the context of a management system based on extensive
experience with silvicultural practices implemented through 10-year forest management plans, and which
incorporate watershed and biodiversity protection functions and other environmental aspects.
Silvicultural and management programs integrate traditional forest harvest practices of local communities
including wood for fencing and building repair, fire wood), and non-timber forest products (NTFPs, e.g.,
medicinal plants, mushrooms, nuts, honey). Roads rehabilitation, by itself, is intended to reduce negative
environmental impacts from erosion.
In the context of the forest management planning process which prescribes the Annual Allowable Cut,
based on principles of sustainable forest management, roads construction and rehabilitation financed by
the project will have virtually no impact on levels of harvesting. The Annual Allowable Cut provides the
basis for auctioning timber resources in individual blocks and is formally approved by the Cabinet. The
primary impact of the roads rehabilitation component will be an economic one, to reduce the costs of
harvesting and extraction, rather than to increase the rate of harvesting to unsustainable levels above the
AAC, ensuring NFA will receive higher value for standing timber in auction markets. In the context of
well-established sustainable forest management plans, the environmental impact of the roads component
are expected to be beneficial: better designed roads will reduce erosion, and a more rational network will
limit damage to vegetation caused by long skidding distances. The effectiveness of the forest
management and enforcement regime will be important for limiting unintended impacts, and the project
makes considered investments in strengthening these capacities.
Roads sub-projects are not expected to have any impact on protected areas and will neither pass through
any protected area nor will they increase access to protected areas.
To minimize other potential environmental impacts of the road sub-component, a number of mitigation
measures will be undertaken, consistent with the approach the project has taken toward investment in
rehabilitation and construction sub-projects.
In the first project year, before any investments are made in any roads rehabilitation or new construction,
the preparation of a Forest Roads Best Practice Manual will be commissioned. The Best Practice Manual
will describe, in detail, technical specifications for the rehabilitation and construction of forest roads to
acceptable international standards to minimize negative environmental impacts. Drafts of the Best
Practice Manual will be made widely available for public consultation and information. The Best
Practice Manual will also include further guidance with respect to environmental and social screening
and assessment, and will be completed in the first project year.
During the first project year, the first tranche of roads sub-projects (which will entirely comprise roads
rehabilitation) will be identified. A cumulative impacts screen will be carried out of these sub-projects,
- 98 -



and of each subsequent tranche of sub-projects, to identify instances when two or more road projects
occur in a single river basin or catclment of 1000 ha or smaller, or where roads interfere with habitats of
concern. Options for management would include phasing the implementation of the road projects to
avoid simultaneous construction impacts or, where this is difficult or undesirable for economic or other
reasons, requiring EAs for these road projects regardless of the individual scores resulting from the
screening process. Any proposed road construction sub-project or road rehabilitation sub-project which
provides increased access to protected areas will automatically be dropped from the list of proposed
sub-projects.
Road design will subsequently be carried out to the standards and specifications described in the Best
Practice Manual. Once sub-project design is complete according to these standards, the first tranche of
sub-projects will be rescreened for their potential environmental and social impacts, following the
procedures and screening approach outlined in this report and incorporating any additional measures
outlined in the Best Practice Manual. The screening process will involve an intensive review of road
sub-project design. Screening will be carried out by the Roads Engineer with the PMU working closely
with qualified personnel with the Forest Inspectorates. Road sub-projects will be evaluated for their
potential negative environmental and social impact. Where these are significant, sub-project specific
Environmental Assessments will be prepared. Other roads sub-projects would not require a sub-project
EA. It is anticipated that, as a result of the screening process, all new roads sub-projects will be subject
to an EA. An identical process will be followed for all subsequent tranches of sub-projects.
The preparation of a large number of sub-project EAs during project implementation is potentially a
substantial burden, both in terms of cost and time, particularly for roads rehabilitation. In some respects,
it is an unreasonably high standard, exceeding the standards described in Romania's own environmental
legislation, as well as standards established in EC Directive 85/337/EEC on Environmental Impact
Assessment as amended by 97/ 1/EEC, which excludes activities in the forestry sector from mandatory
EA requirements, and which allows member states to establish their own thresholds with respect to when
EAs would be required for the construction of new roads (making no mention whatsoever of requiring
EAs for roads rehabilitation). Romanian legislation currently establishes no thresholds for roads
construction or rehabilitation whatsoever.
Guidance about the appropriate scale and coverage of EAs is provided by the World Bank's Operational
Policy 4.01 Environmental Assessment which states that,
'EA is a process whose breadth, depth, and type of analysis depend on the nature, scale, and
potential environmental impact of the proposed project.' (emphasis added)
Secondly, OP 4.01 provides explicitly for the preparation of sub-project EAs (when these are confirmed
to be necessary as result of screening), during project implementation and requires the implementing
institution 'to carry out appropriate EA according to country requirements and the requirements of this
policy.'
In light of this, EAs for forest road sub-projects should be focused on very clearly meeting the intent of
OP 4.01 (which, compared with national requirements is the higher standard) to provide sub-project EAs
*of breadth, depth, and type which reflects the nature, scale, and potential environmental impact of the
proposed sub-project. This intent can be met by focusing critically on the immediate scope of individual
roads sub-projects, the main purpose being objectively to review the proposed road project design in light
of specific field conditions and the potential and siglificant negative environmental and social impacts
which may result.
- 99 -



Once sub-projects have been rescreened for their potential environmental and social impacts, sub-project
specific EAs, where these are judged to be necessary, will be largely based on detailed field
reconnaissance visits to the site or corridor of the road. Specific problem areas will be identified in the
field and studied. The main output of the sub-project EA will be recommendations to avoid, minimize
and mitigate potential impacts, during both construction and operation. A suggested outline for
sub-project specific EAs follows:
(a)    Summary, which discusses significant findings and recommended actions.
(b)    Policy, legal, and administrative framework Discusses the policy, legal, and administrative
framework within which the sub-project EA is carried out. Explains the environmental requirements of
any cofinanciers. Identifies relevant international environmental agreements to which the country is a
party. It is unlikely that this section will change significantly from sub-project to sub-project.
(c)    Sub-project description which describes the proposed project and its geographic, ecological,
social, and temporal context. Indicates the need for any resettlement or relocation. Includes a map
showing the project site and the project's area of influence.
(d)    Baseline data. Assesses the dimensions of the sub-project area and describes relevant physical,
biological, and socioeconomic conditions. Particularly referring to the current Forest Management Plan,
takes into account current and proposed forest management activities.
(e)    Environmental and social impacts. Predicts and assesses the project's likely positive and
negative impacts, in quantitative terms to the extent possible. Identifies mitigation measures and any
residual negative impacts that cannot be mitigated.
(f)    Analysis of alternatives. Systematically compares feasible alternatives, taking account of
guidance in the Best Practice Manual, in terms of their potential environmental impacts; the feasibility of
mitigating these impacts; their capital and recurrent costs; suitability under local conditions; and their
institutional, training, and monitoring requirements.
(g)    Environmental management plan (EMP). Covers mitigation measures and monitoring and
cross-references these to the Best Practice Manual.
Once the draft road sub-project EA is completed, it will be made locally available for consultation and
review for a period of 60 days, and notice of its availability will be published in a nationally circulated
magazine. Written comments on the sub-project EA will be solicited in this review process, and, when
needed, public consultations will be carried out. Written comments will be considered in revising road
sub-projects designs.
The road sub-project EA will be carried out by a qualified independent local consultant who will adhere
to the disclosure practices outlined in this report. The sub-project EA will identify mitigating steps not
already accounted for in roads design, and will consider other options such as re-siting, alternative
routings, and dropping the sub-project altogether if adequate mitigating measures cannot be undertaken.
The quality of the sub-project EA, and the standards adopted, will be reviewed by the staff with the
Forests Inspectorate and with the Project Management Unit.
Compliance with the construction and rehabilitation methods outlined in the Best Practice Manual will
be a contractual obligation of all roads sub-contractors financed by the project both during the design and
- 100-



construction phases. Contractual compliance with the Best Practice Manual and with the
recommendations and findings of any of the Environmental Assessments which are prepared for
individual roads sub-projects will be monitored by the Forest Road Specialist in the PMU and by a
counterpart(s) to be identified within the Forest Inspectorate.
Five tranches of roads construction and rehabilitation sub-projects are envisaged over the life of the
project. Roads proposed for inclusion in each tranche will be listed annually by public notice.
There are serious capacity constraints for carrying out environmental and social impacts screening and
assessment. The project will employ a Forest Roads Specialist as part of the Project Management Unit to
address these constraints. The Roads Specialist will have a good understanding of forest roads, forest
road best practice, design, and operation, with experience and background in environmental assessment
and mitigation. The Road Specialist will have some responsibility for commissioning and managing road
sub-project EAs, as well as the review and monitoring implementation of EA reconunendations. The
Road Specialist will also be involved in tendering for and supervision of road construction and
rehabilitation projects to ensure that design and construction management specifications of the Best
Practice Manual are requirements of the construction contract; that these standards and requirements are
clear to the winning bidder; and that standards are understood by the agencies charged with supervising
construction and are enforced.
The Forest Inspectorate is the best positioned government agency to carry out the environmental
screening and review function for forest roads when FDP is completed, but to do so, it is necessary that
capacity is developed. The Forest Inspectorate will identify a staff member, with qualifications which are
similar qualifications to the Road Specialist's, and assign this individual on a full or part time basis to
work closely with the Road Specialist. This individual's responsibilities will parallel those identified for
the Road Specialist and will include commissioning and managing the EAs which are carried out as well
as the review and implementation of the EA recommendations and construction supervision. The intent
of this liaison and shared responsibilities during the six-year implementation period of the FDP is that the
necessary capacity would be developed and that these responsibilities be transferred to the Forest
Inspectorate.
Component 3. Support Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest Industries
The Increased Productivity and Competitiveness component of the FDP aims to promote the
establishment of the Forest Business Information Center (ForsBIC), an independent business
development and advisory service, which will establish linkages and coordination within the forest
industry chain (i.e., silviculture, harvesting, transport, primary and secondary processing), and provide
assistance to wood and related forest industries, through review and dissermination of information on new
technologies, markets and prices, export and hygiene requirements, product promotion and branding,
opportunities for joint venture partnerships, certified timber uses and markets, and the availability of
grants, and credit etc. This component focuses very much on the forest product industry, rather than on
timber supply or private forest owners.
If industrial development of the forest sector is encouraged without adequate safeguards for the
environment and people's health and safety, negative environmental and social impacts could be the
outcome. These potentially include:
*   increased pollution of air and water and associated health impacts;
* risks of soil and groundwater contamination from inappropriate use and/or storage of toxic materials;
*   increased water abstraction and associated conflicts with other water users;
- 101 -



* increased traffic with associated noise, air pollution and accidents;
*   inadequate measures to protect employee's safety at work;
* inappropriate waste disposal; and
* land use conflicts between other users.
These impacts will be avoided and/or considerably reduced through measures incorporated into the
execution of this component. Specifically,
* support provided by ForsBIC will be premised on the use of modern, clean and efficient technologies
and processes;
* advice and support for the uptake of clean technologies and processes will form the basis of all
component activities;
* advice and support for the development and implementation of an auditable environmental
management system (for example, using ISO 14001 standards as a basis) will form the basis of all
component activities;
* support will not be provided to businesses which are unable to demonstrate that adequate safeguards
have been put in place to avoid or minimize possible environmental impacts;
*   activities proposed for ForsBIC support will be evaluated by the PMU to determine their potential
impact on the environment and where necessary further assessment will be undertaken before support
is approved;
*   within the framework of Romania's regulatory structure for environmental protection, the PMU or a
suitably qualified expert will review any environmental assessments undertaken for a business and
ensure that all mitigation and safeguard measures are undertaken by the appropriate authority;
*   project monitoring will incorporate measures which consider potential environmental impacts.
Local planning requirements will play an important role in determining the environmental and social
acceptability of business development. Where a project activity has the potential to impact negatively on
the environment, the PMU must ensure that regulatory institutions have the capacity to monitor
environmental impacts and enforce any necessary regulations where non-compliance is observed.
Component 4. Building Public Supportfor Sustainable Forest Management
The project is to provide resources for preparing and implementing a public awareness strategy and
campaign targeting key stakeholders, with particular emphasis on communities living in forested areas;
private forest owners; Forest Inspectorate staff; NFA; Government decision makers, and other influential
groups including Churches and NGOs with the objective of disseminating information about the
importance and value of sustainable forest management. Implementation of the program will be
supported by an inter-ministerial committee on which the Ministries of Industry and Commerce,
Education, Waters and Environmental Protection, Culture, Tourism and Public Administration will be
represented. Campaign strategies will include: educating mass media; providing public relations guidance
to Forest Inspectorate staff; developing educational and promotional materials for use in schools and the
mass media; organizing local education events; supporting public awareness campaigns at the local level;
involvement of environmental NGOs in educational projects; and support for the PMU to develop their
public relations capacity and inform key decision makers of the status of project implementation. The
public awareness campaign will undertake regular assessments of stakeholder perceptions, which will be
used to refine the implementation of the campaign in line with changing requirements.
The component is expected to have fundamentally quite positive environmental impacts, hopefully
reducing the extent to which private and state forests are poorly managed. Performance monitoring of
this component will depend on the stakeholder assessments which are to be carried out during
- 102-



implementation. There are no negative environmental or social impacts envisaged. No mitigation
measures for this component are envisaged because no negative impacts are likely.
The component is intended to raise awareness about the importance and purpose for sustainable forest
management;- methods, tools and techniques for sustainable forestry management; roles and
responsibilities of forest authorities, the public and private business; policies (especially restitution),
Forest Management Plans and timetables for action, advice and assistance available as part of the FDP,
from forest authorities, other programs; opportunities for private business development, securing
investment finance and help and advice available. The program will also ensure a sound understanding of
needs, desires, expectations and capabilities of public about sustainable forestry and their expectations of
the forest as a resource in developing the public awareness program. It will use tools and techniques
appropriate to socio-cultural structures and circumstances and will ensure early involvement and
engagement of forest authorities with the public
ComponentS. Project Management andMonitoring
Project management will be undertaken by the Project Management Unit (PMU), which has already
established by MAFF under the Biodiversity Conservation and Management Project. In addition to the
existing staff, the FDP will finance a roads specialist and a PA consultant to assist with procurement,
management and supervision of the road and public awareness components throughout the entire period
of FDP implementation.
Monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be undertaken by the PMU, and will be subject to
periodic review by the Bank. The PMU will establish project monitoring and evaluation procedures
acceptable to the Bank during the first six months of implementation, and will furnish the Bank with
biannual project progress reports, together with work programs inclusive of detailed monitoring
indicators for the following six month period.
The PMU will have an obviously important role in managing the overall project, and in particular, in
implementing mitigating measures associated with other project components. Investment in the PMU by
itself, however, is not expected to yield any negative environmental impacts. No mitigation measures are
envisaged because no negative impacts are likely.
The PMU will regularly review the effectiveness of the FDP in terms of environmental impacts and
benefits and revise activities accordingly. It will support and promote: environmental training and
capacity building of forest authorities and change management of forest authorities. It will promote
leadership and ownership of FDP by forest authorities to maximize long-term sustainability.
Moving forward: The Scope for Private Sector and Civil Society Involvement
Public awareness about the objectives of the FDP, and support for these goals, will be critical for the
success of the project. Extensive consultations were carried out with forest sector stakeholders and
public and private business interests during conception and preparation of the FDP, particularly during
preparation of the National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS), but also in conjunction with preparation
of the EA. Consultations indicated a degree of public frustration regarding future restitution of existing
Forest Fund lands. The major issue of concem is the possibility that mature tracts may be harvested by
NFA under existing management plan schedules prior to restitution, resulting in a potential loss of
revenues to the future owner. This is partially due to a slow progress on restitution, which has been a
major political issue since 1989 and one fraught with complexities and slowed to some extent by the
change in elected governments and related changes in institutions and policies.
- 103-



The development of the National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS) involved extensive public
participation which was instrumental in defining the final outcome of the NFPS and the design of the
FDP. The NFPS was prepared over a ten month period commencing March 2000 through a participatory
process that included the involvement of over 300 representatives of different forestry sector stakeholder
groups. Through this process, a substantial effort was made to identify and incorporate the concerns of
stakeholders.
Furthermore, a major component of the FDP involves an extensive public awareness program designed to
promote a better public understanding of the project and its goals within the framework of the NFPS and
to address associated issues such as how the restitution of forest lands will take place and how
sustainable forest management will be implemented. Successful implementation of this public awareness
campaign - and the real impact through the projects other components - will be crucial for addressing
public apprehension.
- 104 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 32169
d LL a * t/ - < ' z ~~UKRAINE \4.  B >34(<O(
ROMANIA      4B-
W  t  \   i   {_  ,t'1'           1X;     <OOSND         FORESTDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\  >  ~ Satu --  ,,,  \  '~'  \   ~   < >   t it t'Q D  FOREST COVER
T o .MARA      RES   -    SCEAVA
HUNGARY                    Ba'                    Su ,rceav Ja le < VbE
(*  /       ~~~~~~~~~FOREST COVER
- ~~~ I~~~~~'  ~ ~   B~  VILLAGES
2 4'> i' '/ ' ST IT G   D COUNJ TJUDO CENTER$
I A  I /NTCNICNA
- . \ COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
\/ W    j >'i05i,,     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
9 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~         . :,    i rcrau '               M HR X t '?J X 'LDOVA
t < ,2X~~~~~~~~O.Ai' VS                   A    p2         .,5
-f  t A f 5        50,                   X~~~~~~~~~ VRANC~EA SGALATI A , 
t"1'-                               =NEA
-No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
YUGOSLAVIt,  ''3' +  +s f  O  L t   \ t/  ;  tO1Ccicrasi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  Constanta
R  TA ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~E
Ara                  A LS VCI  ps  r   'A./T L 7 Nib       fI>~z8\_\ 
:;.                     k,         46- .  SO  l5MiIos
''-;~~~\.~  2'i\, 926.'         J    -  4BULGARIA  26q                2S 
t                                       r  IJ  t  -  <  I  I  t I  . Novenrber 2rJO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oonbe 20






I



Report No.:        25131   RO
Type:     PAD



