Report No. PID8602
Project Name             ROMANIA-Forest Development Project
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Forestry (100%)
Project ID               P067367
Borrower(s)              ROMANIA
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND
FORESTS
Address: 24, Blvd. Carol I, Bucharest,
Romania
Contact Person: Viorel Marinescu,
Director
Tel: 40-1-314 80 57/ext. 273
Fax: 40-1-313 21 98
National Forest Administration
Address: 31, Blv. Magheru, Bucharest,
Romania
Contact Person: Filip Georgescu,
General Director
Tel: 40-1-315 58 15/310 06 26
Fax: 40-1-222 84 28
Environment Category     A
Date PID Prepared        November 22, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      October 12, 2001
Bank Approval Date       December 19, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Overview
Value of Romanian Forests: Romania's forests cover almost one-third of
the country and include some of the last and largest tracts of natural and
virgin old growth forests still remaining in Europe. They constitute an
extremely valuable natural resource in terms of their capacity for
sustainable production of forest products, provision of environmental
services, and the conservation of biodiversity. While more than half of
Romania's forests are managed for protection functions (rather than for
timber production), in the year 2000 the export value of forest products
was estimated at around US $1 billion, which was equivalent to 10 percent
of all exports. The value of environmental services associated with
forests are, however, considerably larger. A recent study (World Bank,
"Economic Valuation and Reform of the Forestry Sector, Romania," January
1999) indicated that the annual value of all products and services
provided by Romania's forests, including environmental services but
excluding value-added from forest industries, is on the order of US $3.1
billion.
Forest Management and Financing: Over the last fifty years, most of



Romania's forests have been owned by the State and managed by the
State-owned National Forest Administration (NFA). The NFA, with a staff
of 30,000 has a long and distinguished history of ecologically sound
management of natural forests and the wildlife populations they support.
Separate institutions under the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests
(MAFF) -- principally the Department of Forests (DOF) with its
Directorates of Strategy, Policy and Legislation; and the Forest
Inspectorate -- are responsible for regulatory, monitoring, and
supervisory functions on all forest lands. There is mounting political
pressure to commercialize the NFA and to privatize a number of its
non-core activities, coupled with pressures to return more than one-third
of all forest lands to their pre-1948 owners through the on-going process
of restitution. Most of the land that is scheduled for restitution is
production forest, which currently generates most of the revenues needed
by NFA to undertake public functions associated with management of
protection forest (53 percent of Romania's forest estate).
The Risks of Restitution and the Changing Role of the State in Forest
Management: While the restitution of forest lands will ultimately lead to
greater democratization, empowerment, and improved distribution of
benefits from forest management to their owners and to associated rural
communities, there are risks associated with the restitution process.
Previous experience in Romania and elsewhere has shown that if the
restitution of forest lands takes place without adequate legal and
institutional mechanisms, the almost immediate loss of forest cover is
likely to result, leading to irreversible environmental degradation and
significant economic losses for the country. Following the restitution of
350,000 hectares of Romanian forest lands in 1991/92, approximately
one-third of the area was clear-felled within three years and many other
restituted areas were harvested at unsustainable rates, leading to an
overall loss in productive capacity. The total economic cost of this
event - measured in terms of loss of watershed protection functions,
erosion, related flooding damage, reduced timber production, and reduced
wildlife habitats - has been conservatively estimated to be on the order
of US $1.5 billion. In anticipation of the much larger-scale restitution
of forest lands which is about to take place, the role of the State will
need to change rapidly to reduce the potentially devastating impacts of
restitution on forests, the environment, and on the sector's long-term
productive capacity. At the same time, the ability of new forest owners
to undertake sustainable forest management will be constrained by
technical skills, access to markets, and investment capital.
Table 1: Profile of the Forest Sector of Romania
Total Forest Area:       6.37 million hectares
Forest Ownership (June 1998)
State :     92t
Private :
Forest types
Beech :     30t
Oaks :      19t
Coniferous :         309
Other :     21t
National forest stock : 1,350 million m3
Annual growth : 5.6 m3 / ha / year
Annual Allowable Cut (2001) :    17 million m3 / year
Geographical distribution
-2-



Mountains : 60t
Hills       30t
Plains :    10t
Functional distribution
Protection forests (not protected areas) : 53t
Production forests :         47T
Under the previous regime, Romania invested heavily in training, producing
some of Europe's best silviculture and technical specialists. Furniture
exports were among the highest in Europe and the sector supported a high
level of employment. The economic and political transition has led to
reduced production and employment in the sector, and the nation's forests
resources continue to be undervalued and progressively under-utilized.
The sector remains, however, a significant provider of rural employment
and income. In the year 2000, approximately 30,000 people were employed
in forest management; 67,000 in logging and primary processing; 21,000 in
pulp and paper industries, and over 100,000 in furniture manufacturing.
Forest-based tourism and the collection and sale of non-timber forest
products provides employment for large numbers of the Romanian rural
population. There are significant opportunities to increase the scale,
competitiveness and profitability of Romanian wood industries, and
employment supported by the sector, while maintaining public and private
forests under sustainable management, as well as protecting Romania's rich
forest biodiversity.
Main sector issues:
The main issues facing the sector include:
(a) the need to implement the recently prepared National Forest Policy and
Strategy (NFPS) to provide overall direction for reform of the sector and
to improve the climate for increased investment in management, production,
and processing;
(b) the challenge of improving Government's supervisory, regulatory, and
monitoring capacity to maintain forests under sustainable management after
restitution;
(c) the need to finance and maintain NFA's role in managing and
safeguarding remaining State-owned production and protection forests
following restitution, in the face of the loss of a large proportion of
the production forests from which it currently derives much of its
revenues;
(d) the need to establish a timber pricing policy that is transparent and
fair to forest owners and wood buyers;
(e) the low density of the forest road network in production forests,
which causes localized negative environmental impacts from harvesting, and
high harvesting and transport costs; and
(f) inefficiency of private wood processing industries,which are
constrained by the use of outdated technology as well as by lack of access
to capital to finance needed improvements, and to high-value markets which
could improve their market position.
National Forest Sector Policy and Strategy: Recent sector analysis and
stakeholder consultation led to the participatory development of a
comprehensive national forest sector policy and strategy (NFPS) to address
the urgent strategic choices facing the sector. Development of the NFPS
- 3 -



was undertaken over a ten month period commencing in early 2000, through a
participatory process involving representatives of all forestry sector
stakeholder groups. In addition to defining overall forestry policy at
the national level, the NFPS sets out and prioritizes a series of specific
strategic actions to achieve policy goals and provides the basis for the
coordinated and sustainable development of the sector. The NFPS has
recently been adopted by Government and the challenge is now to implement
the strategic actions it proposes.
Restitution of forest lands: Government is under pressure to proceed
rapidly with the restitution of forest lands as part of the broader
restitution and democratization process. Under Law 1/2000, requests have
been submitted by different categories of former owners for the
restitution of approximately 3 million hectares of forest land.
Implementation of the restitution process has recently been speeded up and
it is likely that about two million hectares (approximately one third of
Romanian forests) will be returned to private owners by 2003.
Table 2. Claims for forest land under law 1/2000 by ownership category
Type of Ownership        Area (ha)       Percent of Total
Private Individuals
900,961        30
Communities/undivided private ownership *
725,857        24
Churches, education institutions
65,407 2
Municipalities, towns, communes
1,280,763       43
Expatriate Romanians
15,075 1
Total   2,988,063        100
* Communities/undivided private ownership is a traditional form of forest
ownership, whereby a land is jointly owned by a group of villagers rather
than the local civil administration
Implementation of the restitution process has been delayed due to
uncertainty of how to implement the legislation. For example, it may be
difficult to restitute an area that formerly belonged to a community, as
many of the former owners or their descendants may have moved away from
the area and other people have moved in. Similarly, there is ongoing
debate concerning how to implement the law with respect to claims by
national church authorities for forests that were formerly owned by a
church that has since closed, and for churches that have been more
recently established. Despite these difficulties, the speed of
restitution is accelerating and extensive areas will be returned to the
various categories of private owners in the near future.
Evolving role of the National Forest Administration: Under the Ministry
of Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF), the Department of Forests (DOF),
is responsible for policy, legal, regulatory and supervisory functions on
all forest lands. Management responsibility, however, rests with the
National Forest Administration (NFA) which currently manages, on behalf of
Government, more than 85 percent of Romania's forests. This area will be
reduced dramatically after restitution. Since most of the forests which
will be returned to former owners are production forests, restitution will
- 4 -



significantly increase the proportion of non-revenue generating activities
undertaken by the NFA (such as the management of watershed protection
forests, many of which are areas rich in forest biodiversity) as a share
of its total expenditure. Restitution will have the added impact of
breaking up contiguous blocks of forest administered by NFA, thereby
making management more difficult and costly. Consequently, NFA is
expected to encounter difficulties in financing its public functions --
primarily maintaining and managing the State's protection forests -- using
its own decreasing revenue generating activities.
In the year 2000, NFA's revenues were US $172.73 million, including an
estimated US $32 million from non-timber forest products. The profit
outturn was equivalent to 9.3 percent on sales before interest and tax,
which compares poorly, for example, with returns of 24 percent and 21
percent for state-owned forest management authorities in Ireland and
Sweden. This apparent inefficiency relates partly to the large number of
non- revenue generating public service functions, including forest
protection, which NFA finances from its own revenues. Because NFA is
currently taxed on profit, there is an incentive to increase expenditure
rather than to generate profits. Additionally, there is currently no
obligation to pay the State a rent for the use of the forest resource or
to pay dividends to its primary shareholder (i.e., the State). Under
NFA's current accounting system, it is not possible to quantify and
compare the economic and fiscal costs and benefits associated with NFA's
public good and commercial functions in management of State forest
resources. To do this is not easy, as limited harvesting is permitted in
forests managed primarily for watershed protection. Consequently, there is
a risk that restitution will result in the inadequate allocation of
resources to public good functions and that fiscal benefits from the
management of productive State forests may not be fully captured.
Faced with the loss of large areas of production forests through
restitution, NFA is considering further diversification of its economic
activities to include more non-core forest management activities (some of
which might be more effectively undertaken by the private sector). In the
absence of a comprehensive and transparent accounting system, which
separates public good functions from commercial economic costs and
benefits, it is impossible to assess whether cross-subsidies from NFA's
existing and new diversified activities will be adequate for addressing
financial shortfalls. The lack of clarity in accounting practice allows
for allegations of inefficiency.
Timber Pricing Policy: Currently NFA sells timber through competitive
sealed bid tenders primarily for standing timber, and also for a limited
amount of timber felled and extracted to the roadside. The average annual
floor price for tenders is supervised by the Competition Office (which
answers to the Prime Minister's office) and is set by Government
Ordinance. The average floor price is calculated by taking the total
annual costs of the NFA plus an agreed profit margin, and dividing this
cost by the estimated volume of the annual harvest. The floor price for
individual tenders is set by local offices of NFA at a level above or
below the average floor price after taking the estimated value of the wood
to be sold (size, species and quality) into consideration. This method
for setting the average annual floor price for timber does not take into
account the market value of the wood or the harvesting costs borne by the
- 5 -



purchaser but does include the cost of non-commercial activities
undertaken by the NFA. The return to the state for the sale of its
resources is included (through the provision of the public services
undertaken by NFA and the profit margin) but is not quantifiable.
Consequently, the current timber pricing policy may not capture the market
value of the resource, and obscures State subsidies for public good
functions. There is a need to introduce a floor pricing system that would
reflect both the cost of production as well as market conditions, while
capturing rent for the management of state forest resources. The
calculation of floor prices should be revised to incorporate costs over
time to not only better capture the value of the resource, but also to
provide greater clarity about the extent to which revenues from the sale
of timber finance NFA's provision of public goods functions, such as
protected area and watershed catchment management.
Access to the forest resource: Forest roads are needed to provide access
for harvesting and forest management. A low density of forest roads
results in the need to skid (drag) logs longer distances from the point
where they are felled to a road where they can be loaded onto trucks.
From an environmental perspective, the longer skidding distance results in
erosion on arterial skidding trails. Further, damage to the forest floor
and standing trees is increased in proportion to the distance logs need to
be dragged. Low forest road density also encourages over-harvesting in
areas near to the road, since longer skidding distances also increase
harvesting costs. Consequently, a sub-optimal density of forest roads
results in greater environmental impacts, higher costs, and lower economic
returns from harvesting.
Romania has a network of different types of roads and railways that are
used for forest harvesting. These include: 32,500 km of forest roads; 65
km of forest railroads; 1,450 km of roads used for harvesting but which
were primarily intended to be used for other purposes (such as for mining
and to construct and service hydroelectric dams); and 7,600 km of public
roads in forests on which wood collection is permitted. The network was
mainly constructed during the period 1960-1985. Since 1994, when forest
roads became the responsibility of the NFA, some 365 km of forest roads
have been constructed, and 294 km rehabilitated. This network of
approximately 42,000 km, provides a density of 6.1 m/ha, of which only 4.7
m/ha are forest roads. As a result of heavy rains over the last several
years, the existing road network has deteriorated and 7,000 km of forest
roads have become inoperative, thereby further decreasing the degree of
accessibility and reducing the effective road density to around 5.3 m/ha.
This road density compares poorly with other European countries with
largely similar topography (e.g., Austria 36 m/ha, Switzerland 40 m/ha,
France 26 m/ha, Germany 45 m/ha). The NFA estimates that only 65t of
Romanian production forests are economically accessible.
In 2000, the European Union (EU) funded the upgrading of some forest roads
which provided access to villages under the Social Development Fund (SDF)
program. Romania's National Rural Development Plan, approved by the EU,
includes the provision of SAPARD funding for forest roads on private
lands. Even with this investment, the road density will still be
significantly less than the minimum level recommended by the FAO and the
Forest Research and Management Institute (ICAS) [reported in the 1993
'Forestry Sector Review', prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
- 6 -



Program]. More recently, NFA has undertaken feasibility studies for
upgrading of 600 km and construction of 430 km of new forest roads at an
estimated cost of US $42 million. Neither the State nor NFA have the
resources for this level of investment.
Low productivity in private wood processing industries: The timber
industry has traditionally focused on supplying markets in the former
Soviet Bloc and in the Middle East. One of the outcomes of this focus has
been that the industry specialized in producing large quantities of low
quality products -- market share which is now being met from other
sources -- and so these markets have disappeared over time. The industry
has never made the investment needed in new technologies to improve
extraction and processing, and so remains highly inefficient, and unable
to deliver product for higher value markets. There are a number of
associated issues, which include the inability of Small and Medium
Enterprises (SMEs) to access credit, and problems with respect to the
security of raw material supply. Nonetheless, the valued-added potential
of Romanian timber and timber products is substantial.
Inability of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to access credit
The inability of small and medium-sized wood harvesting and processing
firms to access loans for capital investment to replace outdated and
inefficient equipment relates partly to how legislation treated moveable
assets and inventory as collateral, and partly to lack of business
planning skills and awareness of opportunities to access credit. Recent
legislation (Law No. 99/2001) that allows for greater and more effective
use of assets as collateral is a positive step. However, in view of the
scale of investment required, and the current absence of adequate support
to SMEs in identifying and accessing sources of credit, the change in
legislation will have little immediate impact. The US $80 million World
Bank Rural Finance Project is expected to provide financing which could be
made available for investment in the forest industry. However, there is
an additional need to improve access to information about the availability
of existing and developing opportunities for financing forest industry
investments.
Security of raw material supply
Earlier, under the Forest Code (Law 26/24 of 1996), the NFA was not
allowed to enter into long-term contracts with processors to guarantee raw
material supply. This provision of the Forest Code was only recently
changed, and a Government Ordinance allowing long term contracts (up to 10
years) was approved by Cabinet in spring 2002. Although there have been
large investments in mills that utilize small wood, some investors have
not proceeded with investment plans because of uncertainties about
long-term supply. As restitution proceeds, a considerable proportion of
the production forest will be transferred to the private sector. This
would also allow forest owners associations to enter into long-term supply
contracts with small wood processors, which would be of benefit to the
forest owners and will likely create the environment for future
investment. Investors have already expressed interest in setting up joint
ventures for SMEs with groups of private forest owners.
Lack of coordination between growing and processing sectors:
Responsibility for supervision of the timber growing (silviculture and
forest management) sector rests with the MAFF, while the Ministry of
- 7 -



Industry (MoI) is responsible for supervision of the log transport and
wood processing sectors. This division of responsibility has resulted in
poor communication and in a lack of coordination across the forest sector,
acting to the detriment of the development of the sector as a whole.
There is a need to bring all of the sectors together to capitalize on
their potential to contribute to the national economy.
Legislation, Enforcement and Governance: There is relatively little
information known about the extent of corruption in the forest sector.
Some estimates have suggested that between 5 and 20 percent of the timber
on the market in Romania had been illegally harvested, but the basis for
these estimates was largely anecdotal and they are not reliable. Even so,
the failure to capture revenues as a result of corruption and illegal
harvesting increases the overall cost of management, and supports rates of
forest harvesting which are not consistent with generally accepted norms
of sustainable forest management.
The perception of corruption in the forestry sector is no doubt partly
fueled by the position of the NFA, which has long had control over
extensive and valuable forest assets, and has remained relatively
well-financed from its profits. Having said this, virtually no diagnostic
work has been carried out which has adequately characterized problems in
the sector, or which has sought to identify how these particular
challenges can be tackled.
Action on corruption in the forestry sector will have to be
forward-looking. The restitution of much of the revenue-producing forest
lands to private owners will have important impacts on the behavior of
both market players and the NFA. Future action will have to be responsive
to various behavioral changes likely to result from this fundamental
change in ownership rights. Success in addressing administrative failures
and state capture in Romania will require a broad-based program that
brings transparency and accountability to political life and to public
administration more generally, rather than to the forestry sector in
isolation. Government has placed a high priority on tackling the problem
of corruption by preparing and adopting its 'National Program for
Prevention of Corruption.'
Government Strategy
In 1992/93 with assistance from FAO and the World Bank, Government
undertook a review of the forest sector that identified key areas for
reform. In 1995, the Government developed a Forestry Strategy that
similarly identified key actions to guide forest sector reform. The
strategy did not, however, address the issue of restitution, nor an
integrated approach to sector development. In 1996, as part of its
Forestry Strategy, the Government promulgated the Forest Code (Law 26/24
April 1996) outlining general provisions for the protection and long-term
management of the national "Forestry Fund" (forest estate). In 1999,
Government prepared a first draft for a Silvicultural Strategy, which
primarily addresses the timber-growing sector and, as such, is limited in
scope. Also in 1999, in response to a Government request, the World Bank
augmented the 1992/93 forestry sector review, with a Forestry Sector Note,
which outlined the status, values and need for reforms in anticipation of
the planned forest restitution program.
- 8-



The 1999 Forestry Sector Note describes a three-phase strategy for reform
of the forestry sector, focusing on immediate, medium and long-term needs,
together with the rationale for actions needed to implement medium-term
priorities. The priority immediate need identified in the Sector Note was
the preparation of a comprehensive forestry sector policy and strategy.
With the assistance of the World Bank, Government facilitated the
participatory preparation of the National Forestry Policy and Strategy
(NFPS) over a ten-month period commencing in early 2000. The FDP is
designed to assist in implementation of the medium-term needs identified
in the Sector Note and articulated in the NFPS, which has recently been
adopted by Government.
In conjunction with the program outlined in the NFPS, Government has also
sought to strengthen its system of protected area management, and has
received resources from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to finance
its Biodiversity Conservation and Management Project (BCMP). This US $8.8
million project, launched in 1999, seeks to establish effective
intersectoral participatory planning and sustainable management of natural
ecosystems and associated landscapes at three demonstration sites in the
Carpathian mountains, and mechanisms to support replication of these
activities at other priority sites. The BCMP is a critical element of the
overall approach toward improving Romania's management of its forest
resources.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to maintain and improve environmentally
sustainable management of state and private forests so as to increase the
contribution to the national and rural economies derived from Romanian
forest resources.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has been working since 1993 with the former MWFEP and the
current MAFF and MWEP to characterize the issues that must be addressed in
reforming and developing the forestry sector and conserving forest
biological resources. As a result of this collaboration, the Bank has
developed a strong understanding of the needs of Romanian forestry sector
stakeholders. Sector-specific experience includes preparation of the 1993
FAO/World Bank Forestry Sector Review. The Bank subsequently undertook
further analysis to update the 1993 Forestry Sector Review and prepared
the 1999 Forestry Sector Note, which assesses the status, values and the
need for reform of the Romanian forestry sector. Concurrently, the Bank
has been working with Romanian forestry sector stakeholders to prepare and
implement the Biodiversity Conservation Management Project, which is
building new skills in participatory protected area and conservation
planning that the NFA will need in order to address aspects of its future
role of safeguarding the public interest in both State and private forest
lands. Under the World Bank/WWF Alliance for sustainable forest management
the Bank, has also assisted Romania to assess the potential for
establishing independent certification of forest management and the
products derived from its sustainably managed forests, and has undertaken
a regional review of the experience of forest land restitution and the new
institutional arrangements needed to maintain sustainable forest
management following land restitution. In addition, the Bank is currently
working with forestry sector counterparts to prepare or supervise forestry
projects or projects with a major focus on forestry in other countries in
-9-



the region, including: Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Georgia, Russia, and Turkey.
Successful reform and development of the Romanian forestry sector, while
maintaining sustainable conservation and management of these valuable
State and private forest assets, will be reliant on establishing effective
public/private sector partnerships, and facilitating the constructive
participation of the donor, NGO and academic communities. In view of its
extensive experience in forestry and rural development in Romania and the
region, the Bank is uniquely positioned to facilitate the holistic
approach necessary for reform and development of the Romanian forestry
sector.
4. Description
The FDP will assist MAFF to: (a) establish systems to ensure sustainable
management of private forest lands, through building of the capacity of
the Department of Forests and its Forest Inspectorate, supporting the
development of private forest owners associations, and establishing a
forest management information and monitoring system; (b) mitigate the
consequences of restitution on the management of State forest lands by
assisting NFA to maintain, develop and finance its important role in
managing protection forests, and reduce the environmental impacts and
improve the economic efficiency of managing State production forests by
piloting new, environmentally sensitive, forest road construction
practices; (c) support increased productivity and competitiveness of
forest industries, through establishing and operating a Forest Sector
Business Information Center; and (d) build public support for sustainable
forest management by implementing a public awareness program targeting key
stakeholders with an emphasis on new private forest owners. The project is
comprised of five components:
Component 1: Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private
Forest Lands (US $10.05 million) through:
(a) Strengthening of the Department of Forests, with emphasis on the
nationwide Forest Inspectorate and support service, within MAFF to
supervise, regulate and monitor sustainable forest management activities
in private and state forest lands, as well as provide extension and
advisory services to meet the needs of the new private forest owners. The
project will provide the physical resources needed by the DOF's Forest
Inspectorate to become effectively operational, including: (a) office
furniture and equipment, including computers, software, printers, fax
machines etc, for headquarters and for the Inspectorates 16 branch offices
and 100 forest districts; (b) field equipment, including measurement and
survey equipment needed to enable staff to undertake necessary
supervisory, monitoring and control activities; (c) vehicles needed to
enable staff undertake the necessary field inspections; and (e) training
equipment to support the development of an in-house training capacity;
(b) Support for the Development of National and Local Associations of
Private Forest Owners, through MAFF by providing for the establishment and
operation of national and local associations of private forest owners,
including providing assistance for the development of membership profiles,
recruitment plans, service-delivery profiles, business development plans,
and capacity building for financial and procurement management through the
- 10 -



provision of training and services. At the local level, the project will
provide support through targeted community development assistance in areas
with high levels of poverty where forest lands will be restituted to
individual owners, joint common owners and communal owners (at the village
and commune level) and who currently have limited capacity to organize;
and
(c) Establishing a national forest management information and monitoring
system (FMIMS), consisting of a broad package of software, including both
'off-the-shelf' packages and specialized, to-be-designed, applications,
and associated hardware. The FMIMS is needed by the Forest Inspectorate
for supervision and control to ensure sustainable management and
development of the forest sector, by providing updated and integrated
access to forest management plans, cadastre, laws and regulations, forest
inventory and biodiversity, data on the flow of forest products, and
statistics on forest industries and trade.
Component 2: Mitigate the Consequences of Restitution on Management of
State Forest Land (US $19.24 million) by:
(a) Supporting Reform and Strategic Development of the NFA through
preparing and assisting NFA to implement a strategic plan to develop and
finance its role in managing State forests. This will be achieved through:
(i) identifying, quantifying and separating the costs and benefits of the
public good and economic functions of NFA, and preparing a financial
accounting system to ensure that all activities are adequately resourced;
(ii) preparing and assisting with implementation of a plan for reforming
and strengthening the institutional capacity to improve operational and
commercial efficiency, thereby optimizing revenue generation from
production forest, while safeguarding the public interest and ecological
services provided by protection and production forests; (iii) developing a
detailed, phased and costed action plan for NFA's non-core activities, for
either privatization or development, including provision of management
services to the new private sector; (iv) assisting NFA to define its
information management system requirements to support its strategic
development, and providing the hardware and software necessary for an
interactive link with the national forest management information and
monitoring system that the project will establish within the Department of
Forests (see above); (v) establishing an objective and auditable process
for determining reserve pricing for timber auctions; and (vi) providing
logistical support in terms of vehicles and equipment required to manage
the forest protected area network, which is being developed with the
assistance of the ongoing Biodiversity Conservation Management Project;
and
(b) Rehabilitating and extending the forest road network, on a pilot
basis, to improve the economic viability of wood harvesting in
State-managed production forests, and to test approaches toward reducing
the negative environmental impacts of forest road construction.
Investments in road construction and rehabilitation are expected to have a
positive impact on the economic performance of the NFA and will help
offset the increased costs which are expected to be incurred by the NFA as
its relative responsibilities for the maintenance of protection forests
increases with the restitution of production forests. All the locations
of all road sub-projects will be selected through a process of
- 11 -



environmental, social and economic screening and impact assessment. 'Best
Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads' will be prepared in the first year
of implementation and will be included in tender documents/contracts for
international and national competitive bidding to ensure both competitive
pricing and that environmentally sound construction and rehabilitation
techniques are used. Compliance with these Guidelines will be
independently monitored by mechanisms established by the project. The
development and use of the Best Practice Guidelines would guide the
engineering process for a series of roads rehabilitation and roads
extension sub-projects, in a series of tranches, expected to comprise
around 10 km of new roads construction (in 4 sub-projects) and 425 km of
roads and railway infrastructure rehabilitation (in around 53
sub-projects). As a pilot activity, proposed roads subprojects represent
a very small fraction of the total length of forest roads or associated
harvesting and extraction infrastructure in Romania -- less than 1.5
percent of the total existing network.
Roads rehabilitation is unlikely to have a significant impact on planned
harvesting rates, because harvesting rates in state forests (the Annual
Allowable Cut) have already been established as a result of detailed
forest management plans. These rates of exploitation would continue with
or without project support. The primary benefit of the roads
rehabilitation work would be to reduce the costs of extraction, to
increase producer margins and market competitiveness, and to reduce the
environmental damage which has been an outcome of continued logging on
poorly maintained roads. Roads targeted for rehabilitation are primarily
those which were damaged as a result of recent heavy rains, landslides,
and floods.
New forest roads would primarily be extensions of existing roads into
forests which are already under management. These do not pass through
isolated undisturbed forests. Many of these areas are already being
intensively exploited using an extensive network of extremely damaging
skidding trails. The overall impact of the roads included in the program
will be to reduce the dependence on skidding trails for extraction.
Exploitation in these areas will continue with or without project
support. No forest road will be built in a national park or protected
area.
Project design has incorporated robust and sound safeguards. The
development of Best Practice Guidelines through an open, participatory and
consultative process (considering environmental and social concerns) sets
an important precedent for road design and construction in Romania. The
Guidelines will guide the design of all new and rehabilitated roads. Once
roads redesign has been completed, roads sub-projects will be screened
again for their likely environmental impact. Those not meeting
environmental and social screening criteria would be rejected or subject
to an individual Environmental Assessment which will identify mitigation
steps.
Component 3: Support Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest
Industries (US $0.72 million) by: establishing the Forest Sector Business
Information Center (ForsBIC), an independent business development and
advisory service, which will establish linkages and coordination within
the forest industry chain (i.e., silviculture, harvesting, transport,
- 12 -



primary and secondary processing), and provide assistance to wood and
related forest industries, through review and dissemination of information
on new technologies, markets and prices, export and hygiene requirements,
product promotion and branding, opportunities for joint venture
partnerships, and the availability of grants, and credit, etc. The
project will finance a portion of the basic goods (hardware and software,
office supplies, etc.) required for the establishment of the center, and
will finance some of the incremental operating costs, on a declining scale
during project implementation.
Component 4: Building Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management (US
$0.69 million) through preparing and implementing a public awareness
strategy and campaign targeting key stakeholders including the general
public, with particular emphasis on communities living in forested areas;
private forest owners; Forest Inspectorate staff; NFA; Government decision
makers, and other influential groups including the churches and NGOs.
Implementation of the program will be supported by an inter-ministerial
committee including the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Education,
Waters and Environmental Protection, Culture, Tourism and Public
Administration. Campaign strategies will include: educating mass media;
providing public relations guidance to Forest Inspectorate staff;
developing educational and promotional materials for use in schools;
organizing local education events; supporting awareness campaigns at the
local level; involvement of environmental NGOs in educational projects;
and support for the PMU to develop their public relations capacity and
inform key decision makers of the status of project implementation. The
public awareness campaign will undertake regular assessments of
stakeholder perceptions, which will be used to refine the implementation
of the campaign in line with changing requirements.
Component 5: Project Management and Monitoring (US $1.19 million) will be
undertaken by a Project Management Unit (PMU), that will include a
manager, two technical specialists (roads and public awareness), a
procurement officer, a financial management specialist and an assistant.
The PMU will oversee and support implementation of all program activities
in accordance with agreed monitorable indicators.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $2.01
IBRD $25.00
IDA
BORROWING AGENCY $0.30
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY $4.59
Total Project Cost $31.89
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a period of 6 years.
A Project Oversight Committee (POC) consisting of experts from the DOF,
MAFF, Ministry of Public Finance (MPF), and NFA, as well as
representatives of civil society will be established by MAFF. The
committee will be responsible for providing project oversight advice and
assistance in resolving issues associated with project implementation. The
Secretary of State for Forests in MAFF will be the chairman of the
- 13 -



committee. With respect to implementation of the public awareness
campaign, inter-sectoral cooperation will be promoted through the
establishment of a consultative group, comprised of representatives at the
technical level from MAFF, and the Ministries of Industry and Commerce;
Education; Waters and Environmental Protection; Tourism; Culture; and
Public Administration; and representatives of civil society.
Project Management at the National Level: MAFF will have overall
responsibility for the project, including procurement, disbursement,
maintenance of project accounts and coordination of implementation.
Implementation of the project will be managed on behalf of MAFF by a
Project Management Unit (PMU), which will consist of a project
coordinator, a procurement specialist, a financial manager, two technical
specialists (one for public communications and one with expertise in
forest road construction and maintenance) and an assistant. The staff of
the PMU will be appointed on a contractual basis at market competitive
rates.
Project Management Sharing Between the FDP and the Biodiversity
Conservation Management Project (BCMP): Preparation of the FDP was
supervised and coordinated by the World Bank/GEF financed BCMP Project
Management Unit (PMU), which includes a project coordinator, financial
manager, and a procurement specialist who have been effectively
implementing the BCMP since October 1999. In order to economize on
project costs, build on the knowledge base developed during preparation
and implementation of the BCMP and preparation of the FDP, and ensure
staff continuity and linkages between the BCMP and the FDP, the existing
PMU will continue to manage implementation of the FDP and will be financed
by the BCMP until its closing date. The two new technical specialist
members of the PMU (roads and communications) will be financed by the FDP
from project effectiveness, and all PMU staff will be financed by the FDP
after the closing date of the BCMP.
Project Implementation at the National Level: Through the PMU, the
Department of Forests within MAFF, and the NFA, will be responsible for
carrying out project activities at the national level.
Project Implementation at the County Level: Through the PMU, the
Department of Forests and the National Forest Administration will be
responsible for carrying out all project activities at the County level.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: Monitoring and evaluation of
project activities will be undertaken by the PMU, and will be subject to
periodic review by the Bank. The PMU will establish project monitoring
and evaluation procedures acceptable to the Bank, and will furnish the
Bank with biannual project progress reports, together with work programs
inclusive of detailed monitoring indicators for the following six month
period. A mid-term evaluation, which will focus on the effectiveness,
impact and appropriateness of project activities with respect to the
nature and pace of forest land restitution, will be undertaken during the
third year (June 30, 2005), and restructuring of project activities would
follow if appropriate. Lessons learned from implementation of project
activities will be recorded in a report prepared by the borrower with the
assistance of the PMU.
- 14 -



Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was
undertaken in December 2001 and revised in October 2002 to determine
whether the financial management arrangements within the PMU are
acceptable to the Bank. It is concluded that the systems, procedures and
staff within the Project Management Unit (PMU) satisfy the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements.
Financial Reporting. The PMU will ensure the preparation and distribution
of consolidated periodic progress reports to the relevant government
institutions, including the World Bank, to reflect: (i) sources and uses
of funds, by component and activity; (ii) project progress; and (iii)
procurement activities. In this context, the PMU will prepare quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), which would be submitted to the Bank
within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The first quarterly FMRs will
be submitted at the end of the first quarter after project Effectiveness.
Audit Arrangements. The PMU would be responsible for ensuring that the
Project financial statement, Special Accounts (SA), and Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. The PMU
will maintain responsibility for the management of project funds and the
Special Account. They will monitor and keep track of the use of funds.
The audit will cover all funds related to the project, including
counterpart funds, for all project components. The PMU will carry out the
annual audit in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the Bank. The audited financial
statements, the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year
will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
The TOR for the audit has been agreed with the PMU.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Loan will be made based on
traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the Special Account with
reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account). The proceeds
of the World Bank Loan will be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex
6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish,
maintain and operate a special account under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
7. Sustainability
The objective of the project is to ensure the long-term sustainable
management of Romania's forest resources and development of associated
forest based industries.
Institutional sustainability will be ensured by strengthening the existing
supervisory and regulatory functions of MAFF through training and
provision of the national forest database and monitoring system.
Environmental sustainability will be addressed through consolidation of
forest management plans and environmental data at national level, and the
introduction of environmental guidelines for improving physical
infrastructure.
Financial sustainability of Government's role in forestry sector functions
will be supported by the project through: (a) reform of NFA and payment to
state of a rent or dividend to support other state functions in relation
- 15 -



to forestry; and (b) increased tax revenue from an expansion of the
economic activity within the sector.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from forestry programs in Europe and around the world suggest
that:-
The early involvement of key stakeholders from across the forestry sector
in project concept design and preparation is essential in order to ensure
ownership and build lasting commitment to successful project
implementation., e.g., reform of the state forest sector in Latvia, which
separated ownership, supervisory and regulatory functions following a
consultative process that developed agreed policy and strategy and
resulted in ownership and political will to implement the reforms.
Forest sector projects that address a small number of clearly identified,
understandable priority objectives have a greater probability of success
than do projects attempting to address all sector issues, e.g., the EU
Polish Forestry Development Program that addressed six clear issues and
was implemented within budget and on time.
Establishing the institutional capacity for supervision and regulation of
new private forest owners is, by itself, insufficient to ensure
sustainable forest management. Regulatory capacity needs to be
complemented with a targeted awareness raising, and educational programs
that inform new owners and associated communities of the benefits of
sustainable forest management and the means to achieve them. A good
example of this is Hungary, where the presence of a Forest Inspectorate
prior to restitution did not preempt over-harvesting in areas where new
owners were unaware of their responsibilities and long term opportunities.
The rationale, benefits and objectives of the project can be made known to
all stakeholders, if not through active participation in project
preparation, then through effective public awareness programs.
Where multiple options for addressing problems exist, project
implementation should assist clients and beneficiaries to select the most
appropriate solutions for local conditions, thereby building the
awareness, capacity and skills necessary for success.
World Bank experience with the Romania country portfolio indicates that:
Key stakeholder awareness and support of all proposed policy and
institutional reforms should be established early in project
implementation in order to preempt delays that could result from special
interest group lobbies. Project preparation included multistakeholder,
participatory preparation of a new National Forest Policy and Strategy.
Financial institutions have been reluctant to assume the risk of lending
to forest enterprises due to limited financial history. The Bank is
working with GOR to support financial sector reform, and the FDP will help
forest sector clients to develop financially attractive business plans,
become more competitive, and reduce financial risk ratings.
- 16 -



There is a need to hire adequately qualified and motivated professional
project management and specialist staff at market rates of pay in order to
ensure effective project implementation.
The proposed program will incorporate these experiences and build on them,
specifically by: (a) ensuring that the inclusive and participatory
approach adopted during sector work and project preparation is continued
throughout project implementation; (b) communicating the purpose and
progress of project activities to stakeholders across the forest sector;
(c) building national and local capacity for sustainable management of the
forest resource; and (d) involving the existing BCMP Project Management
Unit in managing FDP implementation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Romania's forests provide many important functions,
including biodiversity habitat, watershed protection, recreation and
tourism and the sustainable production of timber and non-timber forest
products. A major goal of the project is to ensure that these goods and
services are maintained after forested areas are restituted and,
subsequently, managed by new private forest owners. A second objective of
the project is to test out approaches for reducing environmental impacts
associated with harvesting, for example, from extensive soil erosion which
accompanies the use of skidding trails, by improving the forest road
network. Previous experience in Romania and elsewhere has shown that
potential environmental impacts associated with restitution of forest
lands can be significant. Because forest road construction and
rehabilitation has the potential for either negative or beneficial
environmental impact, the project was assigned as Environmental Category
"A" requiring full public disclosure and consultation. Consequently, in
accordance with World Bank policy for Environmental Category A projects,
an independent Environmental Assessment (EA) was completed prior to
Appraisal, and its findings were used to refine project design. Public
comment on the draft TORs for Environmental Assessment was solicited
through two mechanisms: four public meetings were convened (3 regional
meetings and one at the national level) to review the TORs. Notice of
these meetings was published in two national newspapers ("Adevarul" and
"Romania Libera"), and in the forestry magazine ("Padurea Noastra"), and
written comments were solicited by announcement in two national newspapers
("Adevarul" and " Romania Libera"), the forestry magazine ("Padurea
Noastra") and on the Ministry's website. The consultations on the draft
TORs were held in Piatra Neamt, Targoviste, and Arad on October 2, 3, and
4, 2000 respectively, and in Bucharest on October 6, 2000.
Two additional consultations on the draft and final Environmental
Assessment were carried out. The first one was in compliance with World
Bank OP 4.01 which requires consultations on the draft EA, and the second
was carried out before Appraisal, in compliance with Bank disclosure
requirements also outlined in World Bank OP 4.01. Participation in these
consultations was solicited by invitation and by public notice, published
in the national newspaper ("Adevarul"), and on the MAFF website. The
first consultation was held in Poiana Brasov from July 26 to 28, 2001, and
the second consultation was held in Brasov on September 22, 2001.
The draft and final Environmental Assessment was made available in Romania
via MAFF, the PMU, and local NFA offices in counties likely to be affected
- 17 -



by roads rehabilitation and construction (identified from the initial list
of priority roads.) Notice of the availability of the draft and final
Environmental Assessments was published in the main national newspaper
("Adevarul"), and on the project's website (www.forestier.ro). The
Environmental Assessment was posted, in Romanian, on the project's
website, as well as through the World Bank Infoshop (where it was posted,
in English, on October 31, 2001). The World Bank Project Information
Document was originally posted in December 1999, and was updated in March
2002. From December 2001 Government released the draft Project Appraisal
Document to institutions or individuals requesting it, and subsequently
posted it on the project website in January 2002 where it remains freely
available in English and with a summary in Romanian. A Romanian
translation of the full EA was also made available via MAFF and the PMU
and the project's website.
Significant issues identified in the EA included the need for the project
to: (a) ensure continued sustainable forest management practice on
restituted forest land through supervision and support by Government and
education of new forest owners, and (b) reduce the environmental impacts
of forest harvesting (primarily, erosion associated with the use of long
skidding trails) by improving forest road access, and (c) mitigate
potential environmental impacts of forest road construction and
maintenance through establishing environmental screening, assessment, and
mitigation procedures and measures.
The EA recommended that various steps should be incorporated into the
project to strengthen the role of the Forest Inspectorates through
training and capacity building; to improve the overall framework for
regulation and enforcement; to assist the private sector in developing
long term sustainable management of restituted forests; to develop Best
Practice Guidelines for forest roads construction and rehabilitation; to
incorporate screening, impact assessment, and mitigation in the
identification of sub-projects to be financed by the project; and to
implement this approach on a pilot scale. These approaches were all
consistent with the design of the project.
In response to subsequent correspondence with President Wolfensohn from
CEE Bankwatch in February 2002, it was agreed that a further NGO
consultation should be convened to provide an opportunity for further
discussion about the project and concerns which had been raised. CEE
Bankwatch provided a list of NGOs which should be invited. Correspondence
to President Wolfensohn from a group of Romanian NGOs followed, and these
NGOs were also invited by MAFF to the consultation. The consultation was
held on March 21, 2002 in Brasov. Participants at the consultation
recommended that the EA could be improved and that additional information
which had been generated as a result of the Appraisal process should be
made available, and it was agreed that the EA would be updated in a manner
which incorporated this information. The EA Update was made publicly
available on September 20, 2002. The EA Update confirmed the original
Environmental Assessment's findings and its recommendations, and noted
that it was unlikely there would be any positive environmental impacts of
the 'without' project scenario, and reflected the view that project
activities would be quite important for mitigating some of the negative
environmental impacts of the planned restitution program. The EA Update
made no new recommendations for mitigating potential negative
- 18 -



environmental impacts of the project, however, it did note that wider
sectoral concerns with respect to governance and corruption in the
forestry sector should be addressed by a diagnostic study, which is to be
independently financed and implemented. The results from the governance
study will be used to provide guidance for action in the sector, within
the wider framework of Government's National Anticorruption strategy. On
October 29, 2002, Mr. Wolfensohn received correspondence from a group of
15 Romanian civil society organizations expressing strong support for the
FDP, endorsing the priorities identified for FDP financing, and urging the
Bank to move forward with approval of the proposed loan.
Recommendations arising from the EA process and included in the EMP were
either already addressed in the project design or were, subsequently,
incorporated in final design of the project. These included expanding and
targeting environmental training programs for the Forest Inspectorate,
NFA, and ForsBIC, and ensuring that ForsBIC will provide information and
advice on clean forest industry production techniques and the availability
of environmentally sustainable technologies. With respect to the roads
program, the design of proposed sub-projects will be guided by standards
described in a Best Practice Manual, which will be prepared during the
first project year, and this will be followed by a new and more stringent
environmental, social and economic screening process which will be
undertaken of all proposed forest roads construction and rehabilitation
sub-projects. The screening process will identify all new road or
rehabilitation projects that should be subject to more in depth
environmental assessment. The EA also elaborated the Terms of Reference
for a forest roads expert to be assigned to work within the Project
Management Unit.
The EMP is detailed, wide ranging and is adequate for mitigating potential
negative environmental impacts resulting from the FDP.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Peter A. Dewees
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 19 -



