E493
Volume 2
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests,
Romania
Romania Forest Development Project:
Environmental Assessment Update
Volunme I
Summary and Main Report
September 2002
Environmental Resources Management
8 Cavendish Square, London WlM OER
Telephone 020 7465 7200
Facsimile 020 7465 7272
Email post@ermuk.com
http://www.ermuk.com
in association with Intergroup Engineering SRL, Romania



Romania Forest Development Project:
Environmental Assessnient Update
September 2002
This report has been prepared by Environmental Resources
Management the trading name of Environmental Resources
Management Limited, with all reasonable skill, care and diligence
within the terms of the Contract with the client, incorporating our
General Terms and Conditions of Business and taking account of the
resources devoted to it by agreement with the client.
We disclaim any responsibility to.the client and others in respect of
any matters outside the scope of the above.
This report is confidential to the client and we accept no responsibility
of whatsoever nature to third parties to whom this report, or any part
thereof, is made known. Any such party relies on the report at their
own nsk.
In line with our company environmental policy we purchase paper for
our documents only from ISO 14001 certified or EMAS verified
manufacturers. This includes paper with the Nordic Environmental
Label.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT                                                 MINISFRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



ACRONYMS AND NAMES
AAC                 Annual Allowable Cut
AGV                 Association of Hunters
AGVPS               Association of Hunters and Fishermen
ALFO                Association of Local Forest Owners
ANT                 National Tourism Authoritv
ANTREC              National Association for Rural Tourism
APM                 Environmental Protection Agency
APMR                Association of Romanian Fumiture Producers
APPR                Association of Private Forest Owners
APPR                Association of Private Forest Owners
ASFOR               Association of Romanian Foresters
Asociatia"Stejarul"  "Oak" Association
DoF                 Department of Forests
DS                  County Branch, National Forest Administration
DSPL                Directorate for Strategy, Policy and Legislation, Dept. of Forests
EA                  Environmental Assessment (equivalent to EIA)
EIA                 Environmental Impact Assessment (equivalent to EA)
EMP                 Environmental Management Plan
ERM                 Environmental Resources Management (consultancv)
EU                  European Union
FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organization
FDP                 Forest Development Project
Fl                  Forest Inspectorate
FMIMS               Forest Management Information and Monitoring System
FMP                 Forest Management Plan
ForsBIC             Forest Business Information Center
Fortech             FORTECH - FDP project preparation consultant
FSC                 Forest Stewardship Council
GDF                 General Directorate of Forests
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
GIS                 Geographic Information System
GOR                 Government of Romania
IBA                 Important Bird Area
IC                  Institutional Change
ICAS                Forest Management and Research Institute (Institutul de Cercetari si
Amenajari Silvice)
INL                 Wood Institute (Institutu National al Leminuhu)
IT                  Information Technology
MAFF                Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests
MIS                 Management Information System
Mol                 Ministry of Industry
MWEP                Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection
MWFEP               Ministry of Water, Forests and Environmental Protection
NFA                 National Forest Administration
NFPS                National Forest Policy and Strategy
NTFP                Non-timber Forest Product
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT                               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FooD AND FORESTS



ACRONYMS AND NAMES
PCT                 Project Coordination Team
PFOA                Private Forest Owners Associations
PM                  Project Management Group Ltd. (consultancy)
POC                 Project Oversight Committee
PPT                 Project Preparation Team
RNP                 Regiei Nationale a Padurilor (see also NFA)
ROMPAP              Association of Romanian Pulp and Paper Producers
SAPARD              Special Accession Program for Rural Development
SDF                 Social Development Fund
SFM                 Sustainable Forest Management
SME                 Small and Medium-scaled Enterprise
TOR                 Terms of Reference
WB                  World Bank
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT                                 NtISrRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Romania Forest Development Project:
Environmental Assessment Update
PREFACE
This Environmental Assessment Update was prepared to provide additional information
about the proposed Romania Forest Development Project which was not available at the
time when work on the original Environmental Assessment was completed and made
available in October 2001. (The EA was actually finalized on October 9, 2001, but its final
version was not made publicly available until later in the month).
The original Environmental Assessment was prepared by ERM and Intergroup Engineering
Romania. This Update has been prepared by staff commissioned by the Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Forests in cooperation with ERM and Intergroup on the basis of
additional inputs prepared for the Project Appraisal Mission (which took place from
October 14 to 26, 2001) and which had not been available at the time the EA was finalized.
The Update includes all the information outlined in the original Environmental Assessment.
It does not substantively change any of the findings from the original Environmental
Assessment, but seeks to address concerns with respect to incomplete information in the
original EA which were raised during subsequent consultations with Romanian NGOs. It
also seeks to clarify some of the issues which were not clear in the original Environmental
Assessment. It draws on additional material prepared for the project.
There have been numerous consultations and public discussions about this Environmental
Assessment, and these are summarized in Appendix 3: Consultationis and Disclosure witil
respect to project preparation and in relation to preparation of the Environmenltal Assessment of thte
Forest Development Project. These include public consultations about the Terms of Reference
for the Environmental Assessment (which were held in Piatra Neamt, Targoviste, Arad, and
Bucharest in October 2000), and about the draft and final Environmental Assessment (held
in Brasov in July 2001 and in September 2001). In addition, the Ministry sought comments
on the process by soliciting these through announcements in the press.
Extensive information about the project has been made available on the project's website
(www.forestier.ro), including (and unusually) the full version of the draft Project Appraisal
Document, since January 2002.
Additional concerns were raised about the project and the Environmental Assessment
following Appraisal, which had not been voiced during the initial and extensive period of
consultation leading to project preparation and to preparation of the Environmental
ENVIRONMENTAL RE5OURCES MANAGEMENT                    MINISTRY OF AGRICULTIJRE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Assessment. In December 2001, the Romanian project preparation team met with concerned
local NGOs to discuss these issues more fully. Subsequent correspondence from CEE
Bankwatch and a group of 17 Romanian NGOs with World Bank President James D.
Wolfensohn indicated continuing concern about the project and the Environmental
Assessment. This correspondence is included with this Update in Volume II, Annex 4.
During another NGO consultation convened in Brasov, on March 21, 2002, it was agreed that
there was scope for improving the original Environmental Assessment. The meeting made
the following suggestions for improvement, which have been incorporated into the Terms of
Reference for this Update (See Appendix- 2: Ternis of Reference for Environmiental Assessmient
Update):
*  Include information which was not fully reported upon, particularly with respect to
fuller information about the project, the location of the initial list of roads targeted for
rehabilitation or construction, changes to the legal framework which may impact
project implementation, information about the consultation process which was used
both to inform preparation of the project and to improve the Environmental
Assessment, maps (for those roads which have preliminarily been identified for
rehabilitation or construction) and other information about initiatives with respect to
public activities to conserve biodiversity (including the GEF-financed Biodiversity
Conservation Management Project);
*  Incorporate the text and recommendations which are outlined in Annex IIA of the
original Environmental Assessment ['Initial Report on Environmiental Aspects of Forest
Roads Component' prepared by Fortech, Dames and Moore, and Project Management
(Ireland)] into the Environmental Assessment as an integral part of it, to develop
binding recommendations during roads construction and rehabilitation;
*  Consider more fully the likely direct and indirect impacts of project investments on
harvesting, based on information which is available, and develop and describe
actions to mitigate these impacts where they are not consistent with sustainable
forest management practices;
*  To the extent possible, examine the risks to project performance associated with
illegal harvesting and problems of governance, and propose steps to reduce these
risks;
* add more information about the project alternatives considered and the reasons for
their rejection (particularly in the context of the National Forest Policy and Strategy).
*  Describe in detail the steps taken to publicly disclose information about the project,
as well as the steps taken to disclose and consult with key stakeholders during
preparation of the original Environmental Assessment.
This Update seeks to provide clarification about these issues.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT                    MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Romania Forest Development Project:
Environmental Assessment Update
TABLE OF CONTENTS
VOLUME 1: SUMMARY AND MAIN REPORT
SUMMARY .......                                                                    I
1. INTRODUCTION                                     ..I
1.1 PROJECT BACKGROUND..1
1.2    NEED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT                                    2
1.3    SCOPE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT.                               3
1.4 STUDYAPPROACH AND METHODOLOGY.                                          5
1.5 CONTENTS OF THIS REPORT.                                                6
2.     POLICY, LEGAL, AND INSTITUTONAL FRAMEWORK                 ...                9
2.1 POLICYANDLEGISLATIN..                                                   9
2.1.1. Forest Policy.                                                 9
2.1.2. Environmental Policy and Strategy .12
2.1.3. Environmental Impact Assessment .13
2.1.4. Policies Toward Biodiversity and Protected Area Management .16
2.2   INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR FOREST CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT IN
ROMANIA              .               .19
2.2.1. Department of Forests .19
2.2.2. National Forest Administration .23
2.2.3. Non-governmental Organizations .25
2.3 KEY SECTORAL ISSUES            ..27
2.3.1. Overview .27
2.3.2. Restitution of Forest Lands .27
2.3.3. Evolving Role of the National Forest Administration .28
2.3.4. Timber Pricing Policy .29
2.3.5. Access to Forest Resources .29
2.3.6. Low Productivity in Primary Wood Processing Industries .30
2.3.7. Legislation, Enforcement and Governance .31
3.     THE PROPOSED FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                .     .33
3.1    PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND OVERVEW     .      .33
3.2 PROJECT COMPONETS               ..33
3.2.1. Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest
Lands (Component 1)..          I                              34
3.2.2. Mitigate the Consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest
Land (Component 2) ...............                            39
3.2.3. Support Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest Industries
(Component 3) ...............                                 44
3.2.4. Building Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management (Component
4) ...............                                            45
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



3.2.5.  Project Management and Monitoring (Component 5) ...................................... 46
3.3    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION              .    .      46
3.4    ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF THE FDP ...................................................  47
3.4.1.  Environmental Benefits: ..................................................  47
3.4.2.  Economic Benefits ..................................................  48
3.4.3.  Social Benefits ..................................................   49
3.4.4.  Institutional Benefits .................................................. 50
4.      BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS .                     .................................. 51
4.1 INTRODUCTION ............... 51
4.2     THE FOREST SECTOR ...............                                           51
4.2.1.  Introduction ..................                                      51
4.2.2.  Forest Resources ..................                                  52
4.2.3.  Forest Management ..................                                 53
4.2.4.  Forest Production ..................                                 54
4.2.5.  Trends in Resource Use ..................                            58
4.2.6.  Forest Certification ..................                               59
4.2.7.  Illegal Harvesting .................. 60
4.2.8.  Forest Land Ownership .................. 60
4.3     ENVIRONMENTAL CONTEXT ..........................                             60
4.3.1.  Flora and Fauna .........................                             60
4.3.2  Geology and Soils .........................                            62
4.4.    SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT ..........          ............... 63
5.     FDP'S CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS AND
MITIGATION MEASURES                                    .         .         .         67
5.1    INTRODUCTION ..................................................................  67
5.2.   ESTABLISH SYSTEMS TO ENSURE SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF PRIVATE FOREST LANDS
(COMPONENTI 1..70
5.2.1. Likely Environmental Impacts .70
5.2.2. Mitigation Measures .71
5.3    MITIGATE THE CONSEQUENCES OF RESTITUTION ON MANAGEMENT OF STATE FOREST
LAND (COMPONENT 2)              ..73
5.3.1. Likely Environmental Impacts .74
5.3.2. Mitigation Measures .84
5.4     SUPPORT INCREASED PRODUCTIVITY AND COMPETITIVENESS OF FOREST INDUSTRIES
(COMPONENT 3) ..                                                             103
5.4.1. Likely Environmental Impacts .                                        103
5.4.2 Mitigation Measures .                                                  103
5.5     BUILDING PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT (COMPONENT 4)
............................................................................................................................................... .104
5.5.1.  Likely Environmental Impacts ..................................................................   104
5.5.2  Mitigation Measures ..................................................................  105
5.6     PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING (COMPONENT5)           .     ........................... 105
5.6.1. Likely Environmental Impacts ..................................................................   105
5.6.2  Mitigation Measures ..................................................................  105
5.7     LIKELY SOCIAL IMPACTS OF PROJECT INVESTMENTS .......................................................... 106
5.7.1. Income and Employment ..................................................................  106
5.7.2.  Access to Resources ..................................................................  106
5.7.3.  Additional Social Issues ..................................................................  107
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT                               MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



6.     PROJECTALTERNATIVES                       .        .        .................. 109
6.1    THE PROJECT IDENTIFICATION PROCESS AND THE NFPS PROCESS .................  109
6.2    STRENGTHENING THE STATUS QUO ......................   ........................... 109
6.3    OPTIONS FOR DEVELOPING THE FOREST ROAD NETWORK ............................................... 110
6.4    THE 'WITHOUT PROJECT' SCENARIO        ................................................. 11]
6.4.1. Likely impacts of restitution ............................................................  111
6.4.2.  Establishing Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest
Lands and Building Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management:
Analysis of Components 1 and 4 ............................................................   119
6.4.3. Mitigation of the Consequences of Restitution on Management of State
Forest Lands: Analysis of Component 2 ........................................................... 125
6.4.4.  Support for Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest
Industries: Analysis of Component 3 ............................................................ 131
7.     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTAND MONITORING PLAN                        .  ................... 133
7.1    INTRODUCTION .......................................................................  133
7.2    MEASURES RELEVANT TO IMPLEMENTING THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.. 133
7.2.1  Involvement of the Civil Society and the Private Sector ............................... 133
7.2.2. Institutional issues .......................................................................  134
APPENDICES .145
APPENDIX 1: RESPONSIBILMIES FOR PREPARATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE
FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT .146
APPENDIX 2: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT UPDATE .147
APPENDIX 3: CONSULTATIONS AND DISCLOSURE WITH RESPECT TO PROJECT PREPARAT7ON AND IN
RELATION TO PREPARATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE FOREST
DEVELOPMENTPROJECT .                                                     153
APPENDIX 4: PROTECTED AREAS OF ROMANIA (MAP, LOCATION, AREA) .                  174
APPENDIX 5: PRELIMINARY LIST OF ROADS REHABILITATION AND CONSTRUCnON SUB-PROJECTS
AND MAPS .                                                               177
APPENDIX 6: PROTECT7ON FORESTS: FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES AND PERMISSIBLE FELLING
SYSTEMS INROMANIA .                                                      190
APPENDIX 7: LIST OF UNDISTURBED FORESTS IN ROMANIA .                            193
APPENDIX 8: SUGGESTED SCREENING FOR WOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRIES .                196
APPENDIX 9: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR DIAGNOSTIC STUDY OF CORRUPTION IN THE
FORESTRY SECTOR .                                                        197
APPENDIX 10: RESULTS FROM PRELIMINARY SCREENING OF ROADS REHABILITATION SUB-
PROJECTS FOR THEIR ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS .                    204
APPENDIX 11: BIBLIOGRAPHY .                                                     210
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1: Status of restitution offorest land under Law 1/2000 (as of May 2002) .        12
Table 2: Institutional responsibilities of key Romanian institutions relevant to forestry and the environment ... 20
Table 3: Indicative Costs and Bankfinancing by FDP component/subcomponent .33
Table 4: Net Present Value and Internal Rate of Return of the FDP .48
Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis Changing variables to reduce ihe NPV to zero .49
Table 6: Overview of Romanian Forests (May 2002).                                       53
Table 7: Employment in Forestry and Wood Processing in Romania .64
Table 8: Summary of Potential Impacts With and Without the FDP (excluding mitigation steps) .68
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 9: Schedul  le      f  or implementation of FDP Forest Road Sub-Component ...................................................... 85
Table 10: Screening Roads Construction and Rehabilitation Sub-projectsfor their potential environmental and
social impacts ...................................................................................  87
Table 11. Results from testing the screening method planned for FDPforest road rehabilitation sub-projects.
keY  issues  in   road  f asibilitY  studies ........................... ......................................................... 90
Table 12 . Resultsfrom initial environmental and social screening of proposed roads rehabilitation sub-projects
........................................................................................................................................................................... 90
Table 13: Impacts. Alitigation and Alanagement Actions Jbr FDP Components ................................................ . 97
Table 14: Area of Forest Cover of Forest Restituted in the 1991 Program, by Year .113
Table 15: Percentagc distribuition of Canopy Closure in Restituted Forest in 1992 and 1999 .114
Table 16: Derived Standing Vlolume of Restituted Forests in 1992 (in3 x v I  .)              116
Table 17: Derived Standing V olume of Restituted Forests in 1999 (ri3 x 1 ).117
Table 18: Area of Forest Claimed bY Type of Ownership under Law 1 /2000 .119
Table 19: Volume ofAnnual Loss in Production - Without Project, Likely Restitution Scenario.  121
Table 20: Value ofAnnuial Loss in Production - Without Project, Likely Restitution Scenario .  122
Tablc 21: Volume of Annual Loss in Production - Without Project, Prudent Restitution Scenario .  122
Table 22: Value ofAnnual Loss in Production - Without Project, Likely Restitution Scenario .  122
Table 23: Volume of Annual Loss in Production - With Project, Likelv Restitution Scenario.   123
Table 24: Value oj Annual Loss in Production - With Project, Likely Restitution Scenario.    123
Table 25: Volume of Annual Loss in Production - With Project, Prudent Restitution Scenario.  123
Table 26: Value of Annual Loss in Production - With Project, Prudent Restitution Scenario.   124
Table 27: Gross Economic Benefit of the Project - Likely' Restitution Scenario.              124
Table 28: Gross Economic Benefit of the Project - Prudent Restitution Scenario.              124
Table 29: Projected Cash Floss For FDP less Roads and Business Development Components.       125
Table 30: Net Present Value at a Cost of Capital of 12 percent and the Economic Internal Rate of Return over
17 year period (the loan period).                                                            125
Table 31: Extraction Costs Without the Road, Va/ea Ruii.                                     127
Tabic 32: Estimated Extraction and Haulage Costs by Year Without the Road, Valea Ruzii (USS) .128
Table 33: Extraction Costs With the Road, Valea RuZii.                                       128
Table 34: Investment and average completion of the road by year, Valea Ruzii.                 129
Table 35: Estimated Extraction and Haulage Costs by' Year With the Road, Valea Ruzii (USS ).  129
Table 36: Cash Flowforfirst Eleven Years. Valea Ruzii .130
Table 37: Recommended Institutional Actions to Improve the Effectiveness of the FDP in environmental terms
.........................................................................../........................I....................................................................... 137
Table 38: Environmental Management Planfor the Romania Forest Development Project .139
Table 39: Key Public Consultations and Their Results .153
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1: Summary' of the National Forestry Policy and Strategyfor Romania .11
Figure 2: The structure of the Department of Forests within MAFF (April 2002) .21
Figure 3: Distribution of Forests in Romana .55
Figure 4: Annual Timber Harvesting in Romania, 1994-1999 ('000 m3) .59
Figure 5: Graph showing predicted area restituted by' year and type of ownership.             120
Figure 6: Comparison of the Restitution Scenarios. Total Area Restituted by Year.             121
Figure 7: Romania Biosphere Reserves, National, and Natural Parks .175
Figure 8: Number/Area of Scientific Reserves, Natural Reserves, and Natural Monuments, by County .   76
Figure 9: Approximate Orientation of Detailed Maps Showing Location of Roads Identified in Preliminary
Screeningfor Rehabilitation or Construction .180
Figure 10: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Valcea (Map 1) .181
Figure I1: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Suceava (Map 2) .182
Figure 12: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Prahova (Map 3)  .183
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figure 13: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Neanmt (Map 4) ........................................... 184
Figure 14: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Mehedinti (Alap 5) ..............   ....................... 185
Figure 15: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Maramures (Map 6) ..................................1186
Figure 16: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Bucarest (Map 7) ...............   ........................ /87
Figure 17: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Hunedora (Map 8) ..............     ....................... 188
Figure 18. Location of proposed rehabilitation and constructioni. Cluj (Map 9) ...................... ........................ 189
LIST OF TEXT BOXES
Box. 1. Water Law No.     07/1996, Article 31               ................................................................ 16
Box 2: Current approv al processforforest roads ................................................................   26
Box 3: Impacts of tie 1991 restitution offorest lands ................................................................  112
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



VOLUME II: ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Initial Report on Envirotminenttal Aspects of Forest Roads Componetnt, report
prepared by Fortech, Dames & Moore (UK) and Project Management (Ireland)
for the Romania Forest Development Project, March 2001
Annex 2:  Initial Economic Analysis of the Forestry Development Project, report prepared
by Fortech, Dames & Moore (UK) and Project Management (Ireland) for the
Romania Forest Development Project, March 2001
Annex 3:  Environmental Assessment for the Rehabilitation of the Forest Road Valea
Mare - Crizbav (Bra,sov Coutnty) and Environmental Assessment for the
Rehabilitationi of thte Forest Road Paltinoasa (Prahova County), report
prepared by Intergroup Engineering for the Romania Forest Development
Project, May 2001.
Annex 4:  Correspondence and Other Documentation regarding the Forest Development
Project from civil society groups following Project Appraisal
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT                     MIlNiny OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Romania Forest Development Project:
Environmental Assessment Update
SUMMARY
INTRODUCriON
This Environmental Assessment Update was prepared to provide additional information about the
proposed Romania Forest Development Project which was not available at the time when work on the
original Environmental Assessment was completed and made available in October 2001.
The original Environmental Assessment (EA) was prepared by ERM and Intergroup Engineering
Romania. This Update has been prepared by staff commissioned by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food
and Forests in close cooperation with ERM and Intergroup on the basis of additional inputs prepared
for the Project Appraisal Mission and which had not been available at the time the EA was finalized.1
The Update includes all the information included in the original Environmental Assessment. It does
not substantively change any of the findings from the original Enviromnental Assessment, but seeks
to address concerns with respect to incomplete information in the original EA which were raised
during subsequent consultations with Romanian NGOs. It also seeks to clarify some of the issues
which were not clear in the original Environmental Assessment and draws on additional material
prepared for the project.
There have been numerous consultations and public discussions about the original Environmental
Assessment. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF) sought comments on
the process by soliciting these through announcements in the press. Extensive information about the
project has also been made available on the project's website (www.forestier.ro), including (and
unusually) the full version of the draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD), since January 2002.
Additional concerns were raised about the project and the Environmental Assessment which had not
been voiced during the initial and extensive period of consultation leading to project preparation and
to preparation of the Environmental Assessment. Following various exchanges with a group of
interested environmental NGOs, it was agreed that there was scope for updating the information
included in the original Environmental Assessment. Suggestions for improvements were developed
during an NGO consultation in Brasov in March 2002, which recommended that an update should,
* include information which was not fully reported upon, particularly with respect to fuller
information about the project, the location of the initial list of roads targeted for rehabilitation
or construction, changes to the legal framework which may impact project implementation,
information about the consultation process which was used both to inform preparation of the
project and to improve the Environmental Assessment, maps (for those roads which have
prelirminarily been identified for rehabilitation or construction) and other information about
initiatives with respect to public activities to conserve biodiversity (including the GEF-
financed Biodiversity Conservation Management Project);
(1)   According to the World Bank's Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental Assessment, a project's final
Environmental Assessment is to be released prior to Appraisal, and any substantive issues raised as a
result of the Environmental Assessment are supposed to be addressed during Appraisal. Further
revisions to the EA which accomnnodate how the Appraised project addressed the concems raised in the
EA are not usually envisaged. In this respect, this EA Update is an exception.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         ;                MINITRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



*   Incorporate the text and recommendations which are outlined in Annex IIA of the original
Environmental Assessment ['Inzitial Report onl Enviroyinmental Aspects of Forest Roads Comtpoent'
prepared by Fortech, Dames and Moore, and Project Management (Ireland)] into the
Environmental Assessment as an integral part of it, to develop binding recommendations
during roads construction and rehabilitation;
*   Consider more fully the likely direct and indirect impacts of project investments on
harvesting, based on information which is available, and develop and describe actions to
mitigate these impacts where they are not consistent with sustainable forest management
practices;
*  To the extent possible, examine the risks to project performance associated with illegal
harvesting and problems of governance, and propose steps to reduce these risks;
*   add more information about the project altematives considered and the reasons for their
rejection (particularlv in the context of the National Forest Policy and Strategy).
*   Describe in detail the steps taken to publicly disclose information about the project, as well as
the steps taken to disclose and consult with key stakeholders during preparation of the
original Environmental Assessment.
This Update was prepared to provide this information.
SECrORAL BACKGROUND
Romania's forests cover 27 percent of the country and include some of the last and largest tracts of
natural and virgin old growth forests still remaining in Europe. They constitute an extremely
valuable natural resource in terms of their capacity for sustainable production of forest products,
provision of environmental services, and the conservation of biodiversity. While more than half of
Romania's forests are managed for protection functions (rather than for timber production), in the
year 2000 the export value of forest products (including processed timber) was estimated to be
around US $1 billion - equivalent to 10 percent of all exports. In contrast, the value of environmental
services associated with forests is considerably larger, and is estimated at around US$3.1 billion.
Over the last fiftv years, most of Romania's forests have been owned by the State and managed by the
State-owned National Forest Administration (NFA), which has a long and distinguished history of
ecologically sound management of natural forests and the wildlife populations they support. In
conjunction with the more general process of democratization, there has been mounting political
pressure to commercialize the NFA and to privatize a number of its non-core activities, coupled with
pressures to return more than one-third of all forest lands to their pre-1948 owners through the on-
going process of restitution. Extensive forest areas have been scheduled for restitution. Most of this
land is production forest, which currently generates most of the revenues needed by NFA to
undertake public functions associated with management of protection forest, including forest
National and Natural Parks.
While the restitution of forest lands will ultimately lead to greater democratization, empowerment,
and improved distribution of benefits from forest management to their owners and to associated rural
communities, there are risks associated with the restitution process. Previous experience in Romania
(1991/92) and elsewhere has shown that if the restitution of forest lands takes place without adequate
legal and institutional mechanisms, the almost immediate loss of forest cover is likely to result,
leading to irreversible environmental degradation and significant economic losses for the country. In
anticipation of the much larger-scale restitution of forest lands which is now already underway, the
role of the State will need to change rapidly to reduce the potentially devastating impacts of
restitution on forests, the environment, and on the sector's long-term productive capacity. At the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT          ii                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



same time, the ability of new forest owners to undertake sustainable forest management will be
constrained by technical skills, access to markets, and investment capital.
The NFA currently manages more than 85 percent of Romania's forests. This area will be reduced
dramatically after restitution. Since most of the forests which will be returned to former owners is
production forest, restitution will significantly increase the proportion of non-revenue generating
activities undertaken bv the NFA (from the management of protection forests and National and
Natural Parks, which are areas rich in forest biodiversity) as a share of its total expenditure.
In summary, there are a number of key sectoral issues which include,
* the need to implement the recently prepared National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS) to
provide overall direction for reform of the sector and to improve the climate for increased
investment in management, production, and processing;
*   the challenge of improving Government's supervisory, regulatory, and monitoring capacity to
maintain forests under sustainable management after restitution;
* the need to finance and maintain NFA's role in managing and safeguarding remaining State-
owned production and protection forests following restitution in the face of the loss of a large
proportion of the production forests from which it currently derives much of its revenues;
* the need to establish a timber pricing policy that is transparent and fair to forest owners and
wood buyers;
*   the low density of the forest road network in production forests causes localized negative
environmental impacts from harvesting, and high harvesting and transport costs; and
* the efficiency of private wood processing industries could be improved and is sometimes
constrained by the use of outdated technology as well as by access to capital to finance needed
improvements, and to high-value markets which could improve their market position.
THE PROJECr
The Government of Romania (GOR) requested the assistance of the World Bank to prepare and to
finance a Forest Development Project (FDP) to assist it in implementing the most important medium-
term needs articulated in the strategic objectives of the NFPS. The overall aim of the FDP is to
maintain and to improve environmentally sustainable management of state and private forests and to increase
thteir contribution to the national and nrral economies.
In line with this objective, the FDP is intended to assist MAFF to: (a) establish systems to ensure
sustainable management of private forest lands, by building the capacity of the Department of Forests
and its Forest Inspectorate, supporting the development of privaie forest owners associations, and
establishing a forest management information and monitoring system; (b) mitigate the consequences
of restitution on the management of State forest lands by assisting the NFA to maintain, develop and
finance its role in managing protection forests, and to reduce potential negative environmental
impacts and to improve the efficiency of managing State production forests through rehabilitation
and development of the forest road network, piloting an effort to introduce improved environmental
standards in roads design and rehabilitation; (c) support increased productivity and competitiveness
of forest industries, through establishing and operating a Forest Sector Business Information Center
(ForsBIC); and to (d) build public support for sustainable forest management by implementing a
public awareness program targeting key stakeholders with emphasis on new forest land owners and
their associated communities.
Indicative project costs are expected to total US$ 43 million. IBRD financing will total $US 33 million
over the 6-year life of the project.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                            MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FooD AND FORESTS



FINDINGS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT UPDATE
One of the sources of confusion which arose frorrm the original Environmental Assessment was
whether the EA was intended to address project specific impacts or overall, sectoral and cumulative
impacts of the proposed FDP. In seeking to clarify this point, a review of the project's impacts in this
Update characterized firstly, expected project-specific impacts, and then expanded upon the impacts
which are likely at the sectoral level - to the extent that these could be evaluated.
Even without the incorporation of specific mitigation steps, environmental impacts of most project
components in the original Environmental Assessment were expected to be positive - as the project
was very much conceived of as an effort to mitigate some of the envisaged negative environmental
impacts of restitution. This Update confirms the original Environmental Assessment's findings and
its recommendations. Specifically, it is unlikely that there would be any positive environmental
impacts of the 'without project' scenario, and likely considerable negative environmental impacts,
very much reflecting the view of the EA team that project activities would be quite important for
mitigating some of the negative environmental impacts of the planned restitution program. A review
of likely critical environmental impacts and mitigating steps which have been incorporated into the
project follows.
REVIEW OF CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION STEPS, BY COMPONENT.
Component 1: Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest Lands
The first component of the project proposes to finance the strengthening of the Department of Forests
within the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, with particular emphasis on strengthening the
capacity of the Forest Inspectorates; to finance measures to develop the Association of Private Forest
Owners and to establish community-based Associations of Local Forest Owners, and to establish a
national Forest Management Information and Monitoring Svstem.
No negative environmental impacts of this component are envisaged, and significant positive
environmental impacts are anticipated.
A larger question which has been raised is whether or not the investments proposed go far enough.
Will, for example, the elements of capacity building incorporated into the project provide sufficient
leverage for the Forest Inspectorates adequately to perform their tasks? Do they have enough
independence to do so? Is the overall policy and legal framework adequate for supporting the
institutional reforms proposed by the project? Is there the political will to tackle issues of governance
which could undermine the longer term process of reform? These are difficult questions, reflect
largely sectoral concerns, and extend far beyond the normal scope of an EA.
Romania, like many other countries, faces budget constraints and a need to limit the size of its civil
service. In the face of these circumstances, the project is supporting the establishment, at some
financial cost, of the newly constituted Forest Inspectorate. Resources to fund capacity building and
institutional development of the Forest Inspectorates would not be forthcoming in the absence of the
FDP. Once performance of the Inspectorates can be properly evaluated, as a result of this support, the
potential for subsequent commitments can be assessed, and this should provide the framework for
future action.
The body of forest legislation in Romania is also evolving, in response to many of the changes which
have accompanied the political and economic transition over the last 10 years. Even with the best
legal and institutional framework for forest management in Romania, experience in many countries
indicates that without the support of local communities and relevant stakeholders, enforcement is not
effective. The project seeks, through a combination of measures, to build ownership for sustainable
forest management, to bring about effective enforcement.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NJANAGEMENT       iV                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Other questions have been raised about the likely impact of corruption on the sector as a whole, as
well as on project implementation in particular. There is relatively little information known about the
extent of corruption in the forest sector. The failure, however, to capture revenues as a result of
corruption and illegal harvesting increases the overall cost of management, and supports rates of
forest harvesting which are not consistent with generally accepted norms of sustainable forest
management. There is scope for developing a far better understanding of the nature and dimension of
problems of forest governance in Romania.
Mitigation measures are designed to address overall sectoral concerns (which would be in place even
without the project), rather than specific impacts which are likely as a result of the project, which, as
we have indicated, are expected to be nil in light of the wider sectoral framework. Within this
framework, the project was designed to assist in addressing the issues of legislation, enforcement, and
governance. The proposed project is partly designed to build the capacity of MAFF to enforce the
forest code and to provide extension and advisory services, with particular emphasis on newly
restituted forest lands where the risks of illegal and unsustainable practices are greatest. The project
will also assist new forest owners, at the regional and community levels, to form and establish forest
owners associations in order to consolidate private forest holdings into economically viable
management units that can be managed in accordance with the existing forest management planning
system.
Government support for the establishment of independent certification of forest products will
provide additional incentives to ensure that forest management will be environmentally, socially and
economically sustainable. Certification also represents European best practice, and this operation is
one of the first in Romania to support this. Government has targeted over a million ha for eventual
certification. A commitment to compliance with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) standards is an
indication of Government's interest in seeing that production forests are sustainably and
transparently managed. FSC standards also include moves to account for the chain-of-custody, which
should also begin to address some of the problems of the marketing of illegally harvested timber.
Steps are also underway to find ways of certifying production from private forest owners, through
the forest owners association network. The project will provide support for these types of initiatives
to enable private forest owners to maximize returns to forest management.
In addition to these measures, the proposed FDP tackles the problem of governance in the sector in a
number of important respects. Firstly, the strengthening of the Forest Inspectorates to improve their
capacity to enforce forest legislation is a key objective of this component of the project. Indeed, the
Forest Inspectorate has primary responsibility for control, monitoring, and forest law enforcement in
both state and private forests. Secondly, the project seeks vastly to increase the availability of
information about forest harvesting and management by establishing a national forest management
information and monitoring system for the Department of Forests, greatly increasing its capacity for
planning and monitoring. Finally, the public awareness component is very much design to improve
local governance by making owners more aware of their rights and responsibilities and the
importance of sustainable forest management.
These actions will seek to engage wider civil society groups in monitoring performance of the Forest
Inspectorates and of the Department of Forests in seeking to enforce the legal framework.
An additional mitigation measure which is expected to be implemented (which had not been
included in the original Environmental Assessment, but which has been agreed by Government), also
posed within the framework of wider sectoral concerns (regardless of project-specific impacts) seeks
to develop better information about the nature and extent of corruption in the forestry sector. A
diagnostic study, which follows on the results of the overall national diagnostic of corruption, will be
carried out once independent financing and implementing mechanisms are mobilized. The Diagnostic
will be carried out by an independent institution with financing which is not related to the FDP. The
Diagnostic Study will describe the nature of corruption in the sector and will propose a number of
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURcES NIANAGEMENT        v                 NINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



initiatives to reduce, control, or otherwise to mitigate the impacts of corruption on sectoral
performance. Once the Diagnostic Study has been completed, around half of the project's unallocated
physical and price contingencies will be allocated specifically to implement priority recommendations
of the Diagnostic (provided these recommendations have not alreadv been accommodated by the
project).
An important institutional mechanism for ensuring the project is performing to an adequate standard
with respect to this component in particular is the Project Oversight Committee. The Project
Oversight Committee will consist of representatives from the Department of Forests, MAFF, the
Ministrv of Finance, NFA, and the NGO community, and will be advised by various consultative
groups which are to be established. The Committee will be responsible for providing project
oversight advice and assistance in resolving issues associated with project implementation.
Representation of the NGO community on the Oversight Committee has been welcomed by
Government - an option not discussed in the original EA - but the selection of a representative
remains the responsibility of the NGO community, which has, to-date, been unable to identify a
suitable representative.
Component 2. Mitigate the Consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest Land
The second project component will provide support for reform and strategic development of the
National Forest Administration, and for rehabilitation and construction of the forest roads network
(including a key stretch of forest railway).
The reform process is geared toward assisting NFA to change in response to the wider changes which
are already underwav, particularly with respect to the restitution of forest lands. They' are geared
toward improving NFA's efficiency and financial viability on remaining state forest lands which will
be under its control.  The project will provide resources to assist NFA in developing and
implementing a strategic plan to strengthen its role in managing remaining State forests. The strategic
plan will focus on reforming and strengthening the NFA's institutional capacity to improve its
operational and commercial efficiency, optimizing revenue generation from production forest, while
safeguarding the public interest and ecological services provided by protection and production forest.
The reserve pricing system will be reviewed and revised to establish an objective and auditable
process for determining reserve pricing for timber auctions.
The project will also assist NFA in defining its information management svstem requirements to
support its strategic development and will provide an interactive link with the national forest
management information and monitoring system that the project will establish within the
Department of Forests.
Finally, the project is expected to provide logistical support in terms of vehicles and equipment
required to manage the forest protected area network, which is being developed with the assistance of
the ongoing Biodiversitv Conservation Management Project.
In conjunction with the overall NFA reform process, the project will also finance, on a pilot scale,
rehabilitation and expansion of the forest road network (including the rehabilitation of the only forest
railwav operating in Romania), by implementing a series of forest roads sub-projects, with the
objective of reducing the negative environrnental impacts of harvesting, against forest management
plan standards, and to improve the economic viability of wood harvesting from State production
forests.
The two project subcomponents are seen to be integrated actions, i.e. institutional reform by itself is
unlikely to be financially viable in the absence of investment in improving the economic efficiency of
timber harvesting in NFA's production forests. Investments in roads rehabilitation and construction
makes little sense if NFA fails to undergo needed reforms in its strategic approach and outlook, in its
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         Vi               MINSTRY OF AGRIcULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



overall approach to financial management, and in its way of pricing timber through the auction
system.
Strategic planning and reforn of tize NFA
No negative environmental impacts of this sub-component are envisaged, and some modest positive
environmental impacts are anticipated.
The nature of the institutional reforms proposed is largely 'environment neutral,' that is, the objective
of reform is largelv to improve overall public sector management. A better environmental regulatory
framework is, however, anticipated as a result of the project, and this should yield some gains in
overall environmental management.
Significantly, environmental impacts of this component are expected to be far more negative if the
roads component is not included in the project. In other words, the institutional reforms which are
envisaged are unlikely to be sustained if a framework for economically efficient and environmentally
sensible roads management is not developed, tested and introduced.
Forest roads rehabilitation and expansion
In terms of investment by the World Bank, forest roads rehabilitation and expansion is the major
element of this component of the FDP, as well as the largest single subcomponent of the FDP overall.
Bank 6-year financing for this component is expected to total $18.9 million, or 44 percent of total
project costs, averaging just over $3 million per year. The balance of the resources required for roads
rehabilitation and construction are to be financed by Government.
Forest roads rehabilitation and expansion is also the element of the FDP with the highest potential for
direct negative environmental impacts (e.g., construction, maintenance and usage.
The roads component, as it has been conceived, is comprised of a series of sub-projects, which are to
be implemented in 5 annual tranches. Each tranche will be geographically clustered. A partial listing
of sub-projects has tentatively been identified, based on a listing provided by Government of the
roads in need of investment, which were primarily roads badly damaged by recent floods.
Identification of each of the 5 tranches, however, will only be confirmed during the course of project
implementation. The first tranche, for example, will be selected from this listing, but will only be
confirmed mid-way through the first year of project implementation. Actual civil works on any roads
sub-project will not be initiated until the second year of project implementation (and this, only after
various screening and assessment processes have been completed, as described below). The 5
tranches will be undertaken in the second through sixth project years.
The listing of roads sub-projects is expected to change during the course of project implementation
(indeed, it has already changed considerably from the original listing of roads which were thought to
be in need of investment). Sub-projects will be added to the list, and removed from it. This is the
nature of an investment operation which seeks to finance individual sub-projects, and then to subject
them to screening and evaluation for their likely economic benefits and environmental impacts.
The partial listing of road rehabilitation and construction sub-projects which have been identified,
screened, and rescreened for their potential environmental impacts, and their locations, is indicated in
the EA Update. Rescreening yielded an initial list, from which several of the 5 tranches of sub-projects
will be identified, comprised of a total of 430 km of forest infrastructure (roads and railways) which
are to be rehabilitated (in 53 sub-projects) and 56 km of new roads which are to be constructed (in 18
sub-projects). Funds are provided in the project to finance an additional 24 km of roads construction
sub-projects (probably around 8 sub-projects), which have yet to be identified, and 88 km of roads
rehabilitation sub-projects (around 11 sub-projects) which have yet to be identified. This initial list of
roads will subsequently change as new information becomes available during project implementation
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT        vii               MINtSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



as a result of more intensive reviev. and screening, but on balance, it is anticipated that the project
will finance around 80 km of new roads construction (in around 26 sub-projects) and 516 km of roads
and railwav infrastructure rehabilitation (in around 64 sub-projects).
Roads rehabilitation sub-projects are expected to vary in length from around 1 to 20 km, but average
around 8 km each. New road construction sub-projects, which entirely comprise the extension of
existing roads (i.e. spur extensions) are expected to vary in length from around 0.5 to 6.5 km, but will
average around 3 km each.
As a pilot activitv, the roads identified for construction or rehabilitation represent a very small
fraction of the total length of forest roads or associated harvesting and extraction infrastructure in
Romania. Harvesting and extraction infrastructure, at the end of the year 2000, comprised a total of
41,546 km of roads and 65 km of railway. Roads targeted for new construction by the project would
increase the total road length bv less than 2 tenths of one percent. Infrastructure planned for
rehabilitation constitutes 1.2 percent of the total. By any standard, the fact that the project is investing
in such a small percentage of the overall total (and indeed, in the face of the enormous needs for
construction and rehabilitation) demonstrates that it constitutes a pilot operation. Because of this,
aggregate impacts of the roads project are expected to be relatively minor.
Roads sub-projects which have been initially identified - and indeed all roads investments to be
financed by the project - all fall within production forests. All 'Forest Fund' production forests are
managed under Forest Management Plans. All of these plans are prepared on a compartment basis bv
ICAS on behalf of the owner (i.e. the NFA), approved by the Directorate of Forests (now in MAFF),
and revised even' 10 years. Roads rehabilitation and extension sub-projects are framed in the context
of Forest Management Plans.
Generally speaking, the potential direct environmental impacts related to the construction of forest
roads include:
* Habitat loss/fragmentation (associated with the footprint of the road);
* Alteration of drainage/natural hydrologic regime;
* Stream erosion;
* Soil erosion and downstream sedimentation;
* Slope instabilitv and landslides; and
* Resultant secondary impacts (e.g., increased access to formerlv remote areas, increased resource
extraction and resultant impacts to biodiversity and physical environment, economic impacts
such as emplovment - both temporary (road construction impacts) and permanent (ongoing
maintenance and resource extraction impacts)).
Potential indirect impacts could include increased illegal harvesting, but only if enforcement and
regulatory mechanisms fail.
The role of forest management planning is important to consider in the process of forest roads
construction and rehabilitation. All roads (which are located in state land in Forest Fund production
forests), are planned, designed and permitted in the context of a management system based on
extensive experience with silvicultural practices implemented through 10-year forest management
plans, and which incorporate watershed and biodiversity protection functions and other
environmental aspects. Silvicultural and management programs integrate traditional forest harvest
practices of local communities including wood for fencing and building repair, fire wood), and non-
timber forest products (NTFPs, e.g., medicinal plants, mushrooms, nuts, honey). Roads rehabilitation,
by itself, is intended to reduce negative environmental impacts from erosion.
In the context of the forest management planning process, then, roads construction and rehabilitation
financed by the project will have virtually no impact on levels of harvesting because the Annual
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMEN1         Viii              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Allowable Cut has alreadv been established as a result of the forest management pla'nning process
and provides the basis for auctioning timber resources in individual blocks. The Annual Allowable
Cut is formally approved by the Cabinet. The primary impact of the roads rehabilitation component
will be an economic one, to reduce the costs of harvesting and extraction, rather than to increase the
rate of harvesting, ensuring NFA will receive higher value for standing timber in auction markets. In
the context of well-established sustainable forest management plans, the environmental impact of the
roads component are expected to be beneficial: better designed roads will reduce erosion, and a more
rational network will limit damage to vegetation caused by long skidding distances. The effectiveness
of the management and enforcement regime will be important for limiting unintended impacts, and
the project makes considered investments in strengthening these capacities.
Roads sub-projects are not expected to have anv impact on protected areas and will neither pass
through any protected area nor will they increase access to protected areas.
To minimize other potential environmental impacts of the road sub-component, a number of
mitigation measures will be undertaken, consistent with the approach the project has taken toward
investment in rehabilitation and construction sub-projects.
In the first project year, before any investments are made in any roads rehabilitation or new
construction, the preparation of a Forest Roads Best Practice Manual will be commissioned. The Best
Practice Manual will describe, in detail, technical specifications for the rehabilitation and construction
of forest roads to acceptable international standards to minimize negative environmental impacts.
Drafts of the Best Practice Manual will be made widely available for public consultation and
information. The Best Practice Manual will also include further guidance with respect to
environmental and social screening and assessment, and will be completed in the first project year.
During the first project year, the first tranche of roads sub-projects (which will entirely comprise
roads rehabilitation) will be identified. A cumulative impacts screen will be carried out of these sub-
projects, and of each subsequent tranche of sub-projects, to identify instances when two or more road
projects occur in a single river basin or catchment of 1000 ha or smaller, or where roads interfere with
habitats of concern. Options for management would include phasing the implementation of the road
projects to avoid simultaneous construction impacts or, where this is difficult or undesirable for
economic or other reasons, requiring EAs for these road projects regardless of the individual scores
resulting from the screening process. Any proposed road construction sub-project or road
rehabilitation sub-project which provides increased access to protected areas will automatically be
dropped from the list of proposed sub-projects.
Road design will subsequently be carried out to the standards and specifications described in the Best
Practice Manual. Once sub-project design is complete according to these standards, the first tranche of
sub-projects will be rescreened for their potential environmental and social impacts, following the
procedures and screening approach outlined in this report and incorporating any additional
measures outlined in the Best Practice Manual. The screening process will involve an intensive
review of road sub-project design. Screening will be carried out by the Roads Engineer with the PCT
working closely with qualified personnel with the Forest Inspectorates. Road sub-projects will be
evaluated for their potential negative environmental and social impact. Where these are significant,
sub-project specific Environmental Assessments will be prepared. Other roads sub-projects would
not require an EA. It is anticipated that, as a result of the screening process, all new roads will be
subject to an EA. An identical process will be followed for all subsequent tranches of sub-projects.
The preparation of a large number of EAs during project implementation is potentially a substantial
burden, both in terms of cost and time, particularly for roads rehabilitation. In some respects, it is an
unreasonably high standard, exceeding the standards described in Romania's own environmental
legislation, as well as standards established in EC Directive 85/337/EEC on Environmental Impact
Assessment as amended by 97/11/EEC, which exempts the forestry sector from mandatory EA
requirements, and which allows member states to establish their own thresholds with respect to when
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT        ix                MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



EAs would be required for the construction of new roads (making no mention whatsoever of
requiring EAs for roads rehabilitation). Romanian legislation currently establishes no thresholds for
roads construction or rehabilitation whatsoever.
Guidance about the appropriate scale and coverage of EAs is provided by the World Bank's
Operational Policy 4.01 E7nvironnienatl Assessment which states that,
'EA is a process whose breadtht, deptlh, an?d type of antalysis depend oni thze inatutre, scale, ald potential
en7ironmeatal impact of the proposed project.' (emphasis added)
Secondly, OP 4.01 provides explicitly for the preparation of sub-project EAs (when these are
confirmed to be necessary as result of screening), during project implementation and requires the
implementing institution 'to carry out appropriate EA according to country requirements and the
requirements of this policy.'
In light of this, EAs for forest road sub-projects should be focused on very clearly meeting the intent
of OP 4.01 (which, compared with national requirements is the higher standard) to provide sub-
project EAs of breadth, depth, and type which reflects the nature, scale, and potential environmental
impact of the proposed sub-project This intent can be met by focusing criticallv on the immediate
scope of individual roads sub-projects, the main purpose being objectively to review the proposed
road project design in light of specific field conditions and the potential and significant negative
environmental and social impacts which may result.
Once sub-projects have been rescreened for their potential environmental and social impacts, sub-
project specific EAs, where these are judged to be necessary, will be largely based on detailed field
reconnaissance visits to the site or corridor of the road. Specific problem areas will be identified in the
field and studied. The main output of the EA will be recommendations to avoid, minimize and
mitigate potential impacts, during both construction and operation. A suggested outline for sub-
project specific EAs follows:
(a)    Summary, which discusses significant findings and reconmmended actions.
(b)    Policy, legal, and  administrative framework. Discusses the policy, legal, and
administrative framework within which the EA is carried out. Explains the
environmental requirements of any cofinanciers. Identifies relevant international
environmental agreements to which the country is a party. It is unlikely that this section
will change significantly from sub-project to sub-project.
(c)    Sub-project description which describes the proposed project and its geographic,
ecological, social, and temporal context. Indicates the need for any resettlement or
relocation. Includes a map showing the project site and the project's area of influence.
(d)    Baseline data. Assesses the dimensions of the sub-project area and describes relevant
physical, biological, and socioeconomic conditions. Particularly referring to the current
Forest Management Plan, takes into account current and proposed forest management
activities.
(e)    Environmental and social impacts. Predicts and assesses the project's likely positive and
negative impacts, in quantitative terms to the extent possible. Identifies mitigation
measures and any residual negative impacts that cannot be mitigated.
(f)    Analysis of alternatives. Systematically compares feasible alternatives, taking account of
guidance in the Best Practice Manual, in terms of their potential environmental impacts;
the feasibilitv of mitigating these impacts; their capital and recurrent costs; suitability
under local conditions; and their institutional, training, and monitoring requirements.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT          x                  MINISTRY OF ACRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORmS



(g)    Environmental management plan (EMP). Covers mitigation measures and monitoring
and cross-references these to the Best Practice Manual.
Once the draft EA is completed, it will be made locallv available for consultation and review for a
period of 60 days, and notice of its availability will be published in a nationallv circulated magazine.
Written comments on the EA will be solicited in this review process, and, when needed, public
consultations will be carried out. Written comments will be considered in revising road sub-projects
designs.
The EA will be carried out by a qualified independent local consultant who will adhere to the
disclosure practices outlined in this report. The EA will identify mitigating steps not already
accounted for in roads design, and will consider other options such as re-siting, alternative routings,
and dropping the sub-project altogether if adequate mitigating measures cannot be undertaken. The
quality of the EA, and the standards adopted, will be reviewed by the staff with the Forests
Inspectorate and with the Project Coordination Team.
Compliance with the construction and rehabilitation methods outlined in the Best Practice Manual
will be a contractual obligation of all roads sub-contractors financed by the project both during the
design and construction phases. Contractual compliance with the Best Practice Manual and with the
recommendations and findings of any of the Environmental Assessments which are prepared for
individual roads sub-projects will be monitored by the Forest Road Specialist in the PCT and by a
counterpart(s) to be identified within the Forest Inspectorate.
Five tranches of roads construction and rehabilitation sub-projects are envisaged over the life of the
project. Roads proposed for inclusion in each tranche will be listed by public notice annually in every
project year.
There are serious capacity constraints for carrying out environmental and social impacts screening
and assessment. The project will employ a Forest Roads Specialist as part of the Project Coordination
Team to address these constraints. The Roads Specialist will have a good understanding of forest
roads, forest road best practice, design, and operation, with experience and background in
environmental assessment and mitigation. The Road Specialist will have some responsibility for
commissioning and managing road sub-project EAs, as well as the review   and monitoring
implementation of EA recommendations. The Road Specialist will also be involved in tendering for
and supervision of road construction and rehabilitation projects to ensure that design and
construction management specifications of the Best Practice Manual are requirements of the
construction contract; that these standards and requirements are clear to the winning bidder; and that
standards are understood by the agencies charged with supervising construction and are enforced.
The Forest Inspectorate is the best positioned govermnent agency to carry out the environmental
screening and review function for forest roads when FDP is completed, but to do so, it is necessarv
that capacity is developed. The Forest Inspectorate will identify a staff member, with qualifications
which are similar qualifications to the Road Specialist's, and assign this individual on a full or part
time basis to work closely with the Road Specialist. This individual's responsibilities will parallel
those identified for the Road Specialist and will include commissioning and managing the EAs which
are carried out as well as the review and implementation of the EA recommendations and
construction supervision. The intent of this liaison and shared responsibilities during the six-year
implementation period of the FDP is that the necessary capacity would be developed and that these
responsibilities be transferred to the Forest Inspectorate.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         Xi                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Component 3. Suipport Increased Productivity and Coinpetitiveness of Forest Industries
The Increased Productivity and Competitiveness component of the FDP aims to promote the
establishment of the Forest Business Information Center (ForsBIC), an independent business
development and advisory service, which will establish linkages and coordination within the forest
industry chain (i.e., silviculture, harvesting, transport, primary and secondary processing), and
provide assistance to wood and related forest industries, through review and dissemination of
information on new technologies, markets and prices, export and hygiene requirements, product
promotion and branding, opportunities for joint venture partnerships, certified timber uses and
markets, and the availability of grants, and credit etc. This component focuses very much on the
forest product industry, rather than on timber supply or private forest owners.
If industrial development of the forest sector is encouraged without adequate safeguards for the
environment and people's health and safety, negative environmental and social impacts could be the
outcome. These potentially include:
* increased pollution of air and water and associated health impacts;
* risks of soil and groundwater contamination from inappropriate use and/or storage of toxic
materials;
* increased water abstraction and associated conflicts with other water users;
* increased traffic with associated noise, air pollution and accidents;
* inadequate measures to protect employee's safety at work;
inappropriate waste disposal; and
* land use conflicts between other users.
These impacts will be avoided and/or considerably reduced through measures incorporated into the
execution of this component. Specifically,
*  support provided by ForsBIC will be premised on the use of modem, clean and efficient
technologies and processes;
*  advice and support for the uptake of clean technologies and processes will form the basis of all
component activities;
*  advice and support for the development and implementation of an auditable environmental
management svstem (for example, using ISO 14001 standards as a basis) will form the basis of all
component activities;
*  support will not be provided to businesses which are unable to demonstrate that adequate
safeguards have been put in place to avoid or minimize possible environmental impacts;
* activities proposed for ForsBIC support will be evaluated by the PCT to determine their potential
impact on the environment and where necessary further assessment will be undertaken before
support is approved;
*  within the framework of Romania's regulatory structure for environmental protection, the PCT or
a suitably qualified expert will review any environmental assessments undertaken for a business
and ensure that all mitigation and safeguard measures are undertaken by the appropriate
authority;
*  project monitoring will incorporate measures which consider potential environmental impacts.
Local planning requirements will play an important role in determining the environmental and social
acceptability of business development. Where a project activity has the potential to impact negatively
on the environment, the PCT must ensure that regulatory institutions have the capacity to monitor
environmental impacts and enforce any necessary regulations where non-compliance is observed.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT       xii               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Component 4. Building Public Supportfor Sustainable Forest Management
The project is to provide resources for preparing and implementing a public awareness strategy and
campaign targeting key stakeholders, with particular emphasis on communities living in forested
areas; private forest owners; Forest Inspectorate staff; NFA; Government decision makers, and other
influential groups including Churches and NGOs with the objective of disseminating information
about the importance and value of sustainable forest management. Implementation of the program
will be supported by an inter-ministerial committee on which the Ministries of Industry and
Commerce, Education, Waters and Environmental Protection, Culture, Tourism and Public
Administration will be represented. Campaign strategies will include: educating mass media;
providing public relations guidance to Forest Inspectorate staff; developing educational and
promotional materials for use in schools and the mass media; organizing local education events;
supporting APPR awareness campaigns at the local level; involvement of environmental NGOs in
educational projects; and support for the PCT to develop their public relations capacity and inform
key decision makers of the status of project implementation. The public awareness campaign will
undertake regular assessments of stakeholder perceptions, which will be used to refine the
implementation of the campaign in line with changing requirements.
The component is expected to have fundamentally quite positive environmental impacts, hopefully
reducing the extent to which private and state forests are poorly managed. Performance monitoring
of this component will depend on the stakeholder assessments which are to be carried out during
implementation. There are no negative environmental or social impacts envisaged. No mitigation
measures for this component are envisaged because no negative impacts are likely.
The component is intended to raise awareness about the importance and purpose for sustainable
forest management; methods, tools and techniques for sustainable forestry management; roles and
responsibilities of forest authorities, the public and private business; policies (especially restitution),
Forest Management Plans and timetables for action, advice and assistance available as part of the
FDP, from forest authorities, other programs; opportunities for private business development,
securing investment finance and help and advice available. The program will also ensure a sound
understanding of needs, desires, expectations and capabilities of public about sustainable forestry and
their expectations of the forest as a resource in developing the public awareness program. It will use
tools and techniques appropriate to socio-cultural structures and circumstances and will ensure early
involvement and engagement of forest authorities with the public
Component 5. Project Management and Monitoring
Project management will be undertaken by the Project Coordination Team (PCT), which has already
established by MAFF under the Biodiversity Conservation and Management Project. In addition to
the existing staff, the FDP will finance a roads specialist and a PA consultant to assist with
procurement, management and supervision of the road and public awareness components
throughout the entire period of FDP implementation.
Monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be undertaken by the PCT, and will be subject to
periodic review by the Bank. The PCT will establish project monitoring and evaluation procedures
acceptable to the Bank during the first six months of implementation, and will furnish the Bank with
biannual project progress reports, together with work programs inclusive of detailed monitoring
indicators for the following six month period.
The PCT will have an obviously important role in managing the overall project, and in particular, in
implementing mitigating measures associated with other project components. Investment in the PCI
by itself, however, is not expected to yield any negative environmental impacts. No mitigation
measures are envisaged because no negative impacts are likely.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs NIANAGEMENT      xiii              MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



The PCT will regularly review the effectiveness of the FDP in terms of environmental impacts and
benefits and revise activities accordingly. It will support and promote: environmental training and
capacity building of forest authorities and change management of forest authorities. It will promote
leadership and ownership of FDP by forest authorities to maximize long-term sustainability.
MOVING FORWARD: THE SCOPE FOR PRIVATE SECTOR AND CIVIL SOCIETY INVOLVEMENT
Public awareness about the objectives of the FDP, and support for these goals, will be critical for the
success of the project. Extensive consultations were carried out with forest sector stakeholders and
public and private business interests during conception and preparation of the FDP, particularly
during preparation of the National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS), but also in conjunction with
preparation of the EA. Consultations indicated a degree of public frustration regarding future
restitution of existing Forest Fund lands. The major issue of concern is the possibility that mature
tracts mav be harvested bv NFA under existing management plan schedules prior to restitution,
resulting in a potential loss of revenues to the future owner. This is partially due to a slow progress
on restitution, which has been a major political issue since 1989 and one fraught with complexities
and slowed to some extent by the change in elected governments and related changes in institutions
and policies.
The development of the National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS) involved extensive public
participation which was instrumental in defining the final outcome of the NFPS and the design of the
FDP. The NFPS was prepared over a ten month period commencing March 2000 through a
participatory process that included the involvement of over 300 representatives of different forestry
sector stakeholder groups. Through this process, a substantial effort was made to identify and
incorporate the concerns of stakeholders.
Furthermore, a major component of the FDP involves an extensive public awareness program
designed to promote a better public understanding of the project and its goals within the framework
of the NFPS and to address associated issues such as how the restitution of forest lands will take place
and how sustainable forest management will be implemented. Successful implementation of this
public awareness campaign - and the real impact through the projects other components - will be
crucial for addressing public apprehension.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT       Xiv                MIN;STRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Romania Forest Development Project:
Environmnental Assessment Update
1.    INTRODUCTION
This report, commissioned by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF),
Government of Romania (GOR), presents an Update to the Environmental Assessment
prepared of the proposed World Bank-financed Forest Development Project in Romania.
The update has been prepared by staff commissioned by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food
and Forests, with the close cooperation of Environmental Resources Management (ERM) in
association with Intergroup Engineering, and with valuable contributions from Fortech,
Dames and Moore, and Project Management (Ireland).
1.1   PROJECT BACKGROUND
In 1998-1999, in response to a Government request, the World Bank augmented its review of
the forestry sector (initially prepared in 1992/93), with a Forestry Sector Note, which
outlined the status, values and need for reforms in anticipation of the planned Government
program to return forested areas to their former owners.2 The 1999 Forestry Sector Note
outlined a three-phase strategy for reform of the forestry sector. These included immediate,
medium and long terms strategies, and presented a rationale for actions needed to address
medium-term needs.
In conjunction with the National Biodiversity Strategy (1996) and the priorities outlined in
the Forest Sector Note, Government has also sought to strengthen its system of protected
area management, and applied for and received resources from the GEF to finance its
Biodiversity Conservation Management Project (BCMP). This US$ 8.8 million project,
launched in 1999, seeks tb establish effective intersectoral participatorv planning and
sustainable management of natural ecosystems and associated landscapes at three
demonstration sites in the Carpathian mountains, and mechanisms to support replication of
these activities at other priority sites. BCMP is a critical element of the overall approach
toward improving Romania's management of its forest resources.
The immediate and priority need identified in the Forest Sector Note was the preparation of a
coniprehensiveforestny sector policy and strategiy through an open, transparent and participatory
process. As a result, Government launched the participatory preparation of the National
Forestry Policy and Strategy (NFPS) over a ten-month period commencing in early 2000. The
NFPS was approved by the Government in 2001. The NFPS is available on the web at
http:/ / www.forestier.ro/ strategia/strO.htn.
(2)   World Bank. 1999. Romania Forest Sector Note: Stahis, Values and Need for Reforn. ECSSD
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Working Paper No. 18. October
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    1               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



The Government of Romania (GOR) requested the assistance of the World Bank to prepare
and to finance a Forest Development Project (FDP) to assist in implementing the most
important medium-term needs articulated in the strategic objectives of the NFPS.
The overall aim  of the FDP is to maintain andel to improve environmenitally sustainable
management of state andi privateforests and to increase thieir contribution to thec natioinal and nrral
econonies.
In line with this development objective, the FDP is intended to assist MAFF to: (a) establish
systems to ensure sustainable management of private forest lands, by building the capacity
of the Department of Forests and its Forest Inspectorate, supporting the development of
private forest owners associations, and establishing a forest management information and
monitoring system; (b) mitigate the consequences of restitution on the management of State
forest lands by assisting the National Forest Administration (NFA) to maintain, develop and
finance its role in managing protection forests, and to reduce potential negative
environmental impacts and to improve the efficiency of managing State production forests
through rehabilitation and development of the forest road network, piloting an effort to
introduce improved environmental standards in roads design and rehabilitation; (c) support
increased productivity and competitiveness of forest industries, through establishing and
operating a Forest Sector Business Information Center; and (d) build public support for
sustainable forest management by implementing a public awareness program targeting key
stakeholders with emphasis on new forest land owners and their associated communities.
It must be emphasized that all activities of the FDP are consistent with the strategic
actions of the National Forest Policy and Strategy, which was developed through an open,
transparent and participatory process and approved by the Government in 2001. Indeed,
FDP is very much an outcome of the NFPS process.
The project is to be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF)
over a six-year period. The activities which are to be carried out under the project are
described in more detail in Section 3. The Proposed Forest Development Project of this report.
1.2   NEED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
The FDP has been developed primarily to manage and to mitigate potential risks and to
enhance beneficial effects related to reinvigorating the forestry sector in Romania. One of the
key potential risks to the sector, identified early in the project development process, was the
Government of Romania's ongoing program of restitution of state land to former owners.
Under this program, a sigrificant portion of the state managed forest lands is to be returned
to its former owners. Early experience with forest land restitution in Romania has illustrated
the potential for unsustainable exploitation of forest resources and resultant environmental
damage. In light of this, a key objective of the FDP is to strengthen public and private sector
capacity to manage and mitigate potential adverse impacts and to enhance positive effects
associated with both private and public sector exploitation of forest resources. The Project is
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT      2               MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



also expected to attract a considerable degree of public interest in the forest sector in
Romania.
In addition, the project is to provide resources, on a pilot basis, to rehabilitate existing forest
roads, and to improve the forest road network by constructing new forest roads in forests
already managed for sustainable production according to approved forest management
plans. The lack of any screening or assessment process for forest roads development in
Romania has more generally been a source of some concem, and it was agreed that the
project should put in place mechanisms to ensure that potentially negative environmental
impacts of the rehabilitation and construction process are identified and mitigated during
implementation.
Because of the need better to articulate how the project seeks to mitigate some of the impacts
of restitution, and because of concerns about the impact of forest roads construction and
rehabilitation activities, the project was assigned as Environmental Category "A" project
during the internal process in the World Bank of screening possible investment projects for
their potential environmental impacts, requiring full public disclosure and consultation.
Bank policy has, since 1999, stipulated that Category A projects or components of projects
should undergo independent environmental assessment (EA) (OP 4.01 Environmental
Assessment, 1999) and associated public consultation and disclosure.
1.3    SCOPE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
The Environmental Assessment aims to assess the environmental implications of the
activities proposed under the FDP. In doing so, it provides recommendations to minimize
any potential negative effects and to optimize any positive outcomes.
When the original Environmental Assessment was prepared, it was proposed that a Sectoral
Environmental Assessment should be carried out because of the sectoral and strategic nature
of the FDP.3 In retrospect, the preparation of a Sectoral Environmental Assessment would
have been far more appropriate much earlier in the process, when a range of strategic
choices were still under discussion (for example, during preparation of the National Forest
Policy and Strategy or while the legislation with respect to restitution was being prepared),
but became less relevant during project preparation because most of these choices had
already been made as a result of the already completed strategic,.consultative and iterative
process. Indeed, the FDP must largely be seen to be an attempt to mitigate the potential
negative environmental impacts of a range of policy initiatives which extend far beyond the
immediate scope of the more narrowly defined investments proposed in the FDP.
(3)    The term 'Sectoral Environmental Assessment' is often used interchangeably with 'Strategic
Environmental Assessment.' Various reviews (cf. DonneDy et al) have pointed out the importance of
undertaking these types of assessments early enough in the process in order to contribute to the
development of a strategic decision, and have also pointed out that there is much confusion about
whether to use SEAs to describe plan/program level impacts, or to describe policy-level impacts,
leading to the growing view that SEAs wil need to be rethought so as to clearly distinguish between
(these) methodologically different approaches. (Ibid, 40). In some respects, the NFPS incorporated
important elements of an SEA.
ENVIRONN1ENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT        3                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



The proposal that the original Environmental Assessment should have taken a strategic
orientation was ultimately counterproductive because it presented a confusing picture of
what the project's likely impacts were going to be. The strategic approach implied that the
wider changes in forest management which are envisaged would take place only in the
presence of FDP funding, when in fact, these changes are already underway and would
have taken place in any event. The strategic approach ascribed a far greater impact to the
FDP than was warranted, and did not effectively follow the principle that an environmental
assessment should consider the with/without project scenario, rather than ascribing sector-
wide changes to what are in fact a fairly narrow range of investments. For example, the
project is not going to support the restitution process itself (a process adopted in policy and
already under implementation), but will instead help to mitigate the potential negative
impacts of restitution on forest cover and forest management.
This Environmental Assessment Update, then, seeks to clarify the particular elements of the
project which have wider sectoral relevance, focusing very specifically on those
environmental impacts which can be clearly articulated in terms of their sector-wide
relevance, as well as on more conventionally-defined and project-specific impacts. In this
latter respect, MAFF requested that a process for environmental screening and assessment of
the forest road component should be prepared as a key environmental management output
of the FDP EA. The process for doing this is described in Section 5. FDP's     Crntical
Environmental and Social Impacts and Mitigation Measures of this document. Thus, consistent
with World Bank OP 4.01, this Environmental Assessment considers some elements of both
a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (where these can be defined and are relevant) and the
instruments and elements specific to a project-specific Environmental Impact Assessment
(see Sections 7 and 8a of the World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 - Environmental
Assessment).
Without question, a major influence on the management of the forest sector in Romania in
the coming years will be the proposed restitution of State owned-lands to their pre-1948
owners. Its likely impact cannot be understated. At present, around 85 percent of Romania's
6.37 million hectares of forests are under State ownership. There has been strong political
pressure to return a significant proportion of this to its original owners.(4) Application of
Law No. 1/2000 will result in restitution of up to 3 million ha of forests. Previous experience
in Romania (1991/92) and elsewhere suggests that if restitution of forest land takes place
without adequate legal and institutional management and enforcement mechanisms, the
result could be the immediate harvesting of the timber resulting in loss of forest cover,
irreversible environmental degradation and significant long term economic losses for
Romania(5).
(4)   Project Appraisal Document (draft), Romania Forest Development Project (P067367), World Bank, 2001
(5)   Following restitution of around 353,000 ha of forest lands in Romania in 1991/2, approximately one
quarter of the area was clearfelled or the canopy closure index reduced below 0.6, and the remainder
harvested at unsustainable rates (Project Appraisal Document, World Bank, 2001). Most agricultural
... continued
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT       4                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



While the FDP has been conceived within the overall framework of plans for restitution, it
does not set out to finance the process of restitution. Rather, FDP accepts that restitution is
going to take place in any event, and seeks to put in place mechanisms better to enable
restituted forest owners to manage their forests in an environmentally sustainable manner.
A key indicator of the project's success will be the extent to which private forest owners
have adopted sound forest management practices.
1.4    STUDY APPROACHANDMETHODOLOGY
The Terms of Reference for the original Environmental Assessment described five key tasks
to be undertaken. In summary, these were as follows:
(a) Examination of the status, trends and institutional capacity for forest
management in Romania together with the key issues and findings of the
National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS);
(b) Close interaction with the MAFF and the consultants preparing the overall
Project design;
(c) Assessment of the environmental impacts of the proposed FDP activities and
proposal of mitigation measures which can be incorporated into the design of the
FDP;
(d) Public disclosure and consultation with stakeholders at national and local levels;
and
(e) Preparation of a draft and final EA report including an Environmental
Management Plan.
As per World Bank Policy on EA (OP 4.01) the Summary was made available in Romanian
to the public and distributed at the public consultation and disclosure meetings (see
Appendix 3: Consuiltations and Disclosure with respect to project preparation and in relation to
preparation . of the Environmental Assessment of the Forest Development Project for details
including dates, locations, listing of attendees etc.).  The complete Environmental
Assessment has been available via the Bank Infoshop since October 2001, and the complete
draft Project Appraisal Document has been available via the project's website since January
2002.
To meet the objectives of the study, ERM and local consultant Intergroup Engineering
carried out the following activities:
land was restituted in the early 1990s.  Restitution is strongly associated with the overall
democratization process,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT       5                NINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORES1T



* ERM carried out a scoping mission 2-9 May 2001 which included extensive liaison with
Fortech (the firm which was responsible for assisting Government in preparing the FDP);
liaison with the National Wood Institute (Institutul National al Lemnului, or INL)
including field visits with the government agencies responsible for forest road design
(INL) and forest management planning and operations (NFA) of several roads to be
included in the FDP;
* Development of a forest road screening system which was applied to the forest roads
proposed to be included in the FDP, derived in part from the Fortech report;
* Selection of two roads in conjunction with INL for which sample, project-specific EAs
which were carried out by Intergroup; and
* A second ERM mission to Romania from 31 May to 10 June, 2001 to prepare the draft EA
document and consult with MAFF and other relevant ministries, Fortech, Intergroup
Engineering, and other consultants involved in the preparation of the FDP including the
social assessment and public awareness consultants.
A draft and final Environmental Assessment was produced in June and October, 2001,
respectively, both of which were publicly reviewed and disclosed, as referred to in the
original EA and in Appendix 3: Conisultationzs and Disclosure withz respect to project preparation
and in relationi to preparationi of t/c Environmenital Assessment of thze Forest Development Project to
this Update. The FDP was formally Appraised in October, 2001. The Appraisal team
incorporated and took account of the findings of the Environmental Assessment. Because
the original Environmental Assessment was finalized prior to Appraisal (in accordance with
World Bank OP 4.01), it did not reflect some of the design decisions which were taken at that
stage.
This Environmental Assessment Update includes all the information contained in the
original EA, but provides additional information which was not included in the original
Environmental Assessment and provides fuller project information on the basis of decisions
taken at Appraisal. The Terms of Reference for this Update are included in Appendix 2: Terms
of Referencefor Environmental Assessment Update.
1.5   CONTENTS OF THis REPORT
This report presents in Volume I - Environmental Assessment of the Forest Development
Project - the findings of the tasks outlined in Section 1.4 above, and follows World Bank
requirements specified in Annex B of the Operational Policy 4.01 Environmental
Assessment. The sections of the EA report, are broken down into the following components:
Section 2 - presents the Policy, Legal and Administrative Context for forest sector management
and development in Romania, and for environmental assessment.
Section 3 - describes the FDP, by component and subcomponent;
ENVIRONM1ENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     6               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Sectioni 4 - presents a review of Baseline Environmental Conditions in the forestry sector in
Romania and in the project areas specifically;
Sectionl 5 - identifies and discusses likely Environmlental Imipacts with relevance to the
activities of the FDP. Mitigation Measuires for each negative impact are also proposed
together with anticipated responsibilities and rough cost and time requirements;
Section 6 - presents an Analysis of Alternatives to the FDP which were considered during the
project development stage;
Sectioni 7 - This section presents an Environnmental Manragement Plan (EMP) which details the
measures which need to be undertaken to enhance the success of the FDP and prevent
realization of any potential negative impacts of the FDP and its associated activities. The
Plan presents key responsibilities, requirements, timing and indicative costs for each
measure. The section concludes with a summary of additional recommendations which have
been made during the report.
T he final section - Appendices - presents the list of EA report preparers, records of
consultation meetings and public disclosure, maps, and other information about forested
areas in Romania.
Volume 11 of this Environmental Assessment Update- Annexes - contains related annexes,
background material, and associated reports. It also includes two examples presenting the
EAs for two of the FDP forest road sub-projects undertaken by Romanian consultants
Intergroup Engineering).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT        7                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                       8                       MINLSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



2.    POLICY, LEGAL, AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
2.1   POLICY AND LEGISLATION
2.1.1. Forest Policty
The current forestry policy environment in Romania has evolved from a number of
important elements over the last 30 years:
* Law no. 12 /1974 - regarding pisciculture and fishing;
* Law no. 9 /1982 - regarding the protection of under crop plants and forests and
pesticides regime
* 1991 - Promulgation of the Land restitution law (Law 18/1991), followed by the
restitution of about 350,000 ha of forest to the pre-nationalization owners (up to 1 ha per
person);
*  1992/93 - GOR, with assistance from FAO and the World Bank, undertook a review of
the forest sector that identified key areas for reform;
*  1995 - the Government developed a Forestry Strategy that identified key actions to guide
forest sector reform, but it did not address the issue of restitution of forest lands or
elaborate an integrated approach to sector development;
. 1996 - promulgation of the Forest Code (Law 26/24 April 1996) outlining general
provisions for the protection and long term management of the national 'Forestry Fund'
(divided into Production and Protection Forests: see Appendix 6: Protectioni Forests:
Funictional Categories and Permissible Felling Systems in Romnania);
* 1996 - Legislation regarding the hunting fund and protection of game (Law 103/1996)
* 1998 - A series of ordinances were passed with respect to forestry [These included
Governmental Ordinance No.21/1998 regarding certain measures for the improvement
by afforestation of degraded grounds; Governmental Ordinance No.96/1998 regarding
the forestry regime settlement and the national forestry fund management;
Governmental Decision No.404/1998 regarding the approval of the maximum volume of
wooden mass to be harvested; Governmental Decision No.695/1998 for the approval of
the Sale Regulation by the National Forestry Administration for the wooden mass
devoted to economical agents; Governmental Decision No.735/1998 for the approval of
the Instructions on traffic and traffic control of the wooden masses and installations for
the turning into of the round wood.]
* 1999 - Forest Sector Note working paper published by the World Bank(6) which identified
and described the status, values and reforms required in the Romanian forestry sector. It
outlined GOR's vision for the forestry sector, and a three phase strategy - immediate,
short term and medium term - which would be developed as the FDP;
* 2000 - Promulgation of Law 1/2000, according to which up to 3 million ha of forests
would be restituted to the former pre-nationalization owners (individuals, communities,
towns/villages, churches etc.)
(6)   World Bank (1999). Ibid.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT   9               IMIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



* 2000/2001 - Development and approval of the National Forestry Policy and Strategy
(NFPS): see below;
Natiolnal Forest Policy, and Strategy (NFPS)
The National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS) was developed during 2000. The NFPS, sets
the policy framework within which the FDP is expected to be implemented. Having been
endorsed at the Ministerial level, it was approved by the Government of Romania in 2001.
The guiding principles in development of the NFPS were:
*  To build oni progress (i.e. elements including the Romanian Government Development
Strategy, the Forest Code, the Silvicultural Strategy, the Comprehensive Development
Framework for Romania, and progress on EU Accession and EU Special Accession
Program for Rural Development, or SAPARD);
*  Sustainability - to a) develop a national forest policy and strategy that would support
sustainable forest management and b) identify and draft key policies, and schedules for
their adoption or implementation, that need to be addressed prior to and during
implementation of the FDP;
.  Partnerslzip - to ensure that the many players in forestry and related sectors were
involved in NFPS development through effective participation and consensus decision-
making;
*  Participationi - amongst key stakeholders to ensure ownership of the NFPS amongst those
who were involved in preparing it, and through broader public participation to provide
credibility and transparency;
* Inter-sectoral - to avoid the forest sector being treated in isolation;
* National policy commitment - during NFPS development and the subsequent
implementation phase.
The key elements of the NFPS are summarized in Figure 1. Other important elements of the
NFPS refer specifically to:
A. Silviculture/Management
A1.4  Harmonization of the forest administration system with European practice.
A2.5  Modernization of the forest management planning system.
A5.1  Upgrading and consolidation of existing forest roads.
A5.2  Increase the density of the forest road network.
A5.3  Development of the access network within forest compartments.
A8.2 Inclusion of aspects relating to biodiversity and the management of protected
areas in forest management plans.
B. Logging, Transport and Wood Processing
B3.1  Increase  the  accessibility  of  forests,  by  designing  an  internal
skidding/collection network, oriented towards reducing the average
skidding/collection distance and use of environrnentally-friendly methods
and technologies.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT   10              MIN1TSRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



B3.2      Development of an integrated skidding/collection system in order to protect
the forest.
Figure 1: Summany of the National Forestry Policy and Strategyjfor Romania
Overall Goal                         The de-lopmenl of lb, -orst, Sector to intr,s its
tonlriboo. n tlb,emproetenttnlb.qoalt! of lif
/btu,ed on the ,ertoieblt mueseemeot of lb. forest resource.\
b/     , .                                    ,h oft\1-
hUS l^cohort & lsugeonlent  LouisteTeuespon PeoceSsl-f  Markella      Resear-ch d Ed.d  lioE
|n eonsure totestmn ottoatteot  The bet fnutili,oatof .ood  The etket d-vlopttnt Ofr of tm  Dvbplorttof siolitic reSe-ch
Sector    | accord-ng to Onepiociples of  tesouftol uongh the  resou es. u paricula high  ad eduaoo. f.or Lhe sustam.ablo
Polics   |   susta-tbltnbnatrc orf  intyton of lhe ooftnc ad  ddcd-s-lu productso  oranagco of forest the coonmi
."iutIl ro tUt . g tabng ino  wood pootff g m tliotes m-hi-e th, s o,,toablc  deionipeoo of the fores-  sector
account the d-tlsity i  nitirto the f-e rk of  de,olupterofte setlor  and sop mnreorl un thr quality of
for=st lnd onoerShip  sostatahle frest roaoaeo                     t he nnsitromtn-t at --roal.
S:rutegic   Fotlst adnutfiood     Efficicocy el-6        M.ukeatim irfrast nurc  For-st r.esach & eucation
Obelvs * loleer s of Iho forrot food )  Ectoouonrerrul peautices  Macbet denrlopeocm  en  Ctedetelutoert
Objectives   Dcgtaudcd fore-E,po.n.                       M.c cy..                .  dcp
snd       Forest cosytems & bhodivnstl) * Ir.)- aCces   Addod A.1c             Etenoen sonnet.
Actions     Atfcessibifil, oorest fund
.SFMs
* Protected oat
Gaoe ad Fish resoutes
* No. tmbh, foret ptoducto
Strategic      The deelopmmlortf institutionl                       LEocorugrloent of the aocrioo of
Objectives    Iht-kor o impleenmt inacohcot  Thede-elporolo of the eislattni  pri,ot mforestnons. pansron ad
Government. 1    4nd sussatoablo fashion the deneloperce  fraes or k for the foresoy soctr  poressioc compnmies in pro lesional
Level           stregs for the fl e stary sector                        o, paltnal orpanisu oros
The principal policy statement within the NFPS concerning Logging, Transport and Wood
Processing is:
'The better utilization of wood resources through the integration of logging and
wood processing activities within the concept of sustainable management of the
natural resource.'
Restitution offorest lands
Under Land Law 1/2000 the GOR has committed to return a second tranche of currently
state-owned land to its original owners. According to Law 1/2000 all community, town and
communal forests will be restituted to their former owners. The restitution is limited to 10 ha
for individuals (natural persons) and 30 ha for churches, irrespective of the size of their
ownership before 1948 nationalization. Claims have been submitted for just over 3 million
hectares of forest land currently owned by the state and managed by the NFA (see Table 1).
When the restitution process triggered by Law 1/2000 is complete the number of private
forest owners will increase to around 600,000. Private owners include individuals,
communities and a variety of institutions, e.g. municipalities and churches.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT                          11                        MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 1: Statuis of restitution offorest land utnder Laztw
12000 (as of May 2002)
Category                                  Area ('000 ha)
Total forest land available for restitution  4,306
Total claims                                 3,032
Claims validated by county cormnissions      1,400
Alreadv restituted                            716
Source: NFA - Information Bulletin June, 2002
The first period of forest restitution in 1991/92 restored 353,630 hectares of forest land to its
former owners. The environmental impacts of the restitution were poorly monitored, but it
has been suggested that many owners viewed the standing timber on restituted lands as a
potential cash windfall. In some areas serious environmental damage ensued as the new
owners cashed in by felling the timber (and in some cases clear-cutting), which drastically
reduced forest cover and the long-term value of the forest fund (see Box 3). More than a
quarter of the forest lands restituted in 1991 have been clear-felled or now have a canopy
closure of less than 0.4, and harvesting in many of the remaining privatized forests has
exceeded annual allowable cuts (MAFF, 2001).
The Forest Sector Note (World Bank, 1999) identified a number of policy and institutional
reforms, and actions, required for restitution to be carried through in a sustainable manner.
These primarily focused on establishing the policy framework and administrative
procedures for restitution and management to ensure that the process is ecologically
sustainable, socially just, economically efficient and administratively feasible and on
creating an extension system for new owners of forest land, to advise and assist them in
establishing appropriate systems for forest management. If these steps could be undertaken,
it concluded that a medium-term program of forest restitution would make sense.
The institutional implications of forest restitution for the DoF and NFA are being addressed
within the FDP, which will support capacity building to supervise, monitor and regulate the
sustainable management of the forest resource. A range of activities within FDP components
are specifically targeted at building private sector capacity for sustainable forest
management.
2.1.2. Environmental Policy and Strategy
The development of environmental policy in Romania is driven primarily by the
requirements of EU pre-Accession. The framing of new legislation and the modification of
existing laws and regulations, to transpose the requirements of environmental Directives
both logically and completely into law is a challenging task for which the Romanian
government is receiving support from the EU Phare program, western European bilateral
donors and others.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURcES MANAGEMENT        12                MINsTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORErss



The Romanian Environmental Protection Strategy was published in 1996(n) and a new
Strategy was developed in 2000. It reviewed the state of Romania's environment and
established priorities and defined actions to address those priorities in the context of
Romania's national targets for transition to a market economy and pre-Accession. The
majority of the measures proposed to meet the short and medium term targets in the
Strategy relate to building capacity, strengthening policy and regulation, meeting
obligations under various international conventions and programs, and addressing specific
environmental management/pollution issues (e.g. waste management and wastewater
treatment). There are, however, several measures in the Strategy which are more directly
relevant to the DoF and to the FDP. The Strategy articulates the need to provide for:
* protection against natural disasters (including: development of forest belts and other
drought alleviation and soil erosion measures; flood prevention; and landslide control);
* increasing the role of forests in environmental rehabilitation and protection (including:
enlargement of the forest fund; silvicultural management; sustainable exploitation of the
timber value of the forest its maximum regenerative capacity). This measure specifically
refers to the need to develop the network of forest roads;
*  rehabilitation of areas designated for hunting, and its maintenance 'within the normal
limits'; and
* preservation of biological diversity (through extension of reserves and parks).
2.1.3. Environmental Impact Assessment
Domestic legislation: Regulations for Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) were
formally introduced by the Environmental Protection Law No. 137/1995 (and subsequent
amendments). This established the principles and framework for introducing EIA to
Romania, and outlined procedures, participants and their responsibilities, and a listed
activities for which EIAs are mandatory. Detailed guidance on EIA methodology,
procedures, report content etc. is contained in Ministerial Order No. 125/1996 Pernitting
Procedurefor Economic and Social Activities Having an Environmental Impact.
EIAs can only be carried out by authorized EIA practitioners. Procedures for certifying EIA
and environmental audit specialists are given in Ministerial Order 278/1996. Significantly,
the persons or organization carrying out an EIA of a proposed development must be legally
independent of the developer.
For state-level projects, the authority to issue an environmental agreement rests with
MWEP. Regional and local projects are dealt with by MWEPs county-level Environmental
Protection Agencies (EPAs).
(7)   Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environment Protection, 1996. Environment Protection Strategy.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    13              MINISTRY Of AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Forest roads are not listed in Appendix 2 of the Environmental Protection Law, and
therefore do not require a formal EIA. Roads in 'protected areas' are listed, and therefore do
require EIA.
Currently, the Forest Management and Research Institute (Institutul de Cercetari si
Amenajari Silvice, or ICAS), has the only license to undertake ElAs on forest land. Typical
activities requiring EIA in forests are mining and oil exploration. As yet, ICAS has not
carried out any impact studies on proposed forest roads. Roads are very much the domain
of INL (the National Wood Institute), which is almost always the successful bidder for
contracts for new forest road feasibility and design studies. Feasibility Studies for new forest
road construction do not require a formal environmental assessment. The INL also has
authority to undertake ElAs but not specifically in forests.
Constraints to the development of EA in Romania, as seen by ICAS, include:
lack of previous experience;
* large cadre of senior staff requiring re-training, attitudinal change and awareness-
building;
l limited domestic capacity for postgraduate training in environmental impact assessment;
* lack of private sector capacity
There is no national legislation in place relating to Sectoral Environmental Assessments.
International issues: The driving force for the new environmental policy and legislation has
been the Association Agreement signed with the European Union. Consequently, in the
interests of harmonization, the basis for the EIA regulations in Romania is EC Directive
85/337/EEC on Environmental Impact Assessment as amended by 97/11/EEC.
This EC Directive sets out the requirements for undertaking EIAs before consent should be
granted for public and private projects which are likely to have a significant impact on the
environment. Projects are classified in two groups: projects listed in Annex I to the Directive
are subject to compulsory EIA while for projects in Annex II, the assessment is discretionary.
EIAs prepared under the Directive are to cover effects of projects on humans, fauna and
flora, soil, water, air, climate and the landscape, material assets and cultural heritage as well
as the interactions between these factors. Authorities with environmental responsibilities
and the public, are expected to be properly and timely informed and have the possibility to
give their opinion. Finally, all these elements are to be taken into account in the final
decision to authorize the project, and the public and the environmental authorities are to be
informed of the decision and the results of the assessment process.
Several institutional models exist for handling EIA procedures in EC Member States. These
range from options in which the central government department or ministry is appointed
the competent authority for all permitting procedures, to one in which the majority of the
responsibility is delegated to regional and local authorities. This second approach would
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT     14               NfINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



also make arrangements for public consultation more practical as it would bring the process
closer to the main protagonists. The latter model applies in Romania, where Regional and
local projects are dealt with by MWEP's county-level Environmental Protection Agencies
(EPAs).
Under the EC Directive, forestry and silvicultural operations are largely exempt from
mandatory environmental assessment, i.e. no forestry or silvicultural operations (including
forest roads) are listed in Annex I to the Directive. Under Annex II, ElAs may be required in
the case of projects which resulted in initial afforestation or deforestation for the purposes of
conversion to another type of land use [Annex II, Section 1 (d)]; or for the construction of
new roads[Annex II, Section 10(e)]. The Directive leaves it to the discretion of Member States
to determine whether an EIA should be required in these instances either on a case-by-case
examination, or by relying on thresholds or criteria for specific types of projects or by a
mixture of the two methods.
The EC Directive which relates to Sectoral Environmental Assessment (EC Directive
2001/42/EC of 27 June 2001 on the assessment of certain affects of plans and programs on
the Environment) has only recently been adopted, and will come into effect 3 years from the
date of adoption. The Directive (in Article 3) is specific to 'plans and programs ... which are
likely to have significant environmental effects' and which are prepared inter alia for the
forestry sector 'and which set the framework for future development consent of projects
listed in Annexes I and II' in the Directive on Environmental Assessment. Read in
conjunction with Annex II of the Directive on Environmental Assessment, it becomes clear
that the sectoral directive would apply, then, in the case of plans or programs which result
in initial afforestation or deforestation for the purposes of conversion to another type of land
use, or for a sector-wide roads program.
With respect to public disclosure, the applicable EC Directive is 90/313/EEC on Access to
Etnvironm7enital Information (90/313/EEC).  This directive requires public authorities to
provide the public with access to, and to disseminate, environmental information they hold.
The Directive sets the basic conditions, but EC Member States are responsible for defining
the practical arrangements under which information should be made available. According to
the Directive, the information must be provided to any person at their request, without them
having to prove an interest and at the latest within two months after the request has been
made. The directive allows authorities to charge reasonable costs for making the information
available to the public. A request for information may be refused when it affects certain
interests defined by the Directive e.g. public security, commercial and industrial
confidentiality or international relations. Under the Directive, Member States should
provide general information to the public on the state of environment.
In 1998 Romania signed the UNECE Convention on the Access to Information, Public
Participation in Decision-Making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters (Aarhus
Convention).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     15              MINITRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



EIA anid wnter legislationi
Water is managed under the Water Lazv (No. 107/1996). Article 31 of this law deals with
forests. Paragraph (4) of Article 31 requires forests to be managed so as not to contribute to
floods and soil erosion (Box 1). Developments (but not, normally, forest roads) which may
affect water are subject to a permitting system. Permits are issued by local offices of MWEP,
and may contain conditions relating to water quality. These conditions are, typically, water
quality standards which should not be exceeded, rather than methods of construction or
operation intended to prevent pollution.
The Water Law does not appear to consider sediment and other natural materials to be
'waste', i.e. a polluting substance within the meaning of the Act.
Regulations under the Water Law were issued in 1997 (Ministerial Order No. 277/1997).
This Order specifies the documentation required to obtain a permit under the act. In
response to Article 31 of the Law, Article 32 of the Order deals specifically with forest
management plans. Forest management plan documents are required to cover, inter alia:
'...the expected effects of forest mainagement plan implementation on soil stability and on
conservation of aquatic ecosystems.'
Box 1: Water Law No. 107/1996, Article 31
(1)    The forests having special protection functions, from the reception of the
reservoirs, those in basins of high torrential degree and prone to erosion, in
major river beds, in the dam-bank areas, as well as the forest belts located
along undammed rivers belong to the group of forests with special
protection functions and are managed as such, through intensive treatments,
the clear-cuttings or short-time regenerating treatments being forbidden.
(2)    The water protection forests, the soil protection ones located on cliffs,
detritus areas, on eroded soil, on lands of slopes higher than 35o, and other
such forests are managed under special protection regime.
(3)    Within the areas mentioned in paragraphs (1) and (2) works of soil erosion
control and torrent annihilation shall be performed, and special rules of
maintaining such works shall be applied.
(4)    The forests in the mountain and hill areas must be managed in such a way so
as not to contribute to the development of floods and soil erosion.
Source: English translation supplied by Water Management General Directorate,
Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection, 9/3/2001
2.1.4. Policies Toward Biodiversity and Protected Area Management
As a signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), in the mid-90s Romania
developed a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (1996), with four principal
biodiversity conservation priorities:
(1)    development of the legal framework and capacity building;
(2)    organization of the national systems of protected areas;
(3)    in-situ and ex-situ conservation of threatened, economically-valuable species;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT            16                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



(4)   conservation outside formal protected areas through changes in land-use, land
management, habitat restoration etc.
Within these overall strategic priorities, priority actions include:
'Elaborationi of a mlodel admiinistrationi (inl 3-4forest districts witlh representative bioclilmatic
zones aid laIyers) for thte suistainable manttagemienit offorests contsistenit witli the principles anid
actions required under the CBD.'
A summary of Romania's biodiversity, threats, legal and institutional framework, and the
national biodiversity strategy can be found at:
vvvww.vgrida.no/enrin/ biodiv /national/roomania/.
Romania takes part in many regional conservation initiatives, as part of 'The Environment
for Europe' process.
Law 5/2000 includes the list of protected areas in Romania and in 2001 the Parliament
passed Law 462 regarding the management of protected areas and the conservation of
natural habitats, wild flora and fauna.
The GOR is receiving assistance from the GEF through the Biodiversity Contservationi
Management Project which is under implementation. The project is being implemented by
the NFA, and technical assistance is being provided by the international NGO Fauna and
Flora International (FFI). The project is supporting conservation of Romanian forest, alpine
and meadow ecosystems in the Carpathian mountains, which are among the last and largest
tracts of relatively undisturbed forests in Europe.
The project was designed to develop a legal framework for a network of protected areas and
to develop staff capacity to fill such roles. The project is demonstrating how biodiversity
conservation can be incorporated into forest management planning, and how these efforts
can be coordinated to maintain the viability of Carpathian ecosystems. The project is
comprised of several sets of activities:
1. Strengthening the National Framework for Biodiversity Conservation (US$1.1
million) through participatory review and revision of the legal and regulatory
framework for protected area management. This component entails the review of
existing draft legislation, preparation of a national law for protected areas, and
development of site specific regulations for project demonstration sites. The project is
building the capacity of the Directorate of Nature and Biodiversity Conservation
(DNBC) of the Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection (MWEP) to plan and
lead biodiversity conservation initiatives at the national level. These activities
include developing and operationalizing a prioritized national strategy for
establishing an effective system of protected areas, building public support for
biodiversity conservation, establishing a national biodiversity monitoring system,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT       17                NINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



and strengthening regional initiatives to conserve Carpathian ecosystems. In
addition, a strategy will be developed to mainstream biodiversitv conservation in
forest management planning at the level of the ecosystem, rather than in smaller
"forest production units".
2. Developing Models for Protected Areas and Forest Park Management (US$6.2
million) for planning and management of biodiversity at three demonstration sites.
The project is developing conservation management planning systems, and
providing equipment, training and facilities, including visitor centers at all three
sites. It will undertaken baseline ecological surveys and put in place biodiversity
monitoring systems to provide periodic feedback on the status of ecosystems and
their biodiversity, particularly as they relate to known threats such as over grazing,
tourism impacts, hunting, and other forms of resource use. In addition it is
establishing mechanisms to reduce the unsustainable use of shared resources such as
grazing and forest products, and is developing a strategy for eco-tourism, which will
focus on demonstrating links between conservation and economic benefits for local
communities. The three pilot sites are,
a. Retezat National Park Biosphere Reserve in the southwestern Carpathians,
which includes pristine mountain forest and alpine ecosystems. A National
Park conservation strategy is being piloted here.
b. Piatra Craiului-Bucegi Natural Park in the south central Carpathians includes
pristine mixed and coniferous forests and alpine ecosystems, surrounded by
production landscapes. Here, the European Ecological Network concept is
guiding development of sustainable eco-tourism, grazing and agriculture.
c. Vanatori-Neamt Forest Park in the northeast Carpathians includes natural
mixed hill-forest and meadows. A strategy of biodiversity conservation
through sustainable forest management is being tested here.
This component is also developing and show-casing forest management practices
that address biodiversity concerns, including incorporating biodiversity in the NFA
forest management planning system, and exploring and disseminating the economic
rationale for independent certification of forest products. In addition a European
bison reintroduction program is under implementation at the Vanatori-Neamt Forest
Park, which is part of its former natural range. The bison population will provide a
"flagship" for public awareness of forest ecosystems, and also a mechanism for
ecological reconstruction and maintenance of the natural diversity of this areas
mixed forest and meadow ecosystems.
3. Building Public Support for Biodiversity Conservation (US$0.7 million) is being
achieved through preparation and implementation of both national and park level
strategies and targeted action plans for raising the awareness of specific stakeholder
groups and the general public about the importance of, and opportunities for,
biodiversity conservation. Action plans are targeting priority groups such as national
policy makers, protected area site visitors and primary school children. Possible
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    18               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



delivery mechanisms for the public awareness program include mass media, formal
and informal education, and networking and the development of linkages with
related conservation initiatives in Romania and elsewhere. The component
incorporates and encourages commercially sustainable options such as private sector
development of publications, eco-tourism, and the use of eco-labeling in marketing
products that are linked with conservation needs and opportunities.
2.2   INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR FOREST CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT IN
ROMANIA
Institutional arrangements have changed significantly starting within the first few months of
2001, first with the removal of the forestry remit from the former Ministry of Waters, Forests
and Environmental Protection (now the Ministry of Waters and Environmental Protection)
to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF), and the further reorganization of
the DoF from four General Directorates subsequently to two.
This section provides a summary of the current status of the institutions relevant to
management of the forestry sector, based on published and unpublished documents, and
discussions with officials from MAFF, the National Forest Administration, FDP PPT team
members and others.
The main institutions and organizations relevant to sustainable management of Romania's
forest resources are shown in Table 2. It should be noted, however, that further changes to
institutional structures, linkages and responsibilities are possible.
The following section provides a brief overview of each institution, including the non-
governmental sector.
2.2.1. Departtnent of Forests
The Romanian public authority responsible for forests is the Department of Forests (DoF) in
the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF). Within the MAFF, the DoF has two
Directorates including a Forest Inspectorate, each reporting directly to the Secretary of State
for Forests (Figure 2). All of the DoF staff, apart from the 16 Forest Inspectorate Branch
Offices (spread all over the country) is based in Bucharest. The recently reorganized DoF has
combined the regional offices of the Hunting and Game Management with the Forest
Inspectorate into one unit with a mainly supervisory and control role. Regulatory functions
are the responsibility of the Strategy, Policy and Legislation Directorate, while support
functions are concentrated in the newly-formed Private Forests Management Service.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT   19              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 2: Institiutiona l responsibilities of key Romantiant institutions relevant to forestry and
the environmett
Institution              Areas of responsibiliht relevant to forestry and the environment
Department of Forests    .  Co-ordinate development/ implementation of national sustainable forest
(DoF), IAFF                 management strategy
*   Elaborate/promote technical norms re. Forestry, and collaboration with other
Directorates/ Ministries
*   Co-ordinate forest protection survey system, and realize forest protection
program
*   Co-ordinate activities relating to protected areas
*   National co-ordination of ecological reconstruction activities (afforestation of
degraded agricultural lands)
*   Propose studies/programs for ecological reconstruction and protected areas
*   Co-ordinate with Directorate of Private Forest Management to elaborate
studies, prognosis, programs for sustainable management of forests
*   Approve methodology/rules to estimate game numbers, determine optimum
population size and calculate annual harvesting quotas
*   Analyze and verify FMP implementation;
*   Monitor/control harvesting to prevent environmental damage
*   Monitor/control road construction and maintenance
*   Identify/follow up on illegal activities
*   Organize/co-ordinate Regional Inspectorates with respect to forest and hunting
regime
*   Undertake public awareness in relation to forestry, especially private owners
*   Afforestation/amelioration activities
a   Develop national criteria/indicators for sustainable forest management
*   Co-ordinate with Directorate of Strategy. Policy and Legislation to elaborate
studies, prognosis, programs for sustainable management of forests
National Forest Administra- a  Implement national forest strategy for forests under its stewardship to ensure
tion (NFA) (formerly known   protection, conservation, long term development of state forest assets
as Romsilva)             .   Forest management of private and community owned forest, on agreed basis
*   Administer/manage protected areas, including national parks
*   Manage hunting and fishing territories
*   Ensure that state forests contribute to improvement of the environment
*   Provision of timber to the timber industry
Forest Research and Ma-  *   Forest management planning (FMP) services and inventory
nagement Planning Institute *  Investment planning capability/services, including EIA, ecological
(ICAS)                       reconstruction, flood control, road planning
*   Research: including forest protection and monitoring, biodiversity, ecology,
GIS, FMP, watershed management, wildlife conservation, conservation,
sustainable development
Association of Private Forest *  Promotion of awareness of forest ownership
Owners (APPR)            *   Support at local level for all aspects of forest management
*   Sustainable use of forest resources
Ministry of Waters and   *   Transposition of environmental legislation
Environmental Protection  *  Review/permitting of ElAs for forestry activities
(MWEP)                   *   Water management
*   Responsibility for national Environmental and Biodiversity Strategies
National Wood Institute  *   Forest road feasibility studies
(INL)
Source: ERM consultations with key players; Fortech, Dames & Moore, and Project Management (2001): Romania,
Forest Development Project. Final Report.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT           20                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Directorate for Forest Strategies, Policy anrd Regulationis
The role of the Directorate for Forest Strategies, Policy and Regulations is to:
   Co-ordinate the   development and      implementation    of the  national strategy   for
sustainable forest management, and for forest vegetation outside the forest fund (See
Articles 1-9 of The Forest Code, Law No. 26/24 1996 for definitions of forest vegetation
and forest fund).
o   Co-ordinate the development of specific strategies for the various forest sector areas and
integrate with the national forest strategy;
* Harmonize the national forest legislation with EU legislation;
* Co-ordinate the collaboration with FAO and international forestry activities;
. Elaborate and promote technical, legal and economic norms regarding forestry and
collaborate with other Directorates and Ministries in this regard;
o Co-ordinate the forest protection survey system and the implementation of the forest
protection program;
* Co-ordinate the activities related to protected areas;
e Co-ordinate the ecological reconstruction activities and the afforestation of degraded
agricultural lands;
4 Propose the development of studies and research programs for ecological reconstruction
and protected areas; and
* Co-ordinate the development of studies, prognosis and programs for the sustainable
management of private and public forests.
Figure 2: The structure of the Departmenit of Forests within MAFF (April 2002)
[Minister for MAFF
Secretary of State for Forestry
Directorate                              Directorate Silvic Regime
Strategy, Policy and                             inspection
Legislation                  .P.
Control of Silvic  Forest Fund,
Strategy, Policy  cBiodivesitycand  Game       Regime      Mgmt Planning   Privare Forest
And Legislation  E colica      Management   (Inspectorate)  & Accessability  Management
Forest Inspectorate
The main role and tasks of the Forest Inspectorate are defined in Government Decision No.
12/2001 and are summarized below:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES N1ANAGEMENT          21                  NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



* Organize and co-ordinate the inspection of forests for compliance with law and
regulations, irrespective of type of ownership;
Analyze and verify the implementation of forest management plans;
Monitor and control the application of technical norms and standards regarding the
location of the felled area, harvesting and sale of roundwood;
*  Monitor and control the harvesting activity and stop operations where a breach of
regulations occurs (including where harvesting endangers forest vegetation, or causes
environmental damage);
* Monitor and control the road construction and maintenance and the adherence to
technical norms and standards;
* Monitor and control the provenance of reproduction material;
* Carry out checks and inspections on wood trading activities;
* Identify the breaches of legislation and inform police for legal prosecution;
* Identify and follow up on illegal activities and determine the sanctions according to the
law;
* Organize and co-ordinate the activity of the regional inspectorates for forest and hunting
regime;
* Analyze, monitor and control the regeneration of harvested areas and afforestation of
new lands; and
 Monitor and control the activities related to pest and disease control.
There are 16 Branch Offices (Territorial Inspectorates) reporting to the Forest Inspectorate
Headquarters. Branch Offices have responsibility for two to four whole counties depending
on the degree of forest cover and geographic spread. Each Branch Office has a similar
structure to that of its parent headquarters but also includes the newly formed Silvic
Districts within its remit. The Branch Offices are legal entities under the law and as such are
empowered to undertake legal actions. This is an innovation intended to devolve power
down through the new organization.
The Forest Inspectorate is in its infancy and although it functioned under the former
Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection, in practice for most of its
existence it was confined to a small staff based in Bucharest. It was not until early 2000 that
its staffing was structured in anticipation of the planned restitution. There are no detailed
standard operating procedures documented for staff apart from those relating to hunting
and game management. There are some immediate plans to develop such procedures and
become more efficient. In April 2002 staffing at Headquarters, Branch Office and Silvic
District totaled 301.
The Forests Inspectorate reports to the Minister of Agriculture, Food, and Forests, but is
independent of the autonomous National Forest Administration and has no reporting or
financial relationship to the NFA. The NFA (as a government-owned institution which has
responsibility for all production and protection forests), however, also reports to the
Minister of Agriculture, Food, and Forests. This relationship between the institutions with
responsibility for forest management in Romania is strikingly similar in many respects to the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT     22               MIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



structure of forest management institutions across Europe.8 What is more important than
this institutional structure is the ability of both institutions to deliver on their mandates.
2.2.2. Nationial Forest Administration
While policy, regulatory, and oversight functions are the responsibility of the Department of
Forests, Romanian state forests are under the administration and management of the
National Forest Administration (NFA). The NFA was established in 1996 as a legal state-
owned entity with an essentially commercial mandate. The public company had first been
created by Government Decision No. 1335/ December 1990 under the name, Autonomous
Forest Administration. This was reorganized as the NFA by Government Decision No.
1112/ November 1996. The NFA operates as a financially autonomous organization
performing forest management, protection, and silvicultural operations, engaging in
production of non timber forest products and services and providing a range of public
service functions. It reports to the State Secretary for Forestry within the MAFF.
The NFA is responsible for managing State forest land (February 2002 around 85 percent of
all forests), under policy and legislative direction from the Department of Forests.
Government Decision No. 173/ January 2001 determines the scope and type of activities that
can be undertaken by the NFA. These are broad ranging and enable the NFA to undertake,
in addition to the normal range of management and silvicultural activities, the following:
*  Forest management of private or community owned forests on an agreement basis;
* Primary processing of wood;
* Lease or r ent assets;
* Purchase or accept donations of private owned land for afforestation;
* Process non timber forest products - forest fruits, mushrooms, medicinal plants etc; and
* Organize the state owned forest inventory according to existing rules and legislation.
The NFA is responsible for the administration and management of protected forest areas
including national parks. It must also ensure that state forests contribute to the improvement
of the environment and ensure a steady supply of wood for the national economy.
In summary the tasks of the NFA are to (a) implement the national forest strategy for the
forests under its stewardship to ensure the protection, conservation and long term
development of state forest assets, (b) manage hunting and fishing territories, (c) turn to
account specific forest products, (d) perform duties of public service related to forests and
(e) undertake the required measures to obtain financial profit.
The organizational structure (number of Branches and Districts) is defined in the
Government Decision No. 173 / January 2001. The NFA has a Headquarters, 36 County
(8)   Similar structures, where forests are managed by financially independent organizations subject to
oversight from a regulatory authority, exist in France, Ireland, Austria, the state of Hess in Germany,
Croatia and Latvia, among others.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT     23               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Branches and 380 Forest Districts, Forest Research and Management Planning Institute
(ICAS) and the forest magazine editorial board (Figure 2). The Headquarters consists of a
General Manager who reports to a seven member Board of Directors, a management
committee and four Directorates - forest stock, technical, production, hunting and fishing,
and economic.
The Branch offices have a mainly supervisory and monitoring role. Forest Districts operate
along the lines of "Profit Centers" and vary in size from up to 6,000 ha in the plains to over
20,000 ha in mountainous regions and consist of a number of sub-districts which in turn are
comprised of around five forest ranges. This area-based structure is fairly traditional within
State owned forest enterprises which do not operate on a truly commercial mandate or in an
open market environment. Non-core activities (forest fruits, fish farms, mushrooms,
wickerwork, charcoal, timber processing etc.) report to the Forest District and are not
organized along business unit lines, despite their significant contribution to revenue and
NFA's mandate to undertake non-core activities on a commercial basis.
With respect for forest roads rehabilitation and construction, the NFA is the decision making
and management body. The identification of need for new roads and/or rehabilitation
works is made at the district level on the basis of each district's 10-year management plan
(which are prepared by ICAS). The current approval process for forest road works is
illustrated in Box 2.
Figure 2. NFA Organzizationial Structure (April 2002)
LDBoard of Direc rotor
r----................I..................
*Forcst Magazine Editorial BoaTd-.                       Fores Research & ManaGeaent Instdutei
........................................................   . ....... Gneral  M anager  ................ ......................................................
| Management Committe|                                  Secretariat, Legal, PR and Safetyl
Forest Director |     Technical Director |       Production, Hunting   Economic Direc tor|
t & Fishing Director
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENTo      24                  MsR OFARCLUE OD         aNFOET
_Forest Stock &        tI                      A    Pouto                iac-Acutn
Logging ConDtrol                                                       &EcnmcAayi
.       _    _ Investment- Developmen
Forest Management                             _    Hunting & Trout
_Planning, Protected    .Farming                                         Human Resources,
Areas & Silvo-toun'sm                            .Organization &
.  _  Insormatlon Technolog)                          ~~~~~~~Programming
.                  [ ~~~~~~~Marketing & Business
,                                           m~~~e  Relationships
_strategic Service        ors   tec onmiistrtio
36 Branch Offices
l 380 Forest Districts|
ENVIRONMIENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT           24                  NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORET



The National Wood Institute (Institutul National al Lemnului, or INL is a formerly public
agency which now operates as an autonomous public/private company, and which has the
dominant share of the road design market in Romania, including forest roads. INL has its
headquarters in Bucharest and has branch offices throughout the country. It works closely
with the NFA branch and district offices in the design and permitting process for the
majority of forest road projects.
There are two other institutions with evolving oversight responsibilities for forest roads:
The Forest Inspectorate; and
The Forest Research and Management Planning Institute.
The Forest Inspectorate (FI) is an oversight body, the role and functions of which include
monitoring conformance with the forest management plans FMPs and responsibility for
regulating and monitoring environmental performance of forestry activities. One of the
recommendations of this EA of the FDP is that the Forest Inspectorate should work closely
with the Forest Roads Engineer in the PCT for regulating and monitoring environmental
performance in the forestry sector in relation to forest roads, extraction activities and forest
management plans (see Section 5.  FDP's Critical Environmental aid Social Impacts and
Mitigation Measures).
The Forest Research and Management Planning Institute (ICAS) reports to the general
manager of the NFA, and provides 'in-house' services to NFA including preparation of
forest management plans (FMPs) and providing other technical support which assists the
NFA to carry out its remit. The services it offers are being expanded and recently included
capability to prepare ElAs for forest roads. Although effectively operating under the NFA,
ICAS is a financially independent entity subsisting on revenues generated; technically and
scientifically, it reports to DoF.
2.2.3. Non-governmental Organizations
The Association of Private Forest Owners (APPR) is a national level umbrella organization
established in 1998 representing all categories of private forest owners in Romania. It is a
registered non-governmental, non-profit legal entity and its funding comes from
membership fees and sponsorship. At the end of 2001 its membership included about 120
local and county associations, communes, town halls and individual members. APPR's main
aims are:
*  Promotion of awareness of forest ownership;
*  Support for understanding   of forest legislation, in particular the rights and
responsibilities of private owners;
*  Support for association members at local level in all aspects of forest management;
*  Organizing and consolidation of private owners into local and county associations; and
*  The sustainable use of forest resources.
The association is not a member of the European Private Forest Owners Association
although it has been invited to participate at a number of meetings.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MiANAGEMENT     25              NMINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Box 2: Current approval processforforest roads
1. Forest District and/or Branch of NFA prepare short Pre-Feasibility study.
Consultants (e.g., INL) may be involved.
2. NFA's central investment office screens Pre-Feasibilitv studies and selects
some to go forward.
3. NFA (Bucharest) prepares Tenns of Reference for the Feasibiliqt Studs and
Technical Report.
4. Tendering for studies ('auction').
5. Preparation of Feasibility Study by the successful consultant (e.g. INL), in
prescribed format.
6. Circulation of Feasibility Study to concerned agencies for approval,
including local authorities,
7. local Environmental Protection Dept., and Water Dept.
8. Consultant (same as at (5)) prepares Technical Report (i.e. tender
documents) and 'Execution Details (i.e. construction drawings and
specifications).
9. Submission to local council for construction permit.
10. Tendering for construction.
11. Construction by the successful contractor, supervised bv specialist unit of
concerned Forest Branch (forest roads officer) and by Ministry of Public
Works engineer(s)
Three patronizing associations officially represent most of the forest logging and wood
industry operators:
*   ASFOR - Association of Romaniani   Foresters - which includes the great majority of the
logging, transport and primary processing operators;
*   APMR - Association of Romaniani Furnituire Producers - which includes the furniture and
other wood industry operators;
*   ROMPAP - Association of Romnanian Pulp and Paper Producers - which includes the pulp
and paper industry operators.
The main objective of these patronizing associations is to represent members' interests to the
official authorities. The main funding of the association activities is ensured by an annual fee
paid by members.
There are about 700 registered Environmental Non-Governmnital Organizations (E NGOs) in
Romania although it appears that less than 400 are active. However, despite their large
number the involvement of NGOs in specifically forestry related issues is lower than in
Western Europe or North America.         Capacity is weak and there appears to be limited
coordination between E NGOs.
The largest and most active E NGO involved mainly in forest related activities is Progresul
Silvic. It has 12 branches all over the country and more than 1200 members. Progresul Silvic
is also co-editing the only national forest magazine "Revista Padurilor" and has played an
important role in the scientific life and the debate on forest sector development.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT            26                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



2.3   KEY SECTORAL ISSUES
2.3.1. Overview
Romania's forests cover 27 percent of the country and include some of the last and largest
tracts of natural and undisturbed old growth forests still remaining in Europe. Some 53
percent of Romanian forests are managed primarily for protection functions rather than for
timber production. Romania has a strong tradition of developing and implementing
biologically sustainable forest management practices. In the year 2000 the export value of
forest products was estimated as US$ 1,026.8 million, equivalent to 10 percent of the value of
all exports. A recent study commissioned by the World Bank (Econiomic Valuationl anld Refornm
of thic Forestny Sector, Roniania, January 1999) indicated that the annual value of all products
and services provided by Romania's forests, including environmental services but excluding
value-added from forest industries, is on the order of US$ 3.1 billion.
Recent sector analysis and stakeholder consultation led to the development of a
comprehensive National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS) to address the urgent strategic
choices currently facing the sector. Development of the NFPS was undertaken over a ten-
month period commencing in early 2000 through a participatory process involving
representatives of many forestry sector stakeholder groups. In addition to defining overall
forestry policy at national level, the NFPS sets out and prioritizes a series of specific strategic
actions to achieve policy goals and provides the basis for the coordinated and sustainable
development of the sector. The Government has recently adopted the NFPS and the
challenge is now to implement the strategic actions it proposes.
2.3.2. Restitution of Forest Lands
Government is under pressure to proceed rapidly with the restitution of forest lands as part
of the broader restitution and democratization process. Under Law 1/2000, requests have
been submitted by different categories of former owners for the restitution of approximately
3 million hectares of forest land. Implementation of the restitution process has recently been
speeded up and it is likely that about two million hectares (approximately one third of
Romanian forests) will be returned to private owners by 2003.
While the restitution of forest lands will ultimately lead to greater democratization,
empowerment, and improved distribution of benefits from forest management to their
owners and to associated rural communities, there are risks associated with the restitution
process. Previous experience in Romania (1991/92) and elsewhere has shown that if the
restitution of forest lands takes place without adequate legal and institutional mechanisms,
and without knowledge or awareness of sustainable management practices by new forest
owners the almost immediate loss of forest cover is likely to result, leading to irreversible
environmental degradation and significant economic losses for the country.
Following the restitution of 353,000 hectares of Romanian forest lands in 1991/92
approximately one-third of the area was clear-felled within three years and many other
restituted areas were harvested at unsustainable rates, leading to an overall loss in
productive capacity. The total economic cost of this event - measured in terms of loss of
watershed protection functions, erosion, related flooding damage, reduced timber
production, and reduced wildlife habitats - has been conservatively estimated to be on the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    27              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



order of US$ 1.5 billion. In anticipation of the much larger-scale restitution of forest lands
which is about to take place, the role of the State will need to change rapidly to reduce the
potentially devastating impacts of restitution on forests, the environment, and on the sector's
long-term productive capacity. At the same time, the ability of new forest owners to
undertake sustainable forest management will be constrained by technical skills, access to
markets, and investment capital.
2.3.3. Evolving Role of t)e National ForestAdminiistrationl
Under the Ministrv of Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF), the Department of Forests
(DoF) [with the subordinated Directorate for Strategy, Policy and Legislation, and the
Directorate for Silvic Regime Inspection (Forest Inspectorate)], is responsible for policy,
legal, regulatory and supervisory functions on all forest lands. Management responsibility,
however, rests with the NFA which currently manages, on behalf of Government, more than
85 percent of Romania's forests. This area will be reduced dramatically after restitution.
Since most of the forests which will be returned to former owners is production forest,
restitution will significantly increase the proportion of non-revenue generating activities
undertaken by the NFA (from the management of watershed protection forests, many of
which are areas rich in forest biodiversity) as a share of its total expenditure. Restitution
will have the added impact of breaking up contiguous blocks of forest administered by
NFA, thereby making management more difficult and costly. Consequently, NFA is
expected to encounter difficulties in financing its public functions - primarily maintaining
and managing the State's protection forests - using its own decreasing revenue generating
activities.
In the year 2000, NFA's revenues were US$ 172.73 million, including an estimated US$ 32
million from non-timber forest products. The profit outturn was equivalent to 9.3 percent
on sales before interest and tax, which compares poorly, for example, with returns of 24
percent and 21 percent for state-owned forest management authorities in Ireland and
Sweden. This apparent inefficiency relates partly to the large number of non- revenue
generating public service functions, including forest protection, which NFA finances from its
own revenues. Because NFA is currently taxed on profit, there is an incentive to increase
expenditure rather than to generate profits. Additionally, there is currently no obligation to
pay the State a rent for the use of the forest resource or to pay dividends to its primary
shareholder (i.e., the State). Under NFA's current accounting system, it is not possible to
quantify and compare the economic and fiscal costs and benefits associated with NFA's
public good and commercial functions in management of State forest resources. To do this is
not easy, as limited harvesting is permitted in forests managed primarily for watershed
protection (See Appendix 6: Protection Forests: Functional Categories and Permissible Felling
Systems in Romania). Consequently, there is a risk that restitution will result in the
inadequate allocation of resources to public good functions and that fiscal benefits from the
management of productive State forests may not be fully captured.
Faced with the loss of large areas of production forests through restitution, NFA is
considering further diversification of its economic activities to include more non-core forest
management activities (some of which might be more effectively undertaken by the private
sector). In the absence of a comprehensive and transparent accounting system, which
separates public good functions from commercial economic costs and benefits, it is
impossible to assess whether cross-subsidies from NFA's existing and new diversified
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT      2.8              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORES15



activities will be adequate for addressing financial shortfalls.  The lack of clarity in
accounting practice allows for allegations of inefficiency.
2.3.4. Timber Pricing Policy
Currently NFA sells timber through competitive sealed bid tenders primarily for standing
timber, and also for a limited amount of timber felled and extracted to roadside. The
average annual floor price for tenders is supervised by the Competition Office (which
answers to the Prime Minister's office) and is set by Government Ordinance. The average
floor price is calculated by taking the total annual costs of the NFA plus an agreed profit
margin, and dividing this cost by the estimated volume of the annual harvest. The floor
price for individual tenders is set by local offices of NFA at a level above or below the
average floor price after taking the estimated value of the wood to be sold (size, species and
quality) into consideration. This method for setting the average annual floor price for timber
does not take into account the market value of the wood or the harvesting costs borne by the
purchaser but does include the cost of non-commercial activities undertaken by the NFA.
The return to the state for the sale of its resources is included (through the provision of the
public services undertaken by NFA and the profit margin) but is not quantifiable.
Consequently, the current timber pricing policy may not capture the market value of the
resource, and obscures State subsidies for public good functions. There is a need to
introduce a floor pricing system, which would reflect both the cost of production as well as
market conditions, while capturing rent for management of state forest resources. The
calculation of floor prices should be revised to incorporate costs over time both better to
capture the value of the resource, but also to provide greater clarity about the extent to
which revenues from the sale of timber finance NFA's provision of public goods functions
such as protected area and watershed catchment management.
2.3.5. Access to Forest Resources
Forest roads are needed to provide access for harvesting and forest management. A low
density of forest roads results in the need to skid (drag) logs longer distances from the point
where they are felled to a road where they can be loaded onto trucks.    From  an
environmental perspective, longer skidding distance results in erosion on arterial skidding
trails. Damage to the forest floor and to standing trees increases in proportion to the
distance which logs need to be dragged. A low forest road density also encourages over-
harvesting in areas close to roads, since longer skidding distances also increase harvesting
costs. Consequently, a sub-optimal density of forest roads results in greater environmental
impacts and lower economic returns from harvesting. Typically, because of the low density
of forest roads in production forests on average, rates of timber harvesting are far below the
annual allowable increment which is possible.
Romania has a network of different types of infrastructure for forest harvesting. These
include: 32,500 km of forest roads; 65 km of forest railroads; 1,450 km of roads used for
harvesting but provided by other sectors, such as for mining and for hydroelectric power
generation; and 7,600 km of public roads in the forests on which wood collection is
permitted. T'he network was mainly constructed during the period 1960-1985. Since 1994,
when the forest roads became the responsibility of the NFA, some 365 km of forest roads
have been constructed, and 294 km rehabilitated. This network of approximately 42,000 km,
provides a density of 6.1 m/ha, of which only 4.7 m/ha are forest roads. As a result of heavy
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT     29               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



rains over the last several years, the existing road network has deteriorated and 7,000 km of
forest roads have become inoperative, thereby further decreasing the degree of accessibility
and reducing the effective road density to around 5.3 m/ha. This road density compares
poorly with other European countries with largely similar topography (e.g., Austria 36
m/ha, Switzerland 40 m/ha, France 26 m/ha, Germany 45 m/ha). The National Forest
Administration (NFA) estimates that only 65 percent of the Romania's production forests are
economically accessible via the existing roads network.
In 2000, the EU funded the upgrading of some forest roads which provided access to villages
under the Social Development Fund (SDF) program. Romania's National Rural
Development Plan, approved by the EU, includes the provision of Special Accession
Program for Rural Development (SAPARD) funding for forest roads on private lands. Even
with this investment, the road density will still be significantly less than the minimum level
recommended by the FAO and by others such as the Forest Research and Management
Institute. More recently, NFA has undertaken feasibility studies for rehabilitation and
upgrading of 600 km and construction of 430 km of new forest roads at an estimated cost of
US$ 42 million. Neither the State nor NFA have the resources for this level of investment.
Road construction and rehabilitation has therefore ceased; harvesting on poorly maintained
roads increases environmental damage and erosion, as do long skidding distances.
2.3.6. Low Productivity in Primary Wood Processing Industries
The timber industry has traditionally focused on supplying markets in the former Soviet
Bloc and in the Middle East. One of the outcomes of this focus has been that the industry
specialized in producing large quantities of low quality products - market share which is
now being met from other sources -- and so these markets have disappeared over time. The
industry has never made the investment needed in new technologies to improve extraction
and processing, and so remains highly inefficient, and unable to deliver product for higher
value markets. There are a number of associated issues, which include the inability of Small
and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to access credit, and problems with respect to the security
of raw material supply. Nonetheless, the valued-added potential of Romanian timber and
timber products is substantial.
Inability of Small antd Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to access credit
The inability of small and medium sized wood harvesting and processing firms to access
loans for capital investment to replace outdated and inefficient equipment relates partly to
how legislation treated moveable assets and inventory as collateral, and partly to lack of
business planning skills and awareness of opportunities to access credit. Recent legislation
(Law No. 99/2001) that allows for greater and more effective use of assets as collateral is a
positive step. However, in view of the scale of investment required, and the current absence
of adequate support to SMEs in identifying and accessing sources of credit, the change in
legislation will have little immediate impact. The US$ 80 million World Bank Rural Finance
Project is expected to provide financing which could be made available for investment in the
forest industry. However, there is an additional need to improve access to information about
the availability of existing and developing opportunities for financing forest industry
investments.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    30              NIINISRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Securioh of raz mnaterial slpply
Earlier, under the Forest Code (Law 26/24 of 1996), the NFA was not allowed to enter into
long-term contracts with processors to guarantee raw material supply. This provision of the
Forest Code was only recently changed, and a Government Ordinance allowing long term
contracts (up to 10 years) was approved by Cabinet in spring 2002. Although there have
been large investments in mills that utilize small wood, some investors have not proceeded
with investment plans because of uncertainties about long-term supply. As restitution
proceeds, a considerable proportion of the production forest will be transferred to the
private sector. This would also allow forest owners associations to enter into long term
supply contracts with small wood processors, which would be of benefit to the forest
owners and will likely create the environment for future investment. Investors are already
interested in setting up joint ventures for Small and Medium size Enterprises (SMEs) with
groups of private forest owners.
Lack of coordination between growing and processing sectors: Responsibility for
supervision of the timber growing (silviculture and forest management) sector rests with the
MAFF, while the Ministry of Industry (Mol) is responsible for supervision of the log
transport anct wood processing sectors. This division of responsibility has resulted in poor
communications and lack of coordination across the forest sector, acting to the detriment of
the development of the sector as a whole. There is a need to bring all of the sectors together
to capitalize on their potential to contribute to the national economy.
2.3.7. Legislationt, Enforcetnent and Governanice
There is relatively little information known about the extent of corruption in the forest
sector. Some estimates have suggested that between 5 and 20 percent of the timber on the
market in Romania had been illegally harvested, but the basis for these estimates was largely
anecdotal.9 In any event, the failure to capture revenues as a result of corruption and illegal
harvesting increases the overall cost of management, and supports rates of forest harvesting
which are not consistent with generally accepted norms of sustainable forest management.
Corruption in the forest sector - the misuse of public power for private profit - should be
distinguished from activities in the forest sector which are illegal (such as timber theft or
illegal harvesting). Corruption can exist without illegality, and illegality can exist without
corruption. Illegal activities can of course be facilitated by corruption, but it is important to
point out that they can also take place irrespective of the prevalence of corruption.
The perception of whether or not corruption is an issue in the forest sector is heavily
influenced by overall perceptions of the prevalence of corruption in Romania. A diagnostic
study of corruption in Romania was carried out in 2000 and reported on the following year
(World Bank, Diagnostic Surveys of Corruption in Romania, March 2001). The study concluded
that corruption is perceived by the public to be widespread. About two-thirds of the
Romanian public believes that "all" or "most" officials are corrupt. Public officials reported
lower perceived levels of corruption, although still high: 44 percent reported that all or most
(9)   See, for example, World Bank (1999). There was no empirical basis for this estimate, and subsequent
reviews of the situation in Romania have discounted it.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NANAGEMENT        31               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



officials are engaged in corruption. While the perception of widespread corruption is clear, it
is also clear that many people believe that corruption has achieved a state of normalcy. Half
of households reported that bribery is part of everyday life, while only one in eleven
reported bribes to be completely unnecessary. Enterprise managers and public officials were
less negative with four tenths and a third, respectively, reporting corruption to be a part of
everydav life.
Although it is important to understand perceptions about the pattern of corruption, it is
equally important to understand how corruption directly impacts people, the business
community, and the public officials themselves. Thirty-eight percent of public officials
reported that they had been offered a gift or money during the previous year. Twenty-eight
percent and 42 percent of enterprises and households, respectively, reported that they either
were made to feel that a bribe was necessary or directly offered bribes or atentie
("attention") to various public officials during the previous 12 months.
The perception of corruption in the forestry sector is no doubt fueled by the position of the
NFA, which has long had control over extensive and valuable forest assets, and has
remained relatively well-financed from its profits. Having said this, virtually no diagnostic
work has been carried out which has adequately characterized problems in the sector.
A number of factors have posed important opportunities for the development of corrupt and
illegal practices in the forestry sector in Romania. Higher prices for conventional household
energy and heating have increased the incentives for the theft of fuelwood. The timber
pricing policy and the auction system (through which NFA sells standing timber through
competitive sealed bid tenders, and also for a limited amount of timber felled and extracted
to roadside) does not take into account the full market value of timber (because floor prices
are set too low and competition in the auction markets may be limited) or the harvesting
costs borne by the purchaser, limiting market entry in some cases and offering greater
potential for collusion where markets are poorly formed. Hedonic pricing studies (cf.
Vincent et al, 1996) have shown the potential for improving the method for determining
starting prices, which would in turn provide stronger incentives for wood-based industries
in Romania to improve their efficiency and become more competitive. Private sector
investment in processing is hindered as well because NFA is not legally able to enter into
long-term contracts with processors to guarantee raw material supply.
Action on corruption in the forestry sector will have to be forward looking. The restitution
of much of the revenue-producing forest lands to private owners will likely have important
impacts on the behavior of both market players and the NFA. Among other things, auction
behavior will likely change, with the proliferation of actors, including the proliferation of
sellers of logging rights. Future action will have to be responsive to various behavioral
changes likely to result from this fundamental change in ownership rights.
In any event, success in addressing administrative failures and state capture in Romania will
require a broad-based program that brings transparency and accountability to political life
and to public administration more generally, rather than to the forestry sector in isolation.
Government has placed a high priority on tackling the problem of corruption by preparing
and adopting its 'National Program for Prevention of Corruption' which seeks to do this.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT      32               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



3.    THE PROPOSED FORESTDEVELOPMENTPROJECT
3.1   PROJECTDEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND OVERVIEW
The objective of the project, as it was Appraised in October 2001, is to maintaini and to
improve environm1entally sustainable management of state and private forests so as to
increase the contributioni to the national and rural economies derivedfrom Romanian forest
resources.
In line with these development objectives, the FDP is expected to assist MAFF to: (a)
establish systems to ensure sustainable management of private forest lands through
building the capacity of the Forest Inspectorate, supporting the development of private
forest owners associations, and establishing a forest information and monitoring system; (b)
mitigate the consequences of restitution on the management of State forest lands by
assisting NFA to maintain, develop and finance its important role in managing protection
forests, and will reduce the environmental impacts and improve the efficiency of managing
State production forests through development of the forest road network; (c) support
increased productivity and competitiveness of forest industries, through establishing and
operating a Forest Sector Business Information Center, (d) build public support for
sustainable forest management by implementing a public awareness program targeting key
stakeholders with emphasis on new forest land owners and their associated communities;
and, (e) manage and coordinate all the inputs through supporting the MAFF's Project
Coordination Team (PCT).
3.2   PROJECT COMPONENTS
The project, as it was Appraised, is comprised of the following five components:
(1)   Establish Systems To Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest Lands;
(2)   Mitigate the Consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest Land;
(3)   Support Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest Industries;
(4)   Building Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management;
(5)   Project Management and Monitoring.
The total cost and Bank financing by component/subcomponent is presented in Table 3.
Table 3: Indicative Costs and Bankfinancing by FDP component/subcomponent
Indicative            Bank    percent of
Costs    percent  Financing    Bank
Component/subcomponent                      (000 $)  of Total  (000 $)  financing
1. Establislh Systems to Ensure Sustainable
Management of Private Forest Lands
la. Forest Inspectorate: Supervisory,
Regulatory and Advisory Capacity            5.2     12.0        4.3      12.8
lb. Support to the Association of Private
Forest Owners                               0.5      1.2        0.3        1.0
lc. Establishment of Community-based
Associations of Local Forest Owners         0.3      0.8        0.3        1.0
ld. Forest Management Information
and Monitoring System                       6.6     15.2        5.2       15.6
ENVIRONMENTAL RFSOURCES MANAGEMENT      33               MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 3: Indicative Costs and Bankfinancing by FDP cornmponent/subcomponent
Indicative    _         Bank     percent of
Costs     percent  Financing     Bank
Component/subcomponent                         (000 $)   of Total    (000 $)   financing
2. Mitigate Conisequienices of Restitution on
Managemient of State Forest Lanids
2a. Reform and Strategic Development of the     1.4      3.2         1.2         3.5
NFA
2b. Rehabilitation and New Construction of     25.1     58.0        18.9        56.6
Forest Roads
3. Suipport Ifncreased Produlctivity and            1.1      2.5         0.4        1.2
Comnpetitiveness of Forest Industries tihrouigih the
Establisihment of a Forest Sector Buisiness
Infornation Center
4. Build Puiblic Suipportfor Sustainable Forest     1.6      3.7         1.3        4.1
Management
5. Project Managemient and Monitoring               1.2      2.8         1.2        3.4
TOTAL                                             43.00                 33.0
3.2.1. Establisih Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest Lands
(Comnponenzt 1)
This component is expected to focus on (a) Strengthienintg thze Department of Forests, with an
emphasis on thte nationwide Forest Inspectorate and support services, within MAFF to provide
extension and advisory services to meet the needs of the new private forest owners, as well
as supervise, regulate and monitor sustainable forest management activities in private and
state forest lands; (b)Developing thze Association of Private Forest Owners (APPR), by providing
core staff, logistic support and basic office needs; and by preparing a five year business
development plan, which will define the profile of new members and a recruitment action
plan, identify and develop the range of services needed by new members, and include a
funding and cash flow analysis to ensure financial sustainability of the national APPR office
and it's expanding network of new members. An essential activity of the APPR will be to
facilitate the establishment of regional and local member associations of forest owners and
helping them to apply for grant funding under EU SAPARD measure 3.5; (c) Supporting thle
establishment of communihj based Associations of Local Forest Owners (ALFOs) through targeted
community development assistance in areas with high levels of poverty where forest lands
will be restituted to individual owners, joint common owners and communal owners (at the
village and commune level) who currently have limited capacity to organize; and (d)
Establishinlg a national forest managentent information and monitoring system needed by the
Forest Inspectorate for supervision and control to ensure sustainable management and
development of the forest sector, by providing updated and integrated access to forest
management plans, cadastre, laws and regulations, forest inventory and biodiversity, data
on the flow of forest products, and statistics on forest industries and trade.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT        34                 NIINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



(a)    Streigtihenin1g thze Departmienit of Forests (DoF)
This subcomponent will give emphasis to the nationwide Forest Inspectorates as well as
support services, within MAFF, to provide extension and advisory services to meet the
needs of the new private forest owners, as well as to supervise, regulate and monitor
sustainable forest management activities in private and state forest lands. This will be
achieved through several activities:
(i) Sharing experience with governments and forest administrations in other relevant
European countries (e.g., Austria, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Slovenia) will be
achieved by means of a study tour to be undertaken at the beginning of the first year of
project implementation in order to assist senior DoF staff to develop a vision for the
future role, function and capacity needs of the DoF. Information obtained and
conclusions drawn from the study tour will provide input to assessment of human
resources and institutional needs undertaken under the following sub-component.
(ii) Assessing the human resource and institutional needs of the DoF, in particular of the
Forest Inspectorates and developing and implementing a staff training program that will
enable DoF to fulfill its role and mandate in regulating and supporting sustainable
management of Romania's forest resources. This assessment will be undertaken in the
first year of project implementation and will entail
(a) review and analysis of DoF staff capacity through structured interviews and
meetings with staff throughout the institution;
(b) identification and agreement with DoF and MAFF on the skills and staffing
required for the DoF to fulfill its role and legal mandate;
(c) identification and assessment of available training courses including distance
learning;
(d) design of course curricula for selected staff, detailing main topics, duration,
location, training methods and targeted staff;
(e) assessment of DoF training capacity and facilities;
(f) identification of training which could be organized within DoF by their own staff;
and,
(g) development of a detailed, phased and costed training program including an
implementation schedule.
Implementation of the training program will be undertaken through provision of:
(a) courses provided by Romanian education institutions for technical training;
(b) commercial training organizations for public awareness, management,
communication and IT skills training; and
(c) training provided by a DoF in-house training facility that will be developed
under the project, initially to cover DoF internal procedures but that will later,
when the new in-house skills are developed, be expanded to include extension
skills, technical and management subjects.
Internal procedures will include, for example, processes and procedures for forest
management plan review and approval, and spot checks of timber trucks, etc.
Inspectorate staff will need to be instructed on how to undertake this work and in the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT      35               MiNSrRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



use of standard check lists, forms and reports. By project completion and thereafter, the
bulk of training should be provided in-house by the DoF training facility.
The scope of the proposed training will in part be defined as an outcome of the proposed
forest sector diagnostic on governance and corruption which is to be independentlv
undertaken with separate financing (see Appendtlix 9: Draft Tenrms of Reference for Diagnlostic
Stdidy of Cornptio inM tihe Forestnl Sector).
(iii) Developing a national standard for sustainable forest management to design and
implement a participatory process to develop national level criteria and indicators for
sustainable forest management. This will enable Romania to:
(a) meet its international obligations under the Lisbon Ministerial Conference;
(b) facilitate monitoring and demonstration of Romania's maintenance of sustainable
forest management; and
(c) implement requirements on standards stipulated by the silvicultural/policy
statement of the National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS). The outputs from
this process will guide development of the Forest Inspectorates operating
procedures, in terms of the parameters to be monitored, measured and analyzed,
and design of the Forest Management Information and Monitoring System.
(iv) Providing the physical resources needed by the DoF's Forest Inspectorate to become
effectively operational, including:
(a) office furniture and equipment, including computers, software, printers, fax
machines etc, for headquarters and for the Inspectorates 16 branch offices and 100
silvic districts;
(b) field equipment, including mensuration and survey equipment needed to enable
staff to undertake necessary supervisory, monitoring and control activities;
(c) vehicles needed to enable staff undertake the necessary field inspections; and
(d) training equipment to support development of the in-house training capacity.
(b)   Developing t1he Association of Private Forest Owners (APPR).
FDP will initially provide technical assistance to the APPR at the national level to prepare a
five year business development plan which will clearly identify:
* the potential membership profile and actions needed to recruit new members;
* the range of services needed by members that will be provided by APPR, and
* a funding and cash flow analysis.
Subject to approval of the business development plan being approved by DoF and the
World Bank, the project will provide the national APPR with the following investments:
(i) Human Resources, including five core professional staff, including: a Legal Expert; two
Forest Management Experts; an Administrator; and, an Extension Services Expert. The
core staff will be funded by the project on a sliding scale so that, by the end of the project
period, staff costs will covered entirely through membership fees. The role of the core
staff will be to:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    36               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



(a) catalyze and assist with the formation of member associations at the local and
regional level;
(b) provide technical guidance to members and member associations including:
(i) assisting members to apply for SAPARD grant funding to support core
financing needs;
(ii) providing awareness raising information and training to members and
potential members to promote sustainable forest management; and
(iii) informing members of technical, policy and legal developments with relevance
for the forest sector;:
(c) provide technical input to APPR publications;
(d) represent APPR at meetings and fora; and
(e) provide administrative assistance.
(ii) Physical Resouirces, including basic office furniture and equipment and vehicles
necessary for the National APPR staff to function efficiently.
(iii) Publications, Brochures and Newsletters, which will be developed for informational
and APPR promotional purposes, targeting members and potential members rather than
wider audiences. All APPR publications will be produced in close coordination with the
public awareness component of the project to ensure complementarity and avoid
duplication.
An essential activity of the APPR will be to facilitate establishment of regional and local
member associations of forest owners. Once established, the National APPR will provide
assistance to member associations in applying for grant funding under the EU SAPARD
measure 3.5. This will be a significant incentive for the expansion of the APPR membership
and will also provide funding to substantially expand the range of extension and
management services at the local level through provision of monies for salaries of
professional staff, the costs associated with establishing and operating new forest owners
associations, and of preparing forest management plans. Without the assistance of the APPR
at the national level or a similar intervention it is unlikely there will significant utilization of
the SAPARD forestry funds locally.
(c)   Supporting thie establishment of communithj based Associations of Local Forest Owners
(ALFOs)
This activity will focus on providing targeted community development assistance in areas
with high levels of poverty where forest lands will be restituted to individual owners, joint
common owners and communal owners (at the village and commune level) that currently
have limited capacity to organize. Community development work to assist new forest
owners to organize and establish ALFOs will be contracted competitively to a consultant or
appropriately qualified community development organization, and will be undertaken
throughout project implementation. The project will provide resources to:
(i) Select target areas in accordance with criteria that will be refined during an inception
phase. Selection criteria will include forest lands where:
(a) significant areas of forest is being restituted to individuals, joint common
ownership and local communes;
(b) higher levels of poverty prevail;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES IANAGEMENT      37               NIINLSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



(c) new forest owners have not already formed ALFOs, and
(d) there is limited access to alternative sources of support for community
development;
(ii) Train community development workers in the purpose and function of ALFOs and
methodologies for their establishment;
(iii) Develop a manual detailing best practice procedures and processes for facilitating
establishment of ALFOs, and
(iv) Facilitate establishment of about 90 ALFOs, having administrative authority for a
total area of approximately 400,000 ha of private forests, during the first two years of
project implementation;
(v) Assess the need for additional community development work to support
development of ALFOs and expand the program to establish about 160 ALFOs, having
administrative responsibility for a total area of approximately 600,000 ha of private forest
land, by year six; and
(vii) Monitor the progress and effectiveness of operation of ALFOs and provide technical
support where necessary.
(d)   Establishing a niatioinalforest mainagement infonnation antd nmonitoring sy/stem? (FMIMS)
This activity will focus on developing better forest management information and resource
monitoring by MAFF and the Forest Inspectorate to establish the capacity to facilitate and
support sustainable development of the forest sector by providing updated and integrated
access to forest management plans, cadastre, laws and regulations, forest inventory and
biodiversity, data on the flow of forest products, and statistics on forest industries and trade.
This will entail investment in hardware, software and training, and technical assistance with
design, establishment and operation of the system. Inputs for the information and
monitoring system will include the existing and comprehensive coverage of forest
management plans, forest inventory and maps that are currently available with the Forest
Management and Research Institute (Institutul de Cercetari si Amenajari Silvice, or ICAS).
The information system would be used to enable MAFF to monitor and manage:
(i) preparation, review and approval of forest management plans - this would entail
storage, retrieval, analysis, consolidation and approval of forest management plans,
forest inventory, cadastre, laws and regulations and other approvals;
(ii) forest operations, including flow of forest products and statistics on forest industry
and trade; and
(iii) DoF operations and administration, which will provide support, and will be
responsible for the approval, supervision and monitoring of an estimated 600,000 new
forest owners, their forest management plans and harvesting operations; and an annual
national timber harvest approaching 17 million cubic meters (approximate standing value
of $268 million at current local prices).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT     38               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Additionally, some types of stored information and data will be made available to users
through dynamic interfaces to be established with the private forest owners associations and
the National Forest Administration. This will allow submission of management plans,
requests for permission to fell etc. and the approvals from the DoF to be transferred
electronically, thereby greatly improving efficiency.
Development of the FMIMS will be initiated in the first year of project implementation and
will be completed in a phased manner over the lifetime of the project and will entail:
(a) In the first year, the following consultants will be recruited: a FMIMS manager (full
time in the first 3 years, part time thereafter), a systems analyst and a database
designer (both part time for 4 months in year 1, then 1 month each year for the
following 3 years). Their function will be to manage and supervise the
implementation of the information management system on behalf of the DoF,
prepare tender documents, evaluate tenders, assist DoF and private forest owners
associations to prepare job descriptions for IT staff, evaluate applications, and
monitor progress of IT contractors.
(b) Recruitment of IT and support staff needed by DoF and APPR to manage and
operate the FMIMS at the regional and central levels.
(c) Appointing a main contractor to provide and install the FMIMS, including the
supervision of provision of hardware and software and design and development of
the custom built software, the APPR and NFA interfaces, the provision of local area
networking capabilities and other communications solutions in a phased
implementation schedule over the project lifetime.
(d) Implementing an IT training program for all relevant staff at three levels: basic
functionality, application functionality and system administration.
(e) Management, maintenance and upgrading of the system on a continuous basis.
Development of the FMIMS will be informed in part by the outcome of the planned
diagnostic of corruption and governance in the forestry sector.
3.2.2. Mitigate the Consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest Land
(Component 2)
This component will provide support for (a) Refortn and Strategic Development of the NFA
through preparing and assisting NFA to implement a strategic plan to develop and finance
its role in managing State forests. This will be achieved through: (i) identifying, quantifying
and separating the costs and benefits of the public good and economic functions of NFA,
and preparing a financial accounting system to ensure that all activities are adequately
resourced, (ii) preparing and assisting with implementation of a plan for reforming and
strengthening the institutional capacity to improve operational and commercial efficiency,
thereby optimizing revenue generation from production forest, while safeguarding the
public interest and ecological services provided by protection and production forest; (iii)
developing a detailed, phased and costed action plan to NFA's non-core activities for either
privatization or development, including provision of management services to the new
private sector; (iv) assisting NFA define its information management system requirements to
support its strategic development and providing an interactive link with the national forest
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT    39              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



management information and monitoring system that the project will establish within the
Department of Forests; (v) establishing an objective and auditable process for determining
reserve pricing for timber auctions; and (vi) providing logistical support in terms of vehicles
and equipment required to manage the forest protected area network, which is being
developed with the assistance of the ongoing Biodiversity Conservation Management
Project; and (b) Rehlabilitatinig and expandintg the forest road network to reduce the
environmental impact, and improve the economic viability of wood harvesting in State
production forests. The investment in rehabilitation of old forest roads and new roads will
have an important positive impact on the economic performance of the NFA and will help
offset the increased costs incurred as a result of the decreasing proportion of production to
protection forests. No road will be built/rehabilitated in the first year of the project, when
the 'Best Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads' will be prepared through an open,
transparent and participatory process and will be included in tender documents/contracts
for international competitive bidding to ensure both competitive pricing and that
environmentally sound construction techniques are utilized.
(a)   Supporting reformi arid strategic development of tire NFA
FDP will support reform of NFA through provision of technical assistance for a needs
assessment and for the development of a plan, in year one, followed by additional support
to implement the recommended course of action. Prior to project implementation, the NFA
will (a) initiate an internal review of operational efficiency and opportunities for cost saving
across the whole spectrum of its activities, identifying and prioritizing areas and activities
where improvements are possible, and (b) research how change has been undertaken in
forest administrations in similar European countries, and identify relevant experience and
lessons learned. The project will support this process with an international study tour for
senior NFA staff to selected European countries (e.g. Austria, Slovenia, Ireland and Czech
Republic) at the beginning of the first year of project implementation. The study tour will be
undertaken in conjunction with the DoF. The review and reform process will be advised by
a consultative committee to be established by NFA and composed of senior technical level
staff from NFA, MAFF, the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, and of Environment and
Waters, the association of private forest owners (APPR), and the association of forest
industries (ASFOR).
The project will finance technical assistance to enable MAFF to assist NFA to:
(i) Review and analyze its operational capacity including: financial performance;
accounting systems; silvicultural operations; public purpose activities; non-core
activities; sales and marketing systems; capacity to provide services to private forest
owners;   current   role/functions  within   the    context   of   present
institutional/legal/policy framework; and, human resource capacity.
(ii) Develop and review different options for NFA's future role and formulate and
agree a plan for its strategic development. This will involve working closely with
MAFF, NFA and other appropriate stakeholders. The process will take account of
NFA's public purpose activities, the planned restitution and Romania's planned
accession to the European Union. NFA staff will participate in the development of
the different options through a series of workshops. Relevant experience from other
forest organizations in Europe that have already undertaken similar reforms will be
taken into account. A broad based financial analysis (including the implications of
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT    40               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



public purpose activities), time frame and schedule of major actions will be produced
for each scenario/option developed. The different options will then be reviewed by
NFA and MAFF with the participation of key stakeholder groups, and the most
appropriate option for strategic and organizational development selected.
(iii) Develop a detailed, phased and costed strategic action plan to enable NFA to
implement the strategic development option chosen under (ii). The plan will identify
key actions, milestones and an implementation schedule and will detail:
(a) NFA's future functions and activities;
(b) The range and cost of NFA's public purpose activities (including
management of protection forests and forest protected areas) and how these
activities could be financed;
(c) Existing activities and assets that should be either developed within NFA or
privatized;
(d) Any necessary changes in legislation and or regulations;
(e) Costed recommendations relating to financial management, operational
efficiency and strategic development, bench marking against similar forest
companies where appropriate; and
(f) A human resource development plan to assist implementation including
providing support to possible transfer of NFA staff to the private sector and
training for remaining staff.
(iv) Develop an objective and auditable model for the determination of reserve prices
for NFA's competitive timber sales. This will include: review of the existing systems;
analysis of the historical prices achieved in comparison with costs and prices
achieved in other European countries; identification of reserve pricing systems
elsewhere that could be relevant to Romania; consultation with the Competition
Committee, the NFA, timber buyers, the processing sector on parameters and
procedures for the development of reserve pricing; development of a reserve pricing
model that is auditable and capable of regular updating to reflect changes in market
prices; and, analysis of the impact of the model on NFA, private owners, inward
investment and the processing industry. The development of a pricing system will be
partly informed by the results of the proposed diagnostic on corruption and
governance in the forest sector.
(v) Develop and cost an information systems strategy that will support the chosen
development option and allow for an interface with the FMIMS being developed for
the DoF. This will entail: review and analysis of the current and planned IT system in
NFA; development of applications, technical and data strategies; identify the
requirements for data transfer between FMIMS and NFA; and, provide a costed and
phased plan for implementation.
Following development of the plan for reform and development of NFA, the project will
support its implementation by:
(i) providing training to NFA staff and technical assistance (to be specified during the TA
in year 1) to support the proposed strategic development;
(ii) providing additional technical assistance (to be detailed during the TA in year 1) to
support the upgrade of the IT system and to assist in the provision of new accounting
software;
(iii) developing the interface between the NFA IT system and the FMIMS; and,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    41              MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



(iv) providing logistical support in terms of computers, field equipment, GIS software
and vehicles to NFA's protected area management function.
(b)    Reliabilitating and expaniding thecforest road network
This component will provide support, on a pilot basis, to reduce potential negative
environmental impacts and to improve the economic viability of wood harvesting in State
forests. The investment in the rehabilitation of existing degraded forest roads and
construction of new forest roads will have a significant and positive environmental impact
by reducing log skidding distances and associated erosion and siltation of water courses,
and by reducing the incentive to over harvest timber from areas adjacent to existing
serviceable roads. Improvements in road construction techniques that will be developed
under the project will establish standards and guidelines for mitigating environmental
impacts that have formerly been associated with road construction and poor siting of new
roads. In addition, improvements in the forest road network will improve the economic and
ecological performance of the NFA and help offset increased costs associated with the
decreasing proportion of production to protection forests.
The project will provide support, on a pilot basis, for implementing a series of subprojects
for roads and railway rehabilitation and for new roads construction. The subprojects which
are to be financed by the project have not been fully identified, and will be identified, in five
separate tranches, during the course of the 6-year project implementation period. Project
costs were determined on the basis of estimated costs for a priority list of forest roads
developed by the National Forest Administration (in accordance with the NFA's forest road
construction and rehabilitation strategy and the NFPS approved by the Government). These
comprised a total of 91 forest road sub-projects (80 km of new roads and 516 km of forest
road and railway rehabilitation) which were initially identified for rehabilitation or
construction through a process of economic, environmental and social screening.
Further screening resulted in the exclusion of 20 of these sub-projects because of the
possibility that they could have increased access to protected areas - an explicit criteria for
excluding a sub-project.
Prefeasibility studies for the remaining 71 roads rehabilitation and construction sub-projects
are underway. Of the proposed 71 road sub-projects, 18 entail construction of new roads
and 53 entail rehabilitation of existing roads and the only operational forest railway in
Romania (Vaser Valley). See Appendix 5: Preliminary list of roads relabilitation and construction
sub-projects and mnaps.
The remaining sub-projects will be identified during project implementation, and will be
subject to economic, environmental, and social screening, following Best Practice Guidelines
which are to be developed during the first year of project implementation (see Section 5.
FDP's Critical Environmental and Social Impacts and Mitigation Measures). The total
length of road to be rehabilitated remains 516 km, and the total length of new roads to be
constructed (which are extensions of existing roads) is 80 km. These roads sub-projects will
be implemented in 5 separate tranches over the life of the project.
As a pilot activity, the roads identified for construction or rehabilitation represent a very
small fraction of the total length of forest roads or associated harvesting and extraction
infrastructure in Romania. Harvesting and extraction infrastructure, at the end of the year
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT       42                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



2000, comprised a total of 41,546 km of roads and 65 km of railway. Roads targeted for new
construction by the project would increase the total road length by less than 2 tenths of one
percent. Infrastructure planned for rehabilitation constitutes 1.2 percent of the total.
In order to ensiure conmpliance wit/i environntiienital safeguards, all road sub-projects will be designed
andt inmplemtented in accordance witih 'Best Practicc Guidelines for Forest Roads', whzichi will be
prepared during the first year of project inmplementation, before road relabilitation or constriction hias
commn1enced. Reference to compliance with Best Practice Guidelines will be included in
technical specifications and tender documents, and compliance will be a contractual
condition of any tendered roads civil works.
For each of the 5 tranches of sub-projects, once pre-feasibility studies for roads sub-projects
have been complete, and sub-project design has been undertaken -- following Best Practice
Guidelines - all road construction and rehabilitation sub-projects which are to be financed
by the project will be screened for their potential environmental impacts. If these are judged
to be significant, Environmental Impact Assessments for individual sub-projects will be
prepared to identify appropriate mitigating steps, such as redesign, determining alternate
routings, or dropping a sub-project altogether.
During the first year of implementation, the project will finance:
(i)    A study tour for approximately five senior NFA staff who will be involved in
supervising the design and siting of forest roads and road contractors, to a country
where similar mountainous forest roads exist (e.g. Austria);
(ii)   Preparation of detailed 'Best Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads';
(iii)  Modification of the design of rehabilitation sub-projects that will be
implemented at the beginning of year 2, in compliance with 'Best Practice Guidelines
for Forest Roads', and the preparation of the technical specifications and tender
documents;
The first tranche of road rehabilitation sub-projects will start in the second year of the
project. All road sub-projects which will be undertaken in the second year of project
implementation will be rehabilitation sub-projects (rather than new construction). The
nature of rehabilitation works will vary in accordance with local needs and may range from
limited interventions, such as resurfacing, to reconstructing seriously eroded sections of
roads, bridges, drains and culverts. In some instances technical specifications have been
prepared, but will be revised in accordance with Best Practice Guidelines that will be
developed in the first project year.
Forest road sub-projects will implemented by contractors selected in accordance with World
Bank guidelines for international competitive bidding. This will improve competition and is
expected to reduce the costs of forest road construction in Romania and bring it into line
with international prices. Contractors will be obliged to conform with the 'Best Practice
Road Guidelines for Forest Roads' and the new environmental standards that they will set.
Creating relatively large contracts (by local standards) will enable contractors to invest in
new machinery and operator training. Joint ventures between international and local
companies will also be encouraged.
The road sub-projects will be located throughout the country but have been grouped, based
on geographical location. Contractors will be permitted to compete for one or more
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        43                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FooD AND FORESTS



contracts, allowing for small local firms to bid for the smaller contracts and larger companies
or consortia bid for a combination of contracts. Each individual sub-project will be
implemented over a period of one to three years. Supervision of the construction of the
roads will be undertaken jointly by NFA, their road consultants, the National Wood Institute
(INL) and the Project Coordination Team's road engineer. Following construction, the NFA
will finance the on going maintenance and up keep of the roads with support of a fee levied
on harvesting contractors.
3.2.3. Support Inicreased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest Industries
(Component 3)
The project will finance the establishment and initial operation of the Forest Business
Information Center (ForsBIC), an independent business development and advisory service,
which will establish linkages and coordination within the forest industry chain (i.e.,
silviculture, harvesting, transport, primary and secondary processing), and provide
assistance to wood and related forest industries, through review and dissemination of
information on new technologies, markets and prices, export and hygiene requirements,
product promotion and branding, opportunities for joint venture partnerships, and the
availability of grants, and credit etc. The Forest Business Information Center will provide a
one stop knowledge / information point dedicated to the forest sector, with the objective of
assisting small and medium enterprises, business interests and other stakeholders to obtain
information concerning sources of finance (such as the World Bank's Rural Finance Project),
product development, technology, business development, taxation and legislation, thereby
supporting the growth and development of the sector. ForSBIC will be a stand-alone, non
profit entity created under a tendered competition during the first year of the FDP. It will
function as an information provider / dissemination unit, providing generic advice, but will
not undertake specific customer commissioned consultancies. During the first five years
ForSBIC will be under the supervision of the MAFF PCT and subject to World Bank audit
and review. Following completion of FDP support, a Board of Directors would regulate
ForSBIC on behalf of its members.
ForSBIC should remain a non-profit organization under its original mandate. Any profits
generated would be reinvested into maintaining and expanding the range and quality of
services provided. The project will finance ForsBIC's costs on a sliding scale over a four year
period, thereafter all costs will be derived from the sale of yearbooks, CD-ROMS,
advertising, membership and research activities. There are also opportunities for
cooperation with other donor organizations such as the EU, GTZ and EBRD. Revenue
projections indicating that the center will be able to cover all costs within a four year period
are based on current market prices for membership of similar organizations, advertising,
magazines and home pages in Romania, and are conservative in comparison to potential.
ForSBIC will provide:
(a) up to date forest and forest business information through yearbooks, CD-ROMs,
a Web Site and quarterly magazines and a help desk, on sources of finance,
products, marketing and sales, business planning, distribution and export;
(b) a venue where knowledge and information concerning the forest sector and
forest related business opportunities can be disseminated and shared among all
domestic and international stakeholders and business interests in Romanian and
other languages as appropriate. The center would make available information on
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT   44              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



best practice, new technologies, market opportunities and trends, product
development, legislation and taxation and investment;
(c) improved availability of information on sources of grant and credit financing and
opportunities for joint venture partnerships for forest sector enterprises;
(d) an information conduit for State, donor and other organizations on forest sector
issues;
(e) opportunities for promotion of forest products and services to Romanian and
international interests.
3.2.4. Buildiig Puiblic Supportfor Sustainable Forest Management (Component 4)
The project will provide resources for preparing and implementing a public awareness
strategy and campaign targeting key stakeholders including the general public, with
particular emphasis on communities living in forested areas; private forest owners; Forest
Inspectorate staff; NFA; Government decision makers, and other influential groups
including Churches and NGOs. Implementation of the program will be supported by an
inter-ministerial committee including the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Education,
Waters and Environmental Protection, Culture, Tourism and Public Administration.
Campaign strategies will include: educating mass media; providing public relations
guidance to Forest Inspectorate staff; developing educational and promotional materials for
use in schools and mass media; organizing local education events; supporting APPR
awareness campaigns at the local level; involvement of environmental NGOs in educational
projects; and support for the PCT to develop their public relations capacity and inform key
decision makers of the status of project implementation. The public awareness campaign
will undertake regular assessments of stakeholder perceptions, which will be used to refine
the implementation of the campaign in line with changing requirements.
The public awareness campaign, which will emphasize the importance of sustainable forest
management, will be implemented through three separate but closely coordinated activities
under the supervision of the PCT. These will include:
(a)   Developnient and supply of public relations products
The project will provide resources for the design and supply all the creative products
needed by the public awareness campaign, including brochures, web-site construction and
maintenance, video documentaries for schools (popular science format), and the general
public (popular TV format), posters, display stands for exhibitions and a traveling forest
information center.
(b)   Public relations support and awareness campaigns
The project will provide resources for:
(i) Media relations development, including establishment of mechanisms to improve and
develop constructive dialog with the mass media; media education; monitoring, analysis
and response to media reporting of forest sector and FDP related issues;
(ii) Provision of short training courses for local staff of the Forest Inspectorate and the
National and local private forest owners associations in media relations, organization of
information and promotional events, and public communications;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT    45              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FooD AND FORESTS



(iii) Delivery of public relations products at the national and regional level, to inform key
decision makers, including Government, the church, private land owners and the general
public about progress in project implementation, the needs and activities and
achievements of the PCT, the Forest Inspectorate, NFA, APPR, and ForsBIC, and will
develop joint educational projects with NGOs, and
(iv) Delivery of Local level awareness campaigns to key stakeholders and the general
public will include seminars for associated and non associated forest owners, and
operation of a traveling forest information center.
(c)   Motnitoring antd strategic direction of thie piublic awareness component
The project will provide resources to assist the PCT with procurement and supervision of
public awareness contracts; provide training to PCT, Forest Inspectorate and APPR staff in
analysis of the impact of the public awareness activities; and will undertake surveys and
analysis to assess public awareness and opinion concerning developments in the sector,
implementation of the FDP, and of the impact of public awareness activities, thereby
providing feedback to guide adjustment of ongoing public awareness interventions as
necessary.
3.2.5. Project Management and Monitoring (Component 5)
Project management will be undertaken by the Project Coordination Team (PCT), which has
already established by MAFF under the Biodiversity Conservation and Management Project.
The PCT, which is responsible for managing the BCMP and also supervised preparation of
the FDP, currently includes a Project Manager, a Financial Management Specialist, a
Procurement Specialist and an Office Assistant. The BCMP is scheduled for completion
during year 2005. At that time, the project manager, financial management specialist and
the assistant would continue to be financed by the FDP until completion of the FDP, and the
procurement specialist would be financed by the FDP until midway through the fourth year
of implementation, by which time FDP procurement activities should have been completed.
In addition to the existing staff, the FDP will finance a roads specialist and a PA consultant
to assist with procurement, management and supervision of the road and public awareness
components throughout the entire period of FDP implementation.
Monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be undertaken by the PCT, and will be
subject to periodic review by the Bank. The PCT will establish project. monitoring and
evaluation procedures acceptable to the Bank during the first six months of implementation,
and will furnish the Bank with biannual project progress reports, together with work
programs inclusive of detailed monitoring indicators for the following six month period. A
mid term review, which will focus on the effectiveness, impact and appropriateness of
project activities with respect to the nature and pace of forest land restitution, will be
undertaken during the third year, and restructuring of project activities would follow if
appropriate. Lessons learned from implementation of project activities will be recorded in a
report prepared by the borrower with the assistance of the PCT.
3.3   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Preparation of the FDP has been undertaken by a Project Preparation Team (PPT) composed
of staff assigned from MAFF, NFA and consultants. Preparation has been coordinated and
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    46              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



supervised by MAFF. Currently the following arrangements for project implementation
(over a six year period) are envisaged
A Project Oversight Committee (POC) consisting of experts from the DoF, MAFF, Ministry
of Finance (MoF), NFA and the NGO community will be established by MAFF.
Representation by the NGO community will be on the basis of a selection process to be
established by E NGOs. The committee will be responsible for providing project oversight
advice and assistance in resolving issues associated with project implementation. The
Secretary of State for Forests in MAFF will be the chairman of the committee. With respect to
implemnentation of the public awareness campaign, inter-sectoral cooperation will be
provided through establishment of a consultative group, composed of representatives at the
technical level from MAFF, and the Ministries of Industry and Commerce; Education;
Waters and Environmental Protection; Tourism; Culture; and Public Administration.
I'roject Maniagement at the Natiotnal Level: MAFF will have overall responsibility for the
project, including procurement, disbursement, maintenance of project accounts and
coordination of implementation.
Impletnentation of the project will be managed on behalf of MAFF by a Project
Coordination Team (PCT), which will consist of a project coordinator, a procurement
specialist, a financial manager, two technical specialists (one for public communications and
one with expertise in forest road construction and maintenance) and an assistant.
Project Management Sharing Between the FDP and the Biodiversity Conservation
Management Project (BCMP): Preparation of the FDP was supervised and coordinated by
the World Bank/GEF financed BCMP Project Coordination Team (PCT), which includes a
project coordinator, financial manager, and a procurement specialist who have been
effectively implementing the BCMP since October 1999. In order to economize on project
costs, build on the knowledge base developed during preparation and implementation of
the BCMP and preparation of the FDP, and ensure staff continuity and linkages between the
BCMP and the FDP, the existing PCT will continue to manage implementation of the FDP
and will be financed by the BCMP until its closihg date (estimated to be March 2005). The
two new technical specialist members of the PCT (roads and communications) will be
financed by the FDP from project effectiveness, and all PCT staff will be financed by the FDP
after the closing date of the BCMP.
3.4   ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF THE FDP
3.4.1. Environmental Benefits:
The project aims to preempt the potential harmful impacts of unsustainable forest
exploitation that has previously occurred in Romania and elsewhere when forest land was
restituted to private owners in the absence of adequate institutional arrangements to ensure
sustainable forest management. Through providing assistance and guidance to new forest
owners, and through supervision and monitoring of approved forest management plans by
the strengthened Forest Inspectorates, unsustainable harvesting will be significantly
reduced. This will decrease the level of degradation of private forests and hence minimize
negative impacts on biodiversity and damage to vulnerable watersheds. The improvement
of the forest road network in production forests will reduce negative environmental impacts
from erosion and poor road design associated with long skidding distances and the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   47               MINhTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOoD AND FORESTS



economic incentive to over-harvest forests close to existing forest roads. At the same time,
the development of Best Practice Guidelines and the incorporation of these standards into
forest road design and technical specifications will ensure that the direct environmental
impacts of forest road construction and rehabilitation will be minimized.
3.4.2. Econiomic Benefits
The sustainable productive capacity of timber and other forest products will be maintained
by prevention of over harvesting due to the increased control and supervision capacity in
the forest sector. Private land owners will benefit from the sustainable management of their
forests in terms of a continuous stream of products rather than short term initial gains
followed by either reduced returns or the potential economic liabilities associated with
degraded land. The expanded and improved forest road network will improve the cost
efficiency of forest harvesting resulting in increased sales revenue for the forest owner and
decreased harvesting and haulage costs for producers. At the same time, no increase in
harvesting is envisaged - benefits come only from reduced harvesting costs resulting from
the improved roads infrastructure.10 In addition, creation of independent private forest
management enterprises will lead to investments in forest industries by allow for
establishment of partnerships with investors that need a guarantee of the long term supply
of raw materials.
Economic returns to the proposed project investment are more fully reported on elsewhere."l
In summary, by adding all the quantifiable benefits of the project and taking the total project
costs it is possible to derive an estimate of the expected financial benefits. Actual benefits in
economic terms are more than expected financial benefits, as there are a number of major
benefits that are not quantifiable (such as improved catchment protection). The Net Present
Value and Internal Rate of Return of project investments over the 17 year period of the loan,
with various assumptions about management intensity (the so-called 'likely' and 'prudent'
scenarios), is presented in Table 4.
Table 4: Net Present Value and Internal Rate of Return of the FDP
NPV@~ 12%
LIS$ X 103|
Likely scenario         69 729        770/o
Prudent scenano         53211     _ _  60%
To test the sensitivity of the various assumptions used in this analysis, the key variables
were altered so as to reduce the overall economic indicators of the project to give an NPV of
(10)   It is important to place harvesting plans into a wider perspective. Romania's current Annual Allowable
Cut (determined on the basis of growth rates and sustainable forest management planning) is 17.0
million m3 but the actual volume harvested over the past number of years has averaged around 14
million m3. The outcome has been that the growing stock has actually increased to some extent.
(I1)   Fortech, Dames & Moore (UK) and Project Management (Ireland). 2001. Initial Economic Analysis of tie
Forestnj Development Project. October.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT         48                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FOREMTS



zero at an interest rate of 12 percent, (the equivalent of an Internal Rate of Return of 12
percent). The results of the sensitivity analysis are presented in Table 5.
Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis Changing variables to reduce the NPV to zero
Assumption        Units     From      Likeiy   Prudent
Restitution Resttution
Scenario  Scenario
Growth saved          m3/ha/yr    1.19      0.17     0.21
Speed of Restitution  % change   100%      14%       17%
Av price oftimber     US $/m3     11.62     1.61     2.03
AII variables        % change    100%      52%       56%
The sensitivity analysis shows that the average growth saved (i.e. the reduction of the loss
that would occur without the project intervention) would have to drop from 1.19
m3/ha/year to 0.17 m3/ha/year for the likely scenario for the NPV to drop to zero with the
cost of capital set at 12 percent. This is unlikely as this assumption, already conservative, is
based on scientific data collected comparing the impacts of the 1991 restitution program.
Similarly the areas restituted would have to fall to just 14 percent of the area assumed in the
analysis. The restitution program assumed here is based on already enacted legislation and
actual claims already submitted. It is extremely unlikely that the restitution program would
be significantly altered at this stage in the process.
The value of the timber growth saved from forests directly affected by the project is
calculated by using prices corrected to the year 2001, achieved by NFA timber sales in
1999/2000. These average prices would have to drop to just US$ 1.61/m3 for the project to
just breakeven. Timber prices are an international commodity and although some fall in the
price is likely due to worldwide recession, a drop of this magnitude is not feasible. If all the
variables are reduced simultaneously then they would need to be reduced to 52 percent of
the original assumption. The likelihood of this occurring is extremely remote. The project is
therefore economically robust.
3.4.3. Social Benefits
New forest owners will benefit from assistance and supervision to ensure their forests are
managed sustainably. This will help sustain the benefits of forest ownership into the future,
and provide for new opportunities for rural development. Protecting the newly restituted
forests will decrease the likelihood of flooding and erosion and resultant damage to
agricultural lands and other rural infrastructure such as roads and bridges. The improved
forest road network on state forest lands will increase access to all forest products including
non timber forest products such as mushrooms, forest fruits and wild honey. Access to other
important rural resources, such as upland pasture, will also be improved. By providing
support to private forest owners' associations, individual owners will benefit from reduced
management costs, and improved marketing opportunities, e.g., through group forest
certification schemes, consolidation of sales, better networking and market information
access. Through supporting the combined efforts of the forest owners associations, the
Forest Inspectorate, and Forest Business Information Center, the project will catalyze growth
in forest industries, leading to increased employment and rural development.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT       49               MIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



The results of a social assessment which was prepared for the FDP are reported on
elsewhere.'2 More recently, a survey of households in forested areas was commissioned by
the World Bank to develop better baseline information about households living in the
vicinity of project areas.'3 The results from this survey are summarized in Section 4.
Baseline Environmental and Social Conditionls.
3.4.4. Institutional Benefits
With respect to MAFF, the project will provide the investments and training needed to
develop the regulatory, supervisory and advisory capacity of the Forest Inspectorate.
Regarding NFA, the project will undertake analysis necessary to guide reorganization to: (a)
ensure that its public functions with respect to management of non-revenue generating
protection forests continue to be adequately accounted and resourced following loss of a
significant proportion of production forests through restitution, and (b) improve its
organizational, operational and commercial efficiency and optimize its contribution to the
national economy of from sustainable management of State production forests. It will also
provide the NFA with an information systems strategy to support its strategic development,
and will develop an objective and audible process for determining optimal and fair reserve
pricing for timber sales. Regarding forest owners associations, the project will build the
capacity of APPR to develop a national network of forest owners associations. The project
will also establish the Forestry Sector Business Information Center, which will provide
services to catalyze the development of forest industries.
(12)   M. Preda. (2001). Social Report (draft), prepared for the Forest Development Project. University of
Bucarest, June.
(13)   Metromedia Transilvania (2002). Ant Assessmernt of Social Isstues associated with the Forestry Sector in
Rornaniia. Report prepared for World Bank and the Forest Development Project. July.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT          50                NMINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



4.    BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS
4.1   INTRODUCTION
The following section presents the environmental and socio-economic context of relevance
to the forest sector and in particular, of relevance to the activities of the FDP. The
institutional context is presented in Sectioni 2.  Policy, Legal, and Institutional Framenzork.
Information has been derived from the following sources:
* Draft Project Appraisal Document, World Bank, Autumn 2001;
* World Bank. 1999. Forest Sector Notc. ECSSD Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development Working Paper No. 18. October.
* Romania Forest Development Program, "Harvesting anrd Transport", Fortech (UK) Ltd.,
Spring 2001;
* Romania Forest Development Program "Iniitial Report oni Environmental Aspects of tile Forest
Road Component", Fortech (UK) Ltd., Spring 2001.
4.2   THE FOREST SECTOR
4.2.1. Introduction
Romania's forests, which cover 27 percent of the country, are internationally important in
that they include some of the last and largest tracts of natural and undisturbed old growth
forests still remaining in Europe. They also constitute an extremely valuable natural
resource for the country.
The following section describes some key attributes of the resource and the production
sector. Particularly pertinent aspects of the sector of relevance to the FDP and this study are:
* Romania's forests are amongst the most productive in Europe in terms of their potential
for sustainable harvest of timber and non-timber products;
* Silviculture techniques and practice in more than 70 percent of Romania's production
forests are based on natural regeneration of native species;
* As a result, Romania's forests support a huge diversity of plant and animal species
including top predators which are extinct or rare in other parts of their former range.
The forest sector is however constrained by a number of issues and could also pose a threat
to the environment if management and institutional structures are not in place or effectively
enforced. The most important aspects of these constraints and threats are:
* The prevalence of existing harvesting and extraction practices is in part due to old
fashioned equipment and the low density of the road network. As a result, forest
management is not economically efficient and has also resulted in some environmental
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     51               NlINSrRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORES1S



damage e.g. long distance skidding of logs which increases damage to forest floor and
contributes to soil erosion and river siltation);
*  A potential conflict exists between profit interests of private logging companies (which
are awarded the right to harvest by NFA on a competitive bidding basis) and the
incremental costs of good harvesting practices. When these cost more, the incentive is to
cut corners. Loggers are not allowed to move on to the next harvest tract until the NFA
has given its clearance based on a review of the first harvested tract. There is a risk that
failure of this management process would lead to unsustainable harvesting;
*  The competitive tender process used to award forest harvest rights is not, in theory,
conducive to the adoption of best environrmental practice because of the incremental
costs involved, i.e. if a harvester's funds are tied up in purchasing roundwood, less
funding is available to adopt improved harvesting practices. The process (together with
the difficulties of securing investment finance) discourages the upgrade of harvesting
equipment (e.g. investments into sky-cables and smaller, more sustainable skidding
vehicles);
*  The siting and design of forest roads does not take account of environmental sensitivities
(e.g. the vast majority of roads are built in valley bottoms with no or a limited buffer
zone between valley bottom streams and roads. Logs are skid significant distances down
slope leading to soil erosion and siltation of water courses); and
*  Poor maintenance of existing forest roads, the erosion of which contributes to
downstream siltation, which in the longer term, could result in as many, if not more
significant impacts on the environment.
4.2.2. Forest Resources
Romania has an estimated 6.4 million hectares of forest covering approximately 27 percent
of its land area. Approximately 30 percent of forests are conifers, including spruce and fir.
The remaining 70 percent are broad leafed and mixed forests containing high value hard
woods including beech and oak. An overview of Romanian forests is given in Table 6 below.
As shown in Table 6 and Figure 3, approximately two thirds of Romania's forests occur in
the Carpathian mountains. More than half of all forests have been effectively and
conservatively managed mainly for non-wood production objectives, including watershed
management, conservation of seed stands, game management and research. More
information about the extent of the national system of protected areas is included in
Appendix 4: Protected Areas of Romania (map, location, area).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    52               MINITRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 6: Overview of Romanian Forests (May 2002)
Description                                                     Value
Total Forest Area                                            6.37 million ha
Forest ownership (une 1998)
* State owned forests                                          84 percent
*  Private forests                                             16 percent
Forest Types
*  Coniferous (especially spruce)                              30 percent
*  Beech                                                       31 percent
*  Oaks                                                        18 percent
* Others                                                      21 percent
National forest stock                                       1,350 million m3
Annual growth                                               4.6 m3/ ha-vear
Annual Allowable CutI4                                  approx. 15 million m3/year
Geographical distribution of forests:
*  Mountains                                                   65 percent
*  Hills                                                       27 percent
* Plains                                                       8 percent
Functional distribution
*  Protection forests (not protected areas)                    53 percent
*  Production forests                                          47 percent
4.2.3. Forest Management
Forests in Romania can be divided into 'Production Forests' and 'Protection Forests'.
Together these are known as the 'Forest Fund'. Production Forests make up 47 percent of the
forested area of Romania and are managed mainly for production purposes.
Protection forests are sub-divided into sub-groups depending on location, site conditions
and management or use and are managed for specific functions. Their full title, in
Romanian, implies 'forests managed        primarily   for watershed    protection' - but not
exclusively. At present, Protection Forests have been classified into five Sub-Groups by
function as follows:
(a) Water Protection;
(b) Site and Soil Protection;
(c) Protection against Climatic and Industrial Threats;
(d) Recreation; and
(e) Scientific Interest and Protection of the Forest Genetic Fund.
Each sub-group is then divided into Functional Categories such as for example, "Forests oni
slopes adjacent to lakes/reservoirs" (Category 1.1b), "Forests at hig1t altitudes wit/l difficult
regeneration conditions" (Category 1.3f). The Sub-groups and Functional Categories are
(14)   Annual Allowable Cut is defined as the amount of timber which can be harvested every year to
maintain an even mix of age classes and a non-declining productive stock.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT            53                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



described in more detail in Appendix 6: Protectiont Forests: Functional Categories and Pernmissible
Fellinig Sy/stemns in Romiania to this report.
Limited timber harvesting is permitted in virtually all the functional categories of Protection
Forests, except Group 5: "Scientific reserves, nature reserves and core areas of national
parks". The felling systems permissible under each sub-group and each functional category
are also described in the Appendix.
'Conservation felling' (for sanitation and/or safety) is permitted in areas prone to erosion
and landslides, whilst "selection or group selection systems" is permitted in other categories
of land sensitive to erosion.
All forests in the 'Forest Fund' are managed under a Forest Management Plan. These plans
are prepared on a compartment basis by Forest Management and Research Institute
(Institutul de Cercetari si Amenajari Silvice, or ICAS)('5) or private forest management
planning companies on behalf of the owner (whether the state or private), approved by the
Department of Forests (now in MAFF), and revised every 10 years. All forests in which
roads are to be rehabilitated or constructed have management plans prepared, which guide
the extent to which timber can be harvested from them.
Restituted forests will inherit their previous management plan when transferred to the
private sector. Private forests of less than 10 ha require a simplified management plan.
Currently ICAS and private forest management planning companies are preparing
management plans for private forest owners with funding from MAFF. However, to date
only around 60,000 ha (out of about 353,000 ha) have had management plans prepared or
under preparation.
4.2.4. Forest Production
Under the communist regime, Romania invested heavily in forest management and
produced some of Europe's best silvicultural technical specialists. Silvicultural practices are
based on natural regeneration of native species such as oak, beech and other native
deciduous tree species in more than 75 percent of Romania's production forests. Continuous
forest cover forms the basis of extraction systems.
Rotation periods between stand harvesting is typically 80+ years (the lesser period being for
poplars and black locust species). Mature trees are then felled either through individual
selection (managed thinning) or by group felling. Clear-felling is uncommon and is limited
by law to a maximum of 3 hectares.
(15)  Until recently ICAS had a monopoly on plan preparation, but this is no longer the case.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT      54               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Harvesting mzietlhod
The prevailing harvesting method is the longwood system. Trees are felled by chainsaw and
then extracted to roadside either as entire stems or long lengths, depending on tree size. Due
to difficult terrain and poor roading infrastructure, pre-bunching in advance of extraction is
a frequent occurrence. Pre-bunching may be required more than once depending on terrain
and accessibility and is undertaken by either horse, ox, tractor plus winch or manually (in
very steep terrain) or a mixture of these.
Figure 3: Distrib1utiont of Forests in Romania
(LEGEND: Green - Forests, Red - National parks, Yellow-Natural Parks)
U C R A I N A
? s--.                            .  C 
WY
"I IL         snbv 
. _   ,    .   . .        _ . ,,~~~AMS  SA
'i ---        -   -    t7 -'
I  *~~~         UL  AR 
C~~~~ ~ '             7:1/ --  --*9 ttx rR*   r-- ;
Extractioinimethzod
Skidding is the principal extraction method and is typically by four-wheel drive (4WD), split
frame skidders of Romanian manufacture. Extraction distances reflect the limited roading
infrastructure and can be in excess of 1 km. The skidders are old and require high
maintenance with a high level of down time. There has been a minimum of new investment
in skidders over the past ten years. Cable systems, typically fixed skyline units, are being
used less and less due to their high costs. Extraction is typically downhill due to tradition of
aligning roads along valley floors.
Transportation methods
Road transport is characterized by trucks of Romanian manufacture, typically with 14 ton
capacity. Road transport of logs direct to the sawmill accounts for around 80 percent, with
rail being used more frequently for the transport of pulpwood.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT   55               MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Roading inffrastncturc
Forest roads are major engineering structures and can absorb a high proportion of all
investments in forest management. Until 1991 forest roads in Romania were built and
maintained by timber harvesting companies using central government funds. In 1992 the
roads were transferred to Romsilva, and subsequently to the NFA. Funds for construction of
new roads during the '90s were scarce.
Forest roads on land managed are maintained by the NFA on behalf of the state. Funds for
road maintenance are obtained by a levying a charge on wood removed by logging
companies following the tender/auction process. This fee is retained by the NFA and used
locally.
Forest roads on restituted forest land continue to belong to the state. If new, roads are built
on private forest land, they belong to the person who pays for them.
The roading infrastructure has an impact on harvesting methods, technologies and practices
and on the environment. The position at the end of year 2000 was:
* 32,468 km forest roads;
* 65 km forest railroads;
* 1,453 km roads other sectors e.g. mining and hydroelectric; and
* 7,625 km public roads in the forests, on which wood collection is allowed.
The total forest road network provides a roading density of 6.1 m/ha, 4.7m/ha being forest
roads. This is well below other European countries with broadly similar topography
(Austria 36 m/ha, Switzerland 40 m/ha, France 26m/ha, Germany 45 m/ha).
The network is unevenly distributed with the mountainous regions having the lowest
density. As a result of heavy rains in the last 3-4 years, accessibility has deteriorated further
with some 7,000 km of forest roads having become inoperative, especially in the
mountainous region. The effective road density has thus decreased to around 5.3 m/ha. The
National Forest Administration (NFA) which is responsible for forest roads, considers that
only 65 percent of the Romanian forests or 4.2 million hectares are accessible at the technical
and economic efficiency level.
In 2000, the EU funded upgrading of some forest roads which provided access to villages
under the Social Development Fund (SDF) program. Romania's National Rural
Development Plan, approved by the EU, includes the provision of SAPARD funding for
forest roads. Even with investment, the roading density will still be significantly less than
the minimum level recommended by the FAO and by the Forest Research and Management
Planning Institute (ICAS).(16)
(16)  World Bank (1993). Romania Forestry Sector Review. FAO/ World Bank Cooperative Program. January.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NANAGEMENT     56              N1INSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Harvest planning, management and operationi
Harvesting is undertaken by MAFF-licensed companies and the sector is dominated by a
large number of private small-scale operators. At the beginning of 2001, there were
approximately 400 logging companies.
Harvest planning is based on 10-year forest management plans. Harvesting contracts are
competitively tendered by the NFA. For tender sales, each lot has a harvesting plan which
specifies the equipment to be used, the extraction routes and other relevant site and
operational parameters. NFA Forest District staff, on a monthly basis, undertake monitoring
against plan although, sites are visited weekly by the Range forester. Forest harvesting and
production has traditionally been concentrated within the winter months when the ground
is frozen.
Harvest volumes
The Annual Allowable Cut (AAC) is based on forest management plans and is approved
annually by the Directorate of Forests (DoF) within the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Forests (MAIT), and subsequently by the Cabinet. The AAC for 2001 is 17.0 million m3 but
the actual volume harvested over the past number of years has averaged approximately 14
million m3.
The National Forest Administration (NFA) currently sells around 10.5 million m3 by tender
and can harvest for its own use 1.0 million m3(17) with around 3 million m3 allocated for
firewood for the rural communities. This position will change with the implementation of
the planned restitution of forests to former private owners.
Healtlh, safehy and training
Although there are defined safety standards and regulations for harvesting, in practice they
are more or less ignored. Safety equipment for chainsaw workers is not worn, workers adopt
unsafe stance in relation to extraction and machines lack adequate safety features. The
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MLSP) has a county-based inspectorate with a
specific unit dealing with wood industry, including harvesting, whose role is to enforce
safety regulations. Unsafe practices do still prevail however.('8)
There is no national or regional training facility for private machine operators or operatives.
The NFA has an in-service training unit but this concentrates on technical and management
personnel. Chainsaw operators must undergo a training course before being allowed to
work in harvesting. There are no such requirements for skidder or cable operators.
(17)   Under the Forest Code 1996 the NFA can harvest for its own use up to 1 million m3. In 2000, the NFA
harvested 0.8 million m3 and for 2001 this figure was significantly reduced to 0.3 million m3.
(18)   These were noted during site visits by the FDP Project Preparation Team in Spring 2001.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         57                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Roadis antd enivironmzenital issuies
The poor roading infrastructure, and its associated long average extraction distance, results
in frequently used skid trails causing excessively deep rutting. This predisposes the site to
erosion, seepage to and sedimentation of water courses. Natural watercourses are used on
occasion as extraction trails.
The newly established Forest Inspectorate (FI) is responsible for ensuring that harvesting
activity does not harm forest vegetation, provoke soil erosion or cause other environmental
damage. In practice however, the Fl is under resourced and unable to fulfill this role. There
is no requirement for harvesting or transport machines to carry anti-pollution kits to contain
fuel and lubricant spillage and prevent seepage to watercourses. Little regard is shown at
landings for the prevention of soil/road erosion and seepage to watercourses, although
landings and roadsides are cleaned after harvesting is complete.
The standards for harvesting damage to natural regeneration and standing trees are adhered
to in practice and are enforced.
With respect to the actual (or potential) impact of forest roads in providing access for illegal
harvesting, there is almost no information, and little can be said about this without further
diagnosis and analysis.
4.2.5. Trends in Resource Use
The forestry sector is a significant contributor to the Romanian economy. In 2000 the export
value of wood and wood products alone was estimated as US$ 1 billion, equivalent to 11
percent of all exports. The non-pecuniary values of forests are considerably larger. A recent
study (Economic Valuation and Reform of tle Forestny Sector, Roniania, January 1999) indicated
that the annual value of all products and services provided by Romania's forest, including
environmental services but excluding value added from forest industries is of the order of
US$ 3.1 billion.(09)
Recent years have however seen a decline in wood production and processing. For example,
processing (excluding furniture) decreased by over 13 percent between 1993 and 1998.(20)
This trend is largely due to constraints on the forest production and processing industry
resulting from the inability of the private sector to invest in improved wood processing
technology. This is further compounded by constraints in marketing resulting from a
combination of a lack of information, banking laws that restrict access to credit, competition
with state enterprises and inefficiencies in the system of wood auctioning that lead to lack of
security of supply of raw materials.
(19)  Fortech (2001). Harvesting and Transport, report prepared for the Forest Development Project. Spring.
(20)   Comisia Nationala Pentru Statistica (1999). Statistical Yearbook 1999.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         58                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Although the annual allowable harvest of wood from Romanian forests in 1999 was 15.5
million m3 for example, wood harvests have reduced from more than 14.8 million m3 in 1996
to around 13.7 million m3 in 1999.(21) Figure 4 presents this trend and the composition of the
harvest by timber type.
Figure 4: Annual Timber Harvesting in Romania, 1994-1999 ('000 mn3)
Note: For 1994- 1996, the AAC was set by Law and for 1997-1999, by Government Decision.
AAC = Annual Allowable Cut
16D)W -
1400D:       -
12WO--                                          -e--  AAC
10D0                                              "   TOHrr
E   8DO  - l    -    -        '    -                      e
4600 t ~~~~ ~~~ ~~ X   X   x   X     =~~  StrangBroEdeaves
4W) 't  -   x              x               >   -4--- Soft Br*dea Ves
1994    1995   1996    1997    199B    1999
Year
Son rce: Fortecli Ltd, Jiue 2007
A similar trend towards reduced production was witnessed in furniture production which
saw a decrease in production of 36 percent between 1997 and 1998 (compared to a 17 percent
decrease for all industries). Half of all furniture producers recorded zero profit or losses in
1998(22). This is despite Romania being amongst the top four largest furniture exporters in
Europe and amongst the top 10 world wide during the 1980s.
4.2.6. Forest Certification
The Romanian president has announced in April 2002 that his nation's forests will begin the
process of forest certification through the Forest Stewardship Council's scheme(23) . A trial
parcel of 32,000 ha was assessed for compliance with the FSC's Principles and Criteria for
Forest Management and in June 2002 got the FSC certificate, enabling Romania to market its
responsible forest management practices to the world market through an internationally
recognized standard.
(21)   Figures provided by Fortech.
(22)   World Bank. (1999). Ibid.
(23)   Press Release of FSC Secretariat, May 19, 2001.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          59                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FooD AND FORESTS



4.2.7. Illegal Harvesting
As summarized in Section 2. Policy, Legal, and Institutioinal Franme-work, there is concern about
a growing "black economy" in forest products based on illegally harvested wood.(24)
Currently, there is limited knowledge about the extent of this trade, and so there is almost
no understanding of how much of a threat it poses, or of the policy, legal, and regulatory
mechanisms which might curtail it. There is a potential for these threats to increase
following land restitution if appropriate policy and institutional reforms have not been
enforced.
Unofficial estimates of the scale of illegally harvested wood is around 5 percent of the legal
harvest, though other estimates place this as high as 20 percent.(25) The NFA has unofficially
estimated that some 150,000 m3 of Romanian timber illegally enters the market each year (or
around 1 percent of the Annual Allowable Cut). The assumption is that this derives from
privately owned productive forests of which there were approximately 353,000 ha in 2000.(26)
4.2.8. Forest Land Ownership
Prior to 1948, the State owned only 28 percent of forest land. Of the remainder, 23 percent
was owned by almost half a million private individuals and 49 percent by more than 9,000
different categories of institution, including local municipalities, the church and public
entities etc. In 1948, all forests were nationalized.(27)
Since the fall of communism however, Law 1/2000 commits the government to
commercializing or privatizing some of the operations of the NFA and restituting forest
lands to former owners. It is expected that this will increase pressure on the forests. As
described in Section 2.3.2.  Restitution of Forest Lands and Box 3, restitution of forest lands
between 1991-1992 resulted in considerable environmental damage and a substantial
reduction forest area.
4.3    ENVIRONMENTAL CONTEXT
4.3.1. Flora and Fauna
The territory of Romania is a meeting point between numerous bio-geographic regions. The
high level of geographic diversity in Romania and the consequence of this location as a
biological meeting point have produced a floral diversity that includes 3,500 species and a
faunal diversity estimated to be more than 30,000 species. Many species that once thrived in
(24)  World Bank (1999). Ibid.
(25)   World Bank (1999). Ibid. There was no empirical basis for this estimate, and subsequent reviews have
discounted it.
(26)  M. Preda (2001). Ibid.
(27)  World Bank (1999). Ibid.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT       60                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



many parts of Europe are no", only found in Romania or found in Romania in large
quantities.(28)
Forest biodiversiht
Since about half of all forests in Romania (13 percent of the whole country), have been
managed for watershed protection rather than production, Romania has the largest areas of
undisturbed forests in Europe.(29) As a result of silvicultural practices based on natural
regeneration, Romanian forests remain host to the full range of European forest biodiversity,
including top predators that are either extinct or rare in other parts of their former range.
Approximately 60 percent of all European brown bears and 40 percent of wolves and lynx
occur in Romania. The presence of ten, of Europe's twelve species of smaller mnustelid
carnivores (including polecats and martins), and all ten of Europe's woodpecker species.
There are no plans to change the management practices which have brought this about.
Although rich in biological resources, Romania's biological resources are coming under
increasing pressure from human activities. Among these, the National Biodiversity Strategy
and Action Plan (1996) highlights several key threats to Romania's natural environment.
These include:
* overgrazing of alpine and forest meadows;
plowing under of contour bunds;
* clear cutting of private forest bunds;
* increasing tourism in highly sensitive mountain ecosystems.
Biodiversity management and conservationi
Romania has shown an active governmental and non-governmental commitment to protect
and enhance Romania's biodiversity. Some 4.8 percent of the country's land area has been
designated into 17 large protected areas (biosphere reserves, national parks and natural
parks -see Figure 3) and 827 reserves and natural monuments. Presently only the Danube
Delta Biosphere Reserve, has a formal conservation management plan and management
plans for another 3 large protected areas are expected to be finalized in 2002. A coordinated
stTategy for the conservation of key habitats is under preparation.
The National Biodiversity Strategy lists 20 protected undisturbed forest areas, but a recent
ICAS study lists 75 such areas. These areas are presented in Appendix 7: List of Undisturbed
Forests In Romnania. Protected forest areas are managed by the NFA.
(28)  Government of Romania (1996). National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plait.
(29)  Government of Romania (1996) Ibid.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT       61                NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



At present the geographical identification of key areas for conservation in Romania is the
subject of three major initiatives.(30)
(1)   CORINE    linportant Biotopes: CORINE  (Coordination of Information on the
Environment) was established in 1985 by the European Council of Ministers. The
CORINE Information System is a database of important biotopes (habitat types)
held on an ARC/Info GIS by the European Topic Center on Nature Conservation
(ETCNC) in Paris. This includes information from Romania.
(2)   NATURA 2000: Romania is responding (in preparation for accession) to the EC
Habitats and Birds Directives (EEC/92/43 on the Conservation? of Nattral Habitats
and of Wildl Faniia annd Flora, and EEC/79/409 on the Conservation of Wild Birds).
These Directives require member states to identify and establish a network of
Special Areas of Conservation (SAC) for habitats, and Special Protected Areas
(SPA) for birds. Together, these protected areas will form part of the
internationally-recognized and 'strictly protected' NATURA 2000 system. In
Romania the site selection process is underway. A preliminary identification
based on Important Bird Areas (IBA) may be available: sixty IBAs in Romania
have been identified by the Romanian Ornithological Society.
(3)   Ecological Network of Romnania: To help establish the Pan-European Ecological
Network (PEEN) for Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) (an essential part of the
Pan-European Biological antd Lantdscape Diversihy Strategy), the European Center for
Nature Conservation is preparing an indicative map of 'ecological networks' in
most of eastern Europe including Romania. Map products may be available in
May 2001, at a scale of 1:2.5 million.
The importance of the various categories of Protection and Production Forests for
biodiversity conservation, and their status vis-ni-vis the existing and future systems of
protected areas, has not been ascertained in detail. However, ICAS is coordinating a study
aiming to identify, describe and map the most important undisturbed forests all over the
country.
4.3.2. Geology and Soils
Soil erosion is a major problem in Romania affecting water bodies and agricultural land.
Erosion is considerable on abut 3.5 million ha of agricultural land and in some counties
(particularly Vrancea and Buzau along the south eastern slopes of the Carpathians). Total
soil loss is estimated at about 126 million metric tons per year, corresponding to an average
of 5.3 tons/ha/year.(31)
(30)   Fortech (2001). Initial Report on Environmental Aspects of tile Forest Road Component, report prepared for
the Forest Development Project. Spring.
(31)   World Bank (1993). Ibid.
ENVIRONMiENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        62                MINISTRY OF AGRIGULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Water, through sheet and gully erosion, is the main erosive process. Natural water erosion,
caused by soft rocks with often unfavorable sedimentation patterns, contrasted relief with
steep slopes and torrential rains has been amplified by forest clearance and unsustainable
agricultural practices.
The most detrimental effect of erosion in Romania is siltation of reservoirs and rivers,
dramatically reducing their capacity (in the Arges catchment for example, up to 84 percent
of dams are affected by siltation).(32) Other impacts of erosion include increased flooding,
landslides, changes to fluvial position and damage to infrastructure.
Certain regions of Romania are especially vulnerable to landsliding and extreme erosion due
to geologic conditions. This potential is well recognized in the counties of Buzau, Cluj,
Prahova and Vrancea where the tilted, marine clay (marl) sedimentary bedrock is highly
prone to slope failure during road construction and when forest cover is removed.
At the forest level, downslope skidding practices, sometimes over distances in excess of
1km, can cause significant localized erosion into valley-bottom streams and culverts.
Erosion is mainly controlled by reforestation and rehabilitation of degraded lands. The
Forestry Sector Review (World Bank, 1993) reported that since 1976, 50,000 ha of forest land
had been reforested to control erosion. The EU's SAPARD program is financing investment
in afforestation on approximately 7,000 ha of under-productive and degraded agricultural
land.
4.4.   SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT
In 1998, the wood production and processing sector (excluding furniture) accounted for
approximately 1.5 percent of total national employment. However, employment in forest
industries has decreased significantly since the 1980s when Romania was among the top
four largest furniture exporters in Europe. In the furniture sector, union sources report that
in 1998 alone, a decline in business caused the loss of 60,000 jobs and NFA laid off 2,000
employees between November 1998 and January 1999.(33) At the beginning of 2001 there
were around 30,000 people employed in forest administration and management whilst in the
woodworking industry there were 67,000 employees, 20,800 in the pulp and paper industry
and 104,000 in the furniture industry.
Key employment statistics are presented in Table 7 below.
(32)  World Bank (1993). Ibid.
(33)  World Bank (1999). Ibid.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT      63              NMINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 7: Employmnent ini Forestry anid Wood Processinig in Romania
Description                    Unit                 1993     1995      1998
Total employed in aUl sectors  '000 persons        10,062    9,493     8,813
Of which employed in:
Silviculture, forestry and hunting '000 persons   77        78        53
percent of total     0.8       0.8       0.6
employed
Wood processing (excl. furniture) '000 persons    80        77        81
percent of total     0.8       0.8       0.8
employed
Total employed in wood sector  '000 persons         165       155       134
percent of total     1.6       1.6       1.5
employed
Sollrce: Romnanian Statistical Yearbook 1999.
Romania's forests however also support a considerable informal sector benefiting from the
collection, use and sale of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFPs). These include the collection
and sale of mushrooms, berries and honey, hunting and recreation and tourism. Local
people are also able to collect brush and branches for heating and cooking.
Forest infrastructure, and in particular forest roads, also provide a vital resource for rural
communities and forest production industries. Forest roads often pass through remote or
isolated villages or link to village and national roads providing a vital artery of transport
and communications to the wider area. Forest roads provide direct access to markets,
services and administrative systems for rural families otherwise isolated.
In early 2002, a structured survey of around 1,000 households in forested areas of Romania
was commissioned by the World Bank to develop baseline information for project
monitoring. The report produced as a result does not constitute part of the original
Environmental Assessment, but its findings are presented here as being relevant to the
objectives of preparing this Environmental Assessment Update.34 The household survey
was complemented by individual semi-structured interviews with key stakeholders (rural
forest owners, urban owners of forests, mayors, managers, employers, and foresters), focus
group interviews with civil servants involved with forest management, and a review and
analysis of official statistics and documents related to the process of forest restitution and its
impact.
The study reported that, in heavily forested areas, unemployment rates are around 13.9
percent, which is twice the national rate (which in 2001 was 6.4 percent). This fact
notwithstanding, unemployment rates are even higher in forest scarce areas - nearly double
the rate in forest abundant areas.
(34)   Metromedia Transilvania (2002). Ibid.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT          64                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Attitudes toward using the forest are heavily influenced by the prevalence of poverty. In
heavilv forested areas, forests are perceived as a long-term capital resource, and households
indicate they would opt for finding sustainable ways of using forests following restitution.
In forest-scarce areas, where the poverty incidence is higher, households think of forests as
secondary resources, unimportant in the economy of the community. In these areas,
households indicate a preference for immediate valorization following restitution, generally
bv cutting trees and selling the wood.
In terms of forest industries, in more densely forested areas, commercial activities are
oriented toward primary wood processing (harvesting and extraction), with much less
emphasis on secondary wood processing or on the gathering, processing and selling of Non-
Timber Forest Products (NTFP). In forest scarce areas, commercial activities are oriented
primarily toward secondary wood processing.
The study reported that, with regard to the NFA, survey respondents indicated that the
main advantage attributed to forest management by the NFA is the technical dimension of
forest maintenance. The perception is that NFA has a well organized structure, and is
staffed with qualified and competent highly specialized staff.  Continuity of forest
management, reforestation activities, and protection and security activities were all noted as
important benefits of maintaining forests under NFA management. The study also noted
that households were also critical of the NFA because of local abuses, "ill-will" toward
private owners, indifference, and the refusal to cooperate with other agents that have
interests related to the forest (private owners, local administration etc).
Social capital defined by the dimension "trust in others" was found on-average not to be
related to patterns of forest ownership. Considering the data more closely, however, the
survey did point out, that trust in NFA staff is associated with forest ownership: forest
owners have less trust than non-forest owners. In contrast, trust in local authorities is greater
amongst forest owners, as compared to non-forest owners.
The study indicated that there is a considerable amount of uncertainty about the roles of the
Forests Inspectorate and NFA with respect to management and supervision.
Despite these various criticisms, a significant number of respondents still reported that state
administration remains the best solution for forest management. The limited capacity of
private owners to undertake scientific forest management was one of the major reservations
held by respondents against private forest management. Although this is the view held
more widely amongst non-forest owners, forest owners are in general in favor of private
forest management.
According to the survey, the most common use of forests is for firewood: 40 percent of
respondents in forested areas stated that they have used the forest for this purpose in the
last year. Less than 20 percent reported using the forest to pick mushrooms, wild berries,
and around 10 percent reported using the forest for grazing and wood products. The
percentage of those that use the forest for other types of activities (for economic benefits
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    65               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



such as fodder or for wood as a raw material, or for game and fishing) is around 5 percent
of the total respondents. Forest owners are heavier users of the forest as an economic
resource than are the non-forest owners. Relatively few people earn their income largely
from NTFPs collected from forests.
Most of those surveyed thought that the process of forest restitution would not influence
relationships among people at the level of the community. Forest restitution has not
provided any clear opportunities for fostering community cohesion, though this could be an
outcome as communities seek to solve, collectively, the problems associated with restitution,
or through the emergence of associative behavior of exploitation and valorization. Survey
data showed that the intensity of household social interaction is not related to whether or
not a household is a forest owner, or to the proportion of private forest owners in a
community.
There was a deep consensus amongst all respondents that the rural poor have easier access
to NTFPs collected from state forests, and that this situation would deteriorate as forests are
restituted. Quantitative data sustain the hypothesis that the forest restitution process
influences negatively the access of the poor to the products of the forest, and in the short and
medium term is foreseeable a worsening of their life conditions.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        66               MlINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



5.     FDP'S     CRITICAL    ENVIRONMENTAL          AND     SOCIAL     IMPACTS     AND
MITIGATION MEASURES
5.1    INTRODUCTION
The FDP is premised on supporting and strengthening the institutional and regulatory
functions which will promote the expansion of sustainable forestry practices. This Section
considers the potential environmental and social impacts which were taken into account
during project preparation, and which will need to be taken into account during project
implementation. It presents steps to enhance the project and to mitigate its impacts to
strengthen FDP's effectiveness. These recommendations are carried forward into Sectionl 7.
Environ,nental Mlanagen11enit an1d Monitoring Plani.
One of the sources of confusion which arose from the original Environmental Assessment
was whether-the EA was intended to address project specific impacts or overall, sectoral and
cumulative impacts of the proposed FDP. In seeking to clarify this point, the following
sections characterize firstly, expected project-specific impacts, and then expand upon the
impacts which are likely at the sectoral level - to the extent that these can be evaluated.35
In order to begin to describe in an overview the potential environmental impacts of the
project, a modified scored checklist36 approach was taken to articulate potential positive and
negative environmental impacts envisaged both with and without the project, in the absence
of any mitigation measures. The results from this exercise are shown in Table 8. The
checklist approach indicated that it was unlikely that there would be any positive
environmental impacts of the 'without project' scenario, and likely considerable negative
environmental impacts. This very much reflected the view of the EA team that project
activities would be quite important for mitigating some of the negative environmental
impacts of the restitution program. In contrast, the overview suggested the potential for a
range of significant positive environmental and social impacts which would be an outcome
of the project, but also suggested that institutional reform activities witlhout thie roads
componienit would have more significant negative environmental impacts than with the roads
component. In addition, the analysis pointed out that negative environmental impacts
associated with the forest roads component would likely be of some concern during the
project period, but could extend beyond the project period as well in the absence of
mitigation measures. The scored checklist approach provides the framework for describing
in greater detail some of the more specific impacts which are envisaged for each project
component.
(35)   There is a diversity of opinion about the appropriateness of more general sectoral or strategic
approaches toward environmental assessment. The idea that Sectoral Environmental Assessments
(SEAs) can produce the insights many have envisaged is under critical review, and there is a growing
consensus that SEA theory and methodology, 'could do with a prolonged spell of general rethinking'
(Dalal Clayton and Sadler, 40).
(36)   The checklist approach is a widely accepted methodology for describing potential environmental
impacts particularly when outcomes from specific project investment activities (such as institutional
development programs) are difficult to define in timers of physical environmental indicators (such as
air quality or soil loss). (See, UN ESCAP, 1985)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT         67                MlINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 8: Simin1ary of Potenitial Impacts Witli andii Withiouit the FDP (exclurdinig initigation steps)
Project Comyponcitts uipid Subcontpopien ts
1. Establish Systeris to Enisuire Sustai,able Managenient of  2. Mfitigate Coiisequtenices of Restituitiont oni  3. Sni;uliort Inicreaised.
Private Forest LaIds                            Mtanagetient of State Forest Lainds        ProductiVity ,,,,,t
lc. Establish-                                                                 Coinpaetitiv'eness of
la. Forest   lb. Support      ment of      ld. Forest                                                      I orcst Indutstries
Inspectorate:  to the Asso-  Community-    Management                                                          thfroutghl thle
Supervisory,    ciation of   based Asso-    Information                             2b. Rehabilitation and  Establish,,,e,nt of a
Regulatory      Private      ciations of       and                                 New Construction of        IForcst Sector
and Advisory   Forest Own-    Local Forest  Monitoring    2a.: Reform and Strategic     Forest Roads             Bitsi,iess      4. Public   5. %ilanageinelit &
Capacity         ers         Owners         System       Development of NFA        (With project only)    Informantion Center  Aw'areniess  Co-ordi,iat ion
With-   With  With- With    With-   With   With-   With   With-   With   t' ilihot  Execution  Exploitation  WVith-   With     With-  WVith  Wvitil-  With
Impact Area                out           out           out            out            out            I oed;    period       period      out                out           olut
Environimienit             -5      11     -5     7      -5      7      -5     11     -1      I       -II        -7          -3          0         0        -5    12      O        O
Biodiversity   -1      2     -1     1      -1      I      -1     2       0      0                 -2           -1         0         0        -1     3 
Erosion    -1      2     -1     1      -1      1      -I      2      0       0        :        -1           -1                          -I     3       U       U
Water Quality    -1      2     -1 I          -1      1      -I     2       0      0                  -1           O1         U                  -l     3      U        U
Air Pollution   -1      2     -1     1      -1      1      -1     2      0       U                  -2          -1          0         0        -1     3 
Environ. Management     -1      3     -1     3      -1      3      -1     3      -1       I                 -1            I         0         0        -l     3      U        U
Social                      -2      2     -2     3      -2      3      -2     4      -1      -2       -          2           4          -2        6        -1     2       0       0
Employment      -1      I     -1     1      -1      1      -1     i      -1      -2                I3            1          -1        3        -l     2      U        O
Access to resources  -1      1      -1     2     -1      2      -1      3      0       0                  -1           3         -I         3        U             U       U
Ecogtotilic                -1       3     -2     1      -2      1      -2     3      -3      3        -          0           3          -3        6        -2     2       0       0
Sustainable revenue   -1      3     -1     1      -1      1      -1      2      -2      2        I         0            3         -2        3        -1     I       U       U
Economic diversification  0       0     -1     0      -1      0      -1      1      -1      1                  0           0          -1        3        -l     I       O 
Itistitutioial              -2      6     -2     3      -2      3      -2     4      -2      6                   0           0          0         0        -2     6       0       0
Strengthening Capacity  I-1      3     -2     3      -2      3      -2      3      -1      3                  U           U          U         U        -1     3       U       O
Empowerment     I-1      3      U      0      U       0      0      1      -1      3                  O            l)                   U        -l     3      U        U
Scored ranking does not take into account mitigation steps which are proposed for inclusion in the project.
Legend:
Likely impacts were evaluated on a scale from -3 to +3, where -3 refers to major negative impacts, and +3 refers to major positive impacts.
See notes on following page
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES IANAGEMIENT                                                    68                                                        M1INISIR or AC.PICUI URI UPI, (IIAND I()RI.SIS



Notes to Table 8: Rationale for Sconrig
For the assessment of the project impacts, two alternatives were considered, (a) without project, or zero
alternative, and (b) with project implementation. For each alternative, the negative or positive impacts were
evaluated, using a scale with minor, medium and major possible impacts. The impacts regarding the forest roads
were divided into two parts, because the construction of forests roads has a different kind of impacts on the
environment than the exploitation does. Environmental Impact mitigation steps were not considered.
Those impacts were analyzed and explanations about the rationale which lead to the figures shown in the Table 8
are given hereafter.
Regarding the first component- the Forest Inspectorate, it is considered that increasing its supervisory, regulatory,
and advisory capacity trough the FDP will have a medium positive impact on biodiversity, erosion, water quality
and air pollution, due to a better supervision of the forest management, especially in the future restituted forests,
which will lead to a major positive impact on environment management. Regarding the employment and the
access to resources, increasing the capacity of the Forest Inspectorate will have a minor positive impact on
employment and on the access to resources, as the capacity and the role of the inspectorate is likely to increase in
the future. The impact on the sustainable revenue will be major, and motivated by the induced sustainable forest
management. Of course, this project component will have a major positive impact on the capacity strengthening
and the empowerment of the Forest Inspectorates. All those impacts will be achieved trough training and
capacity building for staff, extension services and awareness for the public/forest owners, an increased power for
regulation and enforcement of the forest management plans on restituted land.
In the same manner, the support for the association of private forest owners and the community based
associations of local forest owners will positively impact the environment components, because this associative
form will lead to a better forest management, on wider areas, easier to assure the yearly harvesting and to be
supervised by the Forest Inspectorates. The associative form will also assure a better access to resources, a raise of
the owner's awareness, and increased opportunities for local employment and local income generation.
The forest management information and monitoring system component assure the establishment of effective
monitoring systems for forest management and planning, providing the feedback coming from the forest
management, and also the information for its improvement. The forest management and monitoring system will
also reduce the cumulative impacts of forest production activities on biodiversity, erosion, water quality and air
pollution, with a major positive resultant on the overall environment management.
The reform and the strategic development of the NFA will have a minor positive impact on the environment
management, due to the more effective management and administration of the sustainable forestry. This reform is
likely to induce a loss of staff within the NFA, but in the same time it will increase the capacity and the
empowerment of the organization.
The forest roads will improve the accessibility of the production forest areas, where harvesting is undertaken in a
poor environmental and economical way. The present impacts of forest harvesting (without roads), are major and
negative on biodiversity, erosion, water quality and air pollution, because of the long skidding distances induced
by the lack of forest roads. The impacts caused by the skidding operations are affecting the whole forest
environment, and the impacts increase with the skidding distance. This is why it can be said that the exploitation
of the forest roads will impact the environmental components in a minor negative way, but will reduce the major
negative impacts caused by the long skidding distances. It is true that the access to those forested areas will get
easier, but we have to take into account that the forested areas in question are state owned production forest (and
not protection forests or critical ecosystems), where harvesting, with or without roads, should be performed in
order to extract the wood volume specified in the forest management plans.
The construction or rehabilitation process has of course a more negative impact on the environment, but those
impacts will occur for a limited period of time. The possible permanent negative impacts caused by the forest
roads construction will be reduced by following the provisions of the best practices manual for road construction,
which will be developed in the first year of project implementation, when no roads will be built/rehabilitated,
but these impacts are not considered.
The ForSBIC component will have no impact on the environment, but the social and economic impacts will be
major positive, coming from the economic and employment benefits of establishing value-added industries. The
increase in pollution resulting from the development of wood process industries will be counterbalanced by the
promotion of the clean technology processes and techniques, the upgrade of old, inefficient and polluting
equipment and by the promotion of the environmental management systems.
The public awareness component will have an overall major positive impact, trough the increased understanding
and implementation of the sustainable forest management and by the increased acceptance of local people to
government departments.
ENVIRONN1ENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        69                     MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



5.2.  ESTABLISH SYSTEMS TO ENSURE SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF PRIVATE FOREST
LANDS (COMPONENT 1)
The first component of the project proposes to finance the strengthening of the Department
of Forests within the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, with particular emphasis on
strengthening the capacity of the Forest Inspectorates; to finance measures to develop the
Association of Private Forest Owners and to establish community-based Associations of
Local Forest Owners, and to establish a national Forest Management Information and
Monitoring System.
5.2.1. Likely Environm,ental Impacts
No negative environmental impacts of this component are envisaged, and significant
positive environmental impacts are anticipated.
A larger question which has been raised is whether or not the investments proposed go far
enough. Will, for example, the elements of capacity building incorporated into the project
provide sufficient leverage for the Forest Inspectorates adequately to perform their tasks?
Do they have enough independence to do so? Is the overall policy and legal framework
adequate for supporting the institutional reforms proposed by the project? Is there the
political will to tackle issues of governance which could undermine the longer term process
of reform? These are difficult questions, reflect largely sectoral concerns, and extend far
beyond the normal scope of an EA, which, after all is expected more fully to address the
more immediate environmental impacts of proposed investments.
Romania, like many other countries, faces budget constraints and a need to limit the size of
its civil service. In the face of these circumstances, the project is supporting the
establishment, at some financial cost, of the newly constituted Forest Inspectorate. Resources
to fund capacity building and institutional development of the Forest Inspectorates would
not be forthcoming in the absence of the FDP. Once performance of the Inspectorates can be
properly evaluated, as a result of this support, the potential for subsequent commitments can
be assessed, and this should provide the framework for future action.
The body of forest legislation in Romania is also evolving, in response to many of the
changes which have accompanied the political and economic transition over the last 10 years.
Even with the best legal and institutional framework for forest management in Romania,
experience in many countries indicates that without the support of local communities and
relevant stakeholders, enforcement is not effective. The project seeks, through a combination
of measures, to build ownership for sustainable forest management, facilitating effective
enforcement, and progress is to be monitored during implementation.
Other questions have been raised about the likely impact of corruption on the sector as a
whole, as well as on project implementation in particular. As earlier sections of this report
have noted, there is relatively little information known about the extent of corruption in the
forest sector. Some estimates have suggested that between 5 and 20 percent of the timber on
the market in Romania had been illegally harvested, but the basis for this estimate was
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT  70               NIINISRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



largely anecdotal.37 The failure, however, to capture revenues as a result of corruption and
illegal harvesting increases the overall cost of management, and supports rates of forest
harvesting which are not consistent with generally accepted norms of sustainable forest
management. Arguably, there is scope for developing a far better understanding of the
nature and dimension of problems of forest governance in Romania.
Success in addressing administrative failures and state capture in Romania will require a
broad-based program that brings transparency and accountability to political life and to
public administration more generally, rather than to the forestry sector in isolation.
Government has placed a high priority on tackling the problem of corruption by preparing
and adopting its 'National Program for Prevention of Corruption' which seeks to do this.
Indeed, the project is being implemented within the framework of implementation of
Government's overall anti-corruption strategy.
5.2.2. Mitigationi Measures
Mitigation measures are designed to address overall sectoral concerns, rather than specific
impacts which are likely as a result of the project, which, as we have indicated, are expected
to be nil. Within this framework, the project was designed to assist in addressing the issues
of legislation, enforcement, and governance. The proposed project is partly designed to build
the capacity of the MAFF to enforce the forest code and to provide extension and advisory
services, with particular emphasis on newly restituted forest lands where the risks of illegal
and unsustainable practices are greatest. Much illegal harvesting is reportedly for fuelwood
consumption, and community involvement in developing sustainable management plans is
crucial for addressing this issue, as is public awareness more broadly. The project will also
assist new forest owners, at the regional and community levels, to form and establish forest
owners associations in order to consolidate private forest holdings into economically viable
management units that can be managed in accordance with the existing forest management
planning system.
Additionally, Government support for the establishment of independent certification of
forest products will provide additional incentives to ensure that forest management will be
environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. Certification also represents
European best practice, and this operation is one of the first in Romania to support this. With
support from the GEF Biodiversity Conservation project, around 32,000 ha of forest has been
certified by Woodmark (which has been accredited by the Forest Stewardship Council to
certify forest management enterprises that comply with the FSC Principles and Criteria for
Forest Stewardship). Government has targeted over a million ha for eventual certification. A
commitment to compliance with FSC standards is an indication of Government's interest in
seeing that production forests are sustainably and transparently managed. FSC standards
also include moves to account for the chain-of-custody, which should also begin to address
some of the problems of the marketing of illegally harvested timber.
(37)  See, for example, World Bank (1999). There was no empirical basis for this estimate and subsequent
reviews have discounted it.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  71                  MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Steps are also underway to find ways of certifying production from private forest owners,
through the forest owners association network. The project will provide support for these
types of initiatives to enable private forest owners to maximize returns to forest
management.
The proposed FDP tackles the problem of governance in the sector in a number of important
respects. Firstly, the strengthening of the Forest Inspectorates to improve their capacity to
enforce forest legislation is a key objective of this component of the project. Indeed, the
Forest Inspectorate has primary responsibility for control, monitoring, and forest law
enforcement in both state and private forests. The Forests Inspectorates (under the MAFF)
are financially independent of the autonomous National Forest Administration and has no
reporting or financial relationship to the NFA.38 Secondly, the project seeks to vastly increase
the availability of information about forest harvesting and management by establishing a
national forest management information and monitoring system for the Department of
Forests, greatly increasing its capacity for planning and monitoring. Finally, the public
awareness component is very much design to improve local governance by making owners
more aware of their rights and responsibilities and the importance of sustainable forest
management.
These actions will seek to engage wider civil society groups in monitoring performance of
the Forest Inspectorates and of the Department of Forests in seeking to enforce the legal
framework.
An additional mitigation measure which is expected to be implemented seeks to develop
better information about the nature and extent of corruption in the forestry sector. A
diagnostic study, which follows on the results of the overall national diagnostic of
corruption, is to be carried out once independent financing and implementing mechanisms
are mobilized. Draft Terms of Reference for this study are included as Appenidix 9: Draft
Terms of Referenice for Diagnostic Study of Corruption in thze Forestny Sector to this EA Update. In
order to maintain independence, the Diagnostic will be carried out by an independent
institution with financing which is not related to the FDP.
The Diagnostic Study will describe the nature of corruption in the sector and will propose a
number of initiatives to reduce, control, or otherwise to mitigate the impacts of corruption on
sectoral performance. Until this study is completed, it is difficult to say which specific
additional steps the project should support. Approximately 5 percent of the proposed loan
comprises physical and price contingencies which are to be subsequently allocated. Once the
(38)   The Forests lnspectorate, which reports to the Minister of Agriculture, Food, and Forests is financially
independent of the autonomous National Forest Administrabon and has no reporting or financial
relationship to the NFA. The NFA is a government-owned institution which has responsibility for all
production and protection forests. It also reports to the Minister of Agriculture, Food, and Forests. The
structure of these institutions with responsibility for forest management in Romania is strikingly similar
to the structure of forest management institutions across Europe. What is far more important, however,
than this institutional structure is the ability of both institutions to deliver on their mandates. The project
proposes to support a number of activities for strengthening the capacity of the Forest Inspectorate to do
so.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT       72                    MINITRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Diagnostic Study has been completed, around half of these resources will be allocated
specifically to implement priority recommendations of the Diagnostic.
An important institutional mechanism for ensuring the project is performing to an adequate
standard with respect to this component in particular is the Project Oversight Committee.
The Project Oversight Committee will consist of experts from the Department of Forests,
MAFF, the Ministry of Finance, NFA, and the NGO community, and will be advised by
various consultative groups which are to be established. The Committee will be responsible
for providing project oversight advice and assistance in resolving issues associated with
project implementation.  Representation of the NGO community on the Oversight
Committee has been welcomed by Government, but the selection of a representative remains
the responsibility of the NGO community, which has, to-date, been unable to identify a
suitable representative.
5.3   MITIGATE THE CONSEQUENCES OF RESTITUTION ON MANAGEMENT OF STATE FOREST
LAND (COMPONENT 2)
The second project component, which seeks to mitigate the impacts of restitution on State
Forest Lands, will provide support for reform and strategic development of the National
Forest Administration, and for rehabilitation and construction of the forest roads network
(including a key stretch of forest railway).
The reform process is geared toward assisting NFA to change in response to the wider
changes which are already underway, particularly with respect to the restitution of forest
lands. They are geared toward improving NFA's efficiency and financial viability on
remaining state forest lands which will be under its control. The project will provide
resources to assist NFA in developing and implementing a strategic plan to strengthen its
role in managing remaining State forests. Inputs to the strategic plan will identify, quantify
and separate the costs and benefits of the public good from the economic functions of NFA,
and will develop a financial accounting system to ensure that all activities are adequately
described and resourced. The strategic plan will focus on reforming and strengthening the
NFA's institutional capacity to improve its operational and commercial efficiency, and
optimizing revenue generation from production forest, while safeguarding the public
interest and ecological services provided by protection and production forest. The plan is
also expected to describe actions related to NFA's non-core activities (viz either privatization
or development). The reserve pricing system will be reviewed and revised to establish an
objective and auditable process for determining reserve pricing for timber auctions.
The project will also assist NFA in defining its information management system
requirements to support its strategic development and will provide an interactive link with
the national forest management information and monitoring system that the project will
establish within the Department of Forests.
Finally, the project is expected to provide logistical support in terms of vehicles and
equipment required to manage the forest protected area network, which is being developed
with the assistance of the ongoing Biodiversity Conservation Management Project.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  73               NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



In conjunction with the overall NFA reform process, the project will also finance, on a pilot
scale, rehabilitation and expansion of the forest road network (including the rehabilitation of
the only forest railwav operating in Romania), by implementing a series of forest roads sub-
projects, with the objective of reducing the negative environmental impacts of harvesting,
against forest management plan standards, and to improve the economic viability of wood
harvesting from State production forests.
The two project subcomponents are seen to be integrated actions, i.e. institutional reform by
itself is unlikely to be financially viable in the absence of investment in improving the
economic efficiency of timber harvesting in NFA's production forests. Investments in roads
rehabilitation and construction makes little sense if NFA fails to undergo badly needed
reforms in its strategic approach and outlook, in its overall approach to financial
management, and in its way of pricing timber through the auction system.
5.3.1. Likely Entvirotninental Impacts
Strategic planning anzd refornm of the NFA
No negative environmental impacts of this component are envisaged, and some modest
positive environmental impacts are anticipated.
The nature of the institutional reforms proposed is largely 'environment neutral,' that is, the
objective of reform is largely for efficiency reasons and to improve overall public sector
management. A better environmental regulatory framework is, however, anticipated as a
result of the project, and this should yield some gains in overall environmental management.
Significantly, environmental impacts of this component are expected to be far more negative
if the roads component is not included in the project. In other words, the institutional
reforms which are envisaged are unlikely to be sustained if a framework for improved and
environmentally sensible roads management is not developed, tested and introduced.
Forest roads relhabilitation annd expansion
In terms of investment by the World Bank, forest roads rehabilitation and expansion is a
major element of this component of the FDP, as well as the largest single subcomponent of
the FDP overall. Bank 6-year financing for this component is expected to total $18.9 million,
or 44 percent of total project costs, averaging just over $3 million per year. The balance of the
resources required for roads rehabilitation and construction are to be financed by
Government.39
(39)   Despite the fact that the subcomponent accounts for a relatively larger share of total project costs, the
scale of the subcomponent is relatively small, both in terms of its annual cost viz. NFAs gross revenues
($140 million in 1997) as well as in terms of its actual impact on the overall roads network (increasing the
total forest road length by less than 2 tenths of one percent and rehabilitating only 1.2 percent of the total
roads network).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT      74                   NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Forest roads rehabilitation and expansion is also the element of the FDP with the highest
potential for direct negative environmental impacts (e.g., construction, maintenance and
usage). A separate study of the Forest Roading sub-component of the FDP in the Romanian
context was carried out by during project preparation ['Initial Report o01 Environmiental Aspects
of Forest Roads Componienit' prepared by Fortech, Dames and Moore, and Project Management
(Ireland), March 2000.] This report highlighted a number of issues regarding the Forest
Roading Sub-Component and brought about changes in the structure and implementation
schedule of the FDP during Appraisal. Among other things, the report recommended the
development of an environmental screening procedure for managing the potential
environmental impacts of the Forest Roading Sub-Component. The Fortech et al report was
appended as an Annex to the original Environmental Assessment. The March 2001 NGO
Consultation on the Environmental Assessment recommended that the findings and
recommendations of this report should be fully incorporated into this Update.
MAFF, in turn, requested that the process for carrying out environmental screening and
assessment of individual roads sub-projects should be prepared as a key environmental
management output of the FDP EA process.
As it was originally conceived, the forest road sub-component was to provide:
'...the physical infrastructure necessary for economic and environmentally sound
access to wood harvesting through construction of forest roads, to the required
density and in accordance with best environmental practice, in existing production
forest and facilitating competitive bidding and pricing of forest road construction.'40
Internal Bank reviews of the original project concept emphasized the importance of the forest
conservation and sustainable management focus of the project, including:
'...that forest road construction, and planning for increased density of the forest road
network, will only take place in existing areas of production forest with the objective
of reducing the negative environmental impacts, as well as the economic costs of
harvesting operations'.41
Also of relevance to the roads sub-component, the review meeting highlighted the
importance of capacity building in all key public and private sector organizations.
The roads component, as it has been conceived, is comprised of a series of sub-projects,
which are to be implemented in 5 annual tranches. Each tranche will be geographically
clustered. A partial listing of sub-projects has tentatively been identified, based on a listing
provided by Government of the roads in need of investment, which were primarily roads
badly damaged by recent floods. Identification of each of the 5 tranches will only be
confirmed during the course of project implementation. The first tranche, for example, will
be selected from this listing, but will only be confirmed mid-way through the first year of
(40)  World Bank (1999a). Romania Forest Development Project. Project Concept Document. December.
(41)  Minutes of the Concept Review meeting, December 1999.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsoURCES NIANAGEMENT  75                MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



project implementation. Actual civil works on any roads sub-project will not be initiated
until the second year of project implementation. The 5 tranches will be undertaken in the
second through sixth project years.
The listing of roads sub-projects is expected to change during the course of project
implementation (indeed, it has already changed considerably from the original listing of
roads which were thought to be in need of investment). Sub-projects will be added to the
list, and removed from it. This is the nature of an investment operation which seeks to
finance individual sub-projects, and then to subject them to screening and evaluation for
their likely economic benefits and environmental impacts.
The partial listing of road rehabilitation and construction sub-projects which have been
identified, screened, and rescreened for their potential environmental impacts, and their
locations, is indicated in Appendix 5: Prelimninaril list of roads reliabilitationl and conistnrctiont sub-
projects anpd niaps. This initial list comprises a total of 430 km of forest infrastructure (roads
and railways) which are to be rehabilitated, and 56 km    of new   roads which are to be
constructed.42 Funds are provided in the project to finance an additional 24 km of roads
construction sub-projects, which have yet to be identified, and 88 km of roads rehabilitation
sub-projects which have yet to be identified. This initial list of roads will subsequently
change as new information becomes available during project implementation as a result of
more intensive review, but on balance, it is anticipated that the project will finance around 80
km of new roads construction and 516 km of roads and railway infrastructure rehabilitation.
Roads rehabilitation sub-projects are expected to vary in length from around 1 to 20 km.
New road construction sub-projects, which entirely comprise the extension of existing roads
(i.e. spur extensions) are expected to vary in length from around 0.5 to 6.5 km.
As a pilot activity, the roads sub-projects planned for construction or rehabilitation represent
a very small fraction of the total length of forest roads or associated harvesting and
extraction infrastructure in Romania. Harvesting and extraction infrastructure, at the end of
the year 2000, comprised a total of 41,546 km of roads and 65 km of railway. Roads targeted
for new construction by the project would increase the total road length by less than 2 tenths
of one percent. Infrastructure planned for rehabilitation constitutes 1.2 percent of the total.
By any standard, the fact that the project is investing in such a small percentage of the overall
total (and indeed, in the face of the enormous needs for construction and rehabilitation)
demonstrates that it constitutes a pilot operation. Because of this, aggregate impacts of the
roads project are expected to be relatively minor.
Roads which have been tentatively identified all fall within production forests. All
production forests in the 'Forest Fund' are managed under Forest Management Plans. All of
(42)   During project preparation and in conjunction with the original Enviromnental Assessment, 91 roads
sub-projects were initially identified for project investment and were screened for their potential
environmental impacts (See Appendix 10: Results from PreliminanJ Screening of Roads Reitabilitation Sub-
projects for their Environmental and Social Impacts). These roads were rescreened, and 20 of them were
dropped because of the risk that they might increase access to protected areas.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT      76                    MINISTRY oF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



these plans are prepared on a compartment basis by ICAS on behalf of the owner (i.e. the
NFA), approved by the Directorate of Forests (now in MAFF), and revised every 10 years.
[Restituted forests inherit their previous management plan when transferred to the private
sector. Private forests of less than 10 ha require a simplified management plan. Currently
ICAS is preparing management plans for private forest owners with funding from MAFF.
However, by January 2001, only 3,000 ha (out of 350,000 ha) have had management plans
prepared.]
Generally speaking, the primary environmental impacts related to the construction of forest
roads include:
* Habitat loss/fragmentation (associated with the footprint of the road);
* Alteration of drainage/natural hydrologic regime;
* Stream erosion;
* Soil erosion and downstream sedimentation;
* Slope instability and landslides; and
* Resultant secondary impacts (e.g., increased access to formerly remote areas, increased
resource extraction and resultant impacts to biodiversity and physical environment,
economic impacts such as employment - both temporary (road construction impacts)
and permanent (ongoing maintenance and resource extraction impacts)).
Potential indirect impacts could include increased illegal harvesting, but only if enforcement
and regulatory mechanisms fail.
The potential magnitude of these issues is reduced in the Romanian forest roads context for
the following reasons:
* All roads are located in state land in Forest Fund production forests;
* Forest roads are planned, designed and permitted in the context of a management system
based on a long tradition of silvicultural practices implemented through 10-year forest
management plans, and which incorporate watershed and biodiversity protection
functions and other environmental aspects. However, there are undoubtedly locations
and situations in protection forests where differences of opinion in terms of preservation
of biodiversity or other environmental functions versus forestry production may arise;
* The Romanian GEF Biodiversity Conservation Management Project is integrated with the
NFA forest program; and
* The silvicultural and management programs integrate traditional forest harvest practices
of local communities including wood for fencing and building repair, fire wood(43), and
non-timber forest products (NTFPs, e.g., medicinal plants, mushrooms, nuts, honey). In
addition, in the Carpathians, forest roads are also used by the villagers as routes for
accessing mountain pastures during summer. As a result, the forest roads are of great
(43)  Non-commercial wood from thinning and sanitary clearing is either made available to local villagers or,
in mnany instances, villagers carry out the thinning and collection in coordination with NFA district
offices.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     77                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



value to the local population and, based on the public consultation work carried out at
multiple stages during the preparation of the FDP, have local public support.
In addition to the above, there are four major factors regarding the forest roads included in
the FDP which serve to further limit the potential for significant environmental and social
impacts:
*  The National Wood Institute (INL) pre-screened prospective roads to exclude those with
more complex or significant potential environmental issues;
*   In total length terms (km), 87 percent of the road sub-projects to be included in the FDP
are rehabilitation works for existing roads; and
*  The new roads (13 percent of the total) are spur extensions of existing roads as opposed
to new roads into previously remote areas (and these areas are Forest Fund lands which
have been under management, and which are not isolated, undisturbed forests).
*  Taken together, roads targeted for construction and rehabilitation account for a very
small percentage of the total forest road network - less than 1.5 percent of the total.
*   Roads rehabilitation, by itself, is intended to reduce negative environmental impacts
from erosion.
Roads construction and rehabilitation financed by the project will have virtually no impact
on levels of harvesting because the Annual Allowable Cut has already been established as a
result of the forest management planning process and provides the basis for auctioning
timber resources in individual blocks. The primary impact will be to reduce the costs of
harvesting and extraction, rather than to increase the rate of harvesting, ensuring NFA will
receive higher value for standing timber in auction markets.
Similarly, roads sub-projects are not expected to have any impact on protected areas and will
neither pass through any protected area nor will they increase access to protected areas.
With respect to developing forest roads, current practice in Romania focuses on five phases:
Planning; Design; Construction; Use and Maintenance; and Closure. We consider current
practice in Romania for these five phases, and potential implications for the environment.44
Planning
Forest road planning procedures normally include consideration of need, density, location,
and impacts.
The need for roads is dependent on the management prescription for an area. Since some
form of felling is permitted in almost every category of Protection Forest, under this
(44)   NFA has indicated that the biggest problems in this phased approach are particularly with respect to
planning and design (because of the need to incorporate design standards to accommodate floods and
landslides) and with respect to use and maintenance considers that some of the most important
problems affecting existing forest roads are: Planning and design: flood damage; landslides Use and
maintenance: low maintenance inputs; use by heavy vehicles
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT     78                    MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



management approach road access will eventually be likely in most forest compartment in
Romania, for timber extraction (provided it is economically viable and timber production is
an objective of management). This is not an issue for the FDP because the roads targeted for
rehabilitation/construction all are in production forests. In any event, planning of the road
network should be an integral part of the overall forest management planning process.
In addition, the road network should reflect the harvesting technology (and vice versa).
Romania has well-established practices for wood extraction, based on ground skidding by
horse and tractor and on skylines. A common feature is that most extraction is downhill from
the point of felling to roads, which are almost always in valley-bottoms. This technology has
a high impact on riparian values due to direct destruction of valley-bottom habitat for roads,
sediment production from skid trails, and sediment inputs to streams from slope erosion.
Lower-impact harvesting and extraction techniques exist, ranging from the very cheap and
simple to a higher level of investment and technology. These are likely relevant to Romanian
conditions, under some circumstances. Extensive guidance on Codes of Practice for forest
harvesting and extraction can be found in FAO (1996a, 1996b).
The precise location of roads in the landscape is a critical factor affecting their environmental
impacts and construction and maintenance costs. Forest road locations typically have been
be determined in Romania on the basis of the cheapest route, topographic maps at 1:5,000
orl:10,000 (available for the whole of Romania), and field inspection.
Current practice shows that the majority of main and primary forest roads are constructed in
valley bottoms, rather than in mid-slope locations, and (b) that some primary and secondary
roads have been built across steep, marginally stable slopes. Since most valleys are V-shaped,
this (a) results in high liability to flood damage, and very high impacts on both watercourses
and riparian values, since there are no riparian buffer strips; and (b) results in high
earthworks volumes, problematic drainage, high risks of damage to the roadbench from
prism and cutslope failure, and high sediment production.
According to Asmarandei and Cazan (1996), in Romania roads on slopes steeper than 60
percent have been banned since 1980, as have roads involving more than 15,000 m3 of
earthworks.
It appears that the current practice of forest roads planning does not fully consider some
important features normally highlighted in 'sustainable forest management', specifically (i)
areas of high biodiversity values, especially along rivers and streams ('riparian values and
habitats'), and (ii) areas prone to erosion. Although large-scale topographic maps are used,
there is no use of aerial photos for alignment planning, (presumably no geomorphological
analysis and mapping), and no prior identification of fine-scale sensitive areas (habitats,
slopes). Excellent guidance on the planning and design of roads in mountain environments,
directly applicable to forest roads, is however, widely available.45
(45)  TRL (1997). Principles of Low Cost Road Engineering in Mountainous Regions. Overseas Road Note 16.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT   79                  NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESIS



The forest management planning process should also consider harvesting methods, access,
and non-timber values. Explicit inclusion of these costs and benefits in compartment-level
planning may result in changes in prescriptions and need for access due to recognition of the
full costs of road construction and use, and the potential loss of non-timber benefits.
Currently, there are no 'best practice guidelines' or 'best management practices' to guide the
road location planning process (e.g. mandatory riparian buffer strips, avoidance of sensitive
slopes).
If planning practices are modified, the question of institutional responsibilities for approvals
arises: who should approve the alignment - the NFA, the DoF, the Forest Inspectorate, or
perhaps the county EPA? How can their skills and independence be assured?
Further questions arise in relation to forest roads in the private sector. Should there be public
subsidies? [Austrian practice is that public subsidies are dependent on proof of an optimized
development project based on evaluation of different extraction methods (Sedlak 1996).]
How can layouts be optimized?
Design
Cross-sections and earthworks. Given a good alignment, the key to minimizing impacts and
costs is to balance cut and fill, in cross-section and/or longitudinally. If the slope being
crossed is less than 65 percent, it is usually possible to build part of the road on the fill prism.
This greatly reduces earthworks volumes, but requires careful attention to detail during
construction to ensure adequate compaction and support of the fill. On steeper slopes (if
they have to be crossed), construction normally has to be in full bench. This implies removal
of spoil along the completed section of road to either a fill section or to a safe disposal site.
Cutslope angles should be determined on the basis of the maximum slope that will stand up
in the long term, given the material being excavated.
Roads inspected during project preparation varied greatly in their design, depending on the
terrain and purpose. Cutslopes were generally tidily finished, and standing up well. The
clearest departure from the NFA specifications was in the general lack of provision for
roadside drainage at the base of the cutslope.
Drainage. Design norms (NFA 1999) specify that all forest roads in Romania should be
'crowned', i.e. they should have a cross-fall both ways from the center. This implies that all
roads should have some provision for drainage at the base of the cutslope. Roads inspected
during project preparation indicated that there are serious problems on many forest roads
relating to lack of provision for drainage (normally an open drain with culverts at
appropriate intervals).
One cheap and effective method of spilling water across forest roads is the 'rolling dip' (see
illustration in Garland 1983). These structures permit traffic to continue at reasonable speed,
are not subject to blockage by debris, and are not in use on the roads inspected.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  80                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Structures. The design of drainage structures - culverts and bridges - is well-established in
Romania. Standard culverts are box-section, with reinforced concrete slab decks on masonry
abutments. T his design is simple and not prone to blocking by debris. Designs are based on
regional hydrological norms and standard runoff parameters (culverts are understood to be
designed for 1 in 20 year flows). It is not known when these were established, or whether
they may require updating in the light of the last decade of hydrological readings and the
possibility of more extreme weather events in future resulting from global climate change.
There was little visible use of retaining or slope stabilization structures on the field trip.
Examples of the application of standard designs (retaining walls, log cribs, etc.) are given in
the standard specifications (NFA 1999). It is suggested that more widespread application of
bioengineering techniques could provide cost-effective solutions to existing cutslope, fill
prism and riverbank stability and erosion problems.
Specifications.  Forest road specifications are given in the NFA's 1999 Normativ
Departamental PD 67/80: Privind Projectarea Drumuril Forestiere Pentru Circulatia
Autovehiculelor. This book has the force of law under Ministerial Order No. 560 of
21.06.1999. Table 1 on p. 14 of the book presents the geometric elements of the three forest
road types: I Main, II Primary ('principal'), and III Secondary. In addition to geometric
design, the book gives details of drainage structures, retaining walls, and items such as signs
and safety precautions when clearing slides.
What appears to be missing from the specifications is detailed guidance on the use of
geometric design in steep terrain. Depending on the slope and substrate, the location of the
center line in relation to the pre-existing slope is crucial, both to reduce earthworks volumes
and to ensure the stability and safety of the final formation. Also missing (is the concept of
longitudinally-balance cut and fill, which implies both haulage to safe disposal sites and the
use of appropriate equipment (excavator and dump truck). Internationally, guidance on
forest road design is available from many jurisdictions, including, e.g., BC Forest Service
(1995).
Constructiont
Clearing limits. Field investigations did not raise any issues in relation to clearing limits. It
was apparent that every effort is made to limit clearing widths to the minimum necessary for
the physical works.
Earthworks. Field visits indicated that there are considerable opportunities to improve
earthworks practices, the benefits being reduced site damage, reduced earthworks volumes,
and improved stability and safety of the roadbench. There is some evidence that roads are
sometimes aligned across very steep terrain (>80 percent), and are being constructed by a
combination of dozer and excavator. Site damage under these conditions can be significant,
largely due to mismatched equipment and lack of operator training.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    81                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Other problems include difficulties in end-hauling spoil from road sites, because of the use of
inappropriate equipment, and inappropriate widening of the roadbench to permit turning
side-loading, with a great increase in earthworks volumes and site damage. Under these
circumstances, large volumes of excavated material can be lost accidentally downslope,
resulting in significant localized damage and loss of growing areas, sediment inputs to
watercourses downstream, loss of rock which could have been used for surfacing, a very
unstable fill prism showing signs of failure, high costs for site stabilization, and high future
maintenance costs.
Revegetation. Normally, newly-constructed surfaces are left to revegetate naturally (cut and
fill slopes). Rainfall intensity in Romania appears to be high enough to result in significant
erosion from unprotected earth surfaces. The use of hydroseeding be investigated to
determine its relevance to Romanian conditions.
Equipment. In Romania to date virtually all roads have been constructed by dozers. On
steep sites, the pushing action invariably results in loss of material downslope ('sidecasting'),
and often excessive cut and cutslope destabilization. To avoid these problems, many forest
jurisdictions elsewhere have been moving towards mandatory use of excavators on steeper
slopes. For example, in Austria the use of excavators on slopes exceeding 40 percent is
compulsory, as is the end-hauling of surplus cut material on all slopes exceeding 70 percent
(Sedlak 1996). The successful use of excavators is totally dependent on the training and
professional understanding of the operator. Lack of training, knowledge and experience
results in essentially no improvement over dozer construction. An excellent case study of
the relative merits and performance of dozers and excavators for forest road construction can
be found in FAO (1999). Other equipment changes recommended are (a) hydraulic rock
breakers, and (b) dump trucks.
Health and safety. Both the road construction and timber extraction operations inspected
during project preparation were notable for the lack of use of personal protective equipment
(PPE) by workers. Except for two pairs of gloves, no workers were seen to be wearing or
using the basics - safety footwear, gloves, and hard hats.
Blasting. There are blasting guidelines, which emphasize the use of pre-split and other
controlled blasting techniques. The use of blasting could be minimized if there was a move
towards use of hydraulic rock-breaking equipment (hydraulic hammers mounted on
excavators).
Best management practices. To minimize environmental impacts and promote greater care,
many forest jurisdictions elsewhere have developed 'best management practices', Codes of
Practice, and guidelines for forest operations. Typical subjects covered include road planning
and design, earthworks, river crossings, spoil disposal. These specify methods to be used,
rather than the standards to be obtained as a result of the methods. Such guidelines do not
exist in Romania.
Contracts. Standard road construction contracts in use in Romania specify outputs rather
than methods. It appears that there is scope for including descriptions of construction
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  82                 NIINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



methods in road construction contracts (e.g. mandatory 'best practice' guidelines). Among
other things, contracts should also include specific penalties for infringement of methods.
Equipment. Improved methods implies use of different equipment, i.e. excavators and
dump-trucks rather than bulldozers. It will take a considerable effort to create a competent
and effective road construction contracting industry, since this requires re-investment in
both equipment and human resources. For example, use of excavators for road construction
implies a significantly higher degree of training and expertise on the part of the operator,
and therefore higher status and salary.
Supervision. Improved methods will not be implemented unless there is strict enforcement.
One element of this is adequate understanding on the part of the supervisor, which implies
training.
Safety. Contracts should include clauses relating to safe working practices and use of
personal protective equipment. These should be enforced.
Use and Maintenance
Site investigations indicated that the NFA faces considerable challenges relating to both
routine and periodic maintenance, specifically:
* blocked side drains and culverts
* absence of side drains (completely filled by sediment)
* soft road surfaces - no recent regravelling
* concave road surfaces encouraging erosion
* runoff from blocked or absent drains causing or exacerbating failures of the road prism
Some roads n0ow require full rehabilitation, and periodic maintenance will not be sufficient.
Roads are typically damaged in some areas by the use of oversize trucks by logging
companies (30 t). Basic techniques for the maintenance of roads on private woodlots are
available in, e.g. Adams (1983). Maintenance norms are given in an NFA publication under
Ministerial Order 560/1999. The principal questions arising in relation to maintenance are,
how to ensure that the NFA has an adequate maintenance budget; and how to ensure that
roads on private forests receive adequate maintenance.
Closure
Road deactivation. Roads which are not required for forest operations or other traffic for an
extended period still require maintenance. Without maintenance the road will deteriorate,
and may be lost entirely if culverts block and the roadbench is washed out. These continuing
maintenance costs and/or attendant risks of loss of the road and environmental damage can
be minimized or avoided by road closure or 'deactivation'.
Deactivation considers the need for the road, the duration of closure if it is not needed (e.g.
10 years between thinnings), and the most practical physical means of avoiding continuing
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NiANAGEMENT  83                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FOREST



maintenance costs and risks of environmental damage. Typically, roads not required for a
few years should receive simple treatments such as water bars , and roads not required for
five or more years should have culverts removed and other treatments to ensure unimpeded,
maintenance-free drainage. These treatments lower recurrent costs, and ensure that road
access can be re-created at low cost when it is needed again (e.g. by grading out the water
bars). In some cases roads which are inappropriately sited and environmentally risky may
be partly or completely restored, by removal of culverts and partial refilling of the road
bench by using material pulled up from the road prism. This reclaims some or all of the
growing area and allows the site to heal itself.
These concept are not widely know in Romania. Their wide acceptance elsewhere on
economic and environmental grounds (e.g. the Pacific north-west of North America), suggest
that their application should be formally investigated.
5.3.2. Mitigationi Measures
Strategic planninig anzd reform of t/ie NFA
As no negative impacts of this component are envisaged, no specific mitigation measures are
included in the project.
Forest roads rehtabilitationi anyd expantsioni
The investment in new roads and the rehabilitation of old forest roads will have a positive
impact on the economic performance of the NFA by increasing the economic efficiency of
harvesting. Improved economic performance is expected to increase NFA's ability to finance
the conservation of protected areas which will remain under its mandate. This in itself has
important positive environmental implications, but the immediate concern is how potential
negative impacts of roads rehabilitation and expansion can be mitigated.
The tentative location of road sub-projects has been selected in the first instance through a
process of environmental, social and economic screening. In the context of well-established
sustainable forest management plans, the environmental impact of the roads component are
expected to be beneficial: better designed roads will reduce erosion, and a more rational
network will limit damage to vegetation caused by long skidding distances.
To minimize other potential environmental impacts of the road sub-component, a number of
mitigation measures will be undertaken, consistent with the approach the project has taken
toward the future identification of sub-projects. In summary, these mitigation steps include:
* the development and application of a Best Practice Manual for the siting, design and
construction of all FDPs roads.
* compliance with the construction and rehabilitation methods outlined in the Best Practice
Manual will be a contractual obligation of all roads sub-contractors financed by the
project both during the design and construction phases;
* all new roads sub-projects and all rehabilitation sub-projects will be rescreened for their
potential environmental impacts and; where significant negative effects are anticipated,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  84                  MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



individual sub-project Environmental Assessments will be carried out to identify
mitigation steps;
*   any new road construction sub-project or roads rehabilitation sub-project which provides
increased access to protected areas will automatically be dropped from the list of
proposed sub-projects;
*   a cumulative impact screen will be carried out which would involve mapping planned
FDP road projects at a county level to determine when more than one project will occur
in a river basin (catchment), and then managing the projects to minimize cumulative
impacts; and
*   Contractual compliance with the Best Practice Manual and with the recommendations
and findings of any of the Environmental Assessments which are prepared for individual
roads sub-projects will be monitored by the Forest Road Specialist in the PCT and by a
counterpart(s) to be identified within the Forest Inspectorate.
The Forestry Road Specialist and the designated Fl counterpart(s) will need to take particular
account of any potential cumulative impacts of the road component (as noted above). Whilst
one road may not have significant environmental impacts, taken together, several new
and/or rehabilitated roads in a region could add significant pressures to fragile ecosystems,
existing public road systems and transit villages and towns. The cumulative footprint of
several projects could therefore be far greater than the aggregate of impacts from a single
road project. A useful method for assessing cumulative impacts is impact mapping. Using
this approach, the various impacts of individual roads in a delineated area are mapped and
laid over each other to compare and contrast the acceptability of all the impacts. More
sophisticated techniques such as computer-aided Geographical Information Systems are
useful tools in preparing maps of cumulative impacts.
The design and implementation schedule for the Forest Road Sub-Component of the FDP,
which incorporates various mitigations steps, is shown in Table 9.
Table 9: Schedulefor implemnentatiotn of FDP Forest Road Sub-Component
Year    Activities
1        No road works will be implemented in Year 1. The Best Practices Manual will
be developed through an international tender/commission; the BP Manual
will be specific to the environmental setting and institutional aspects of the
forestry sector in Romania. In the latter half of Year 1, the first tranche of roads
rehabilitation road sub-projects will be identified, and the recommendations
and specifications of the BP Manual will be incorporated into engineering
designs. Following design, sub-projects will be screened for their potential
environmental impacts. EAs and mitigation plans will be prepared for roads
rehabilitation sub-projects which are expected to have significant negative
environmental impacts.
2        Second tranche of roads rehabilitation and new road sub-projects will be
identified, and the recommendations and specifications of the BP Manual will
be incorporated into engineering designs. Roads sub-projects will be screened
for their potential environmental impacts, EAs and mitigation plans will be
prepared for roads rehabilitation and new road sub-projects which are
expected to have significant negative environmental impacts. Construction
tendering and implementation for first tranche of roads rehabilitation sub-
_   projects identified in Year 1. No new roads will be constructed in Year 2.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT       85                     MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Year    ActiVities
3       Third tranche of roads rehabilitation and new road sub-projects will be
identified, and the recommendations and specifications of the BP Manual will
be incorporated into engineering designs. Roads sub-projects Will be screened
for their potential environmental impacts, EAs and mitigation plans will be
prepared for roads rehabilitation and new road sub-projects which are
expected to have significant negative environmental impacts. Construction
tendering and implementation for second tranche of roads rehabilitation and
new, roads sub-projects identified in Year 2.
4       Fourth tranche of roads rehabilitation and new road sub-projects will be
identified, and the recommendations and specifications of the BP Manual will
be incorporated into engineering designs. Roads sub-projects will be screened
for their potential environmental impacts, EAs and mitigation plans will be
prepared for roads rehabilitation and newr road sub-projects which are
expected to have significant negative environmental impacts. Construction
tendering and implementation for third tranche of roads rehabilitation and
new roads sub-projects identified in Year 3.
5       Fifth tranche of roads rehabilitation and new road sub-projects w ill be
identified, and the recommendations and specifications of the BP Manual will
be incorporated into engineering designs. Roads sub-projects will be screened
for their potential environmental impacts, EAs and mitigation plans will be
prepared for roads rehabilitation and new road sub-projects which are
expected to have significant negative environmental impacts. Construction
tendering and implementation for fourth tranche of roads rehabilitation and
new roads sub-projects identified in Year 4.
Construction tendering and implementation of the final tranche of roads
rehabilitation and new roads sub-projects.
All road works will be designed according to standards and specifications to be developed in
a Best Practice Manual for Forest Road Design Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
(the BP Manual). The BP Manual will therefore comprise one of the main mitigation
measures for the minimization of potential impacts of the road works in the FDP.
In addition to preparation of the Best Practice Manual, its use during design, and its use as a
contractual obligation of roads construction and rehabilitation sub-contractors, all roads sub-
projects (whether new construction or rehabilitation) will be subject to screening for their
potential negative environmental and social impacts. Where these are considered serious, an
Environmental Assessment will be carried out to develop mitigating steps, and to provide
guidance to roads design and engineering in a manner which ensures negative
environmental impacts are minimized.
Screeningfor potential negative environmental impacts
Once new roads sub-projects and roads rehabilitation sub-projects have been redesigned on
the basis of the Best Practice Manual, they will be rescreened for their potential
environmental impacts. New forest road sub-projects are expected to have a greater
potential for negative environmental impacts and will require careful analysis of baseline
conditions, a review of siting and design decisions, and the development of mitigation
measures to be incorporated in the engineering design. In practice, new roads will very
likely require the preparation of individual environmental assessments. Road rehabilitation
projects are likely to have fewer impacts since the road footprint already exists.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        86                    MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



The environmental screening and assessment process which will be undertaken during
implementation of the FDP Forest Roading Sub-Component is based on a screening system
developed by Intergroup Engineering and ERM. This was adapted from a preliminary
screening system developed by Fortech and the INL. The screen considers environmental
and social impacts by reviewing nine elements, which are broken down into 26 sub-elements
(see Table 10). The sub-elements are intended to reflect the adequacy (or not) of
design/management measures incorporated in the road project design.46 The screening
process rates the likely resolution of each potential issue according to the following rating
categories:
(+)    potential environmental and social issues very well resolved;
(x)    potential environmental and social issues partially resolved;
(-)    potential environmental and social issues not resolved; and
(NA)   not applicable.
The rating for each sub-element considers two factors:
* The significance of the sub-element as a design problem on the basis of the physical,
biotic, and social setting for the road project; and
* How well does the road design resolve the problem (on the basis of the feasibility study
which has been completed).
Table 10: Screening Roads Construction and Rehabilitation Sub-projectsfor their potential
environmental and social impacts
Screening
Category        Element         Sub-Element        Explanation
ENVIRONMENT     Slope Stability  Unstable Geology  Unstable marine, sedimentary clays (marl) with
and Erosion                       high landslide potential in counties of Buzau,
(Landscape                        Cluj, Prahova and Vrancea; roads in this geologic
Degradation)                      material often require geotechnical solutions.
Slope > 60'       Very steep slopes requiring blasting and
associated design, construction, and
maintenance measures.
Erosion and       High versus low potential and corresponding
flooding          management measures
Access to degraded  Road allows access to areas damaged from
areas for         landslides, avalanche, or other events in need of
rehabilitation    rehabilitation through revegetation, etc.
Stream bank       Siting of road away from stream banks and/or
erosion prevention  proper bank armoring measures employed.
Nature          Habitat           Road potentially functions as barrier to wildlife
Conservation    fragmentation
New access to     Road creates new access to protected areas
protected
areas/special
preserves
(46)   This method of screening sub-projects is modified from the so-called Environmental Evaluation System
(EES) developed by the Battelle Columbus Laboratories (see UN ESCAP, p.22) to establish the scale of
possible environmental and social impacts.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT       87                     MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Screening
Category         Element         Sub-Element        Explanation
Proper             Road is sited and designed to avoid or minimize
environmental      phvsical and biological impacts
planning/siting of
road
Aquatic         Access to existing  Road allows access to hvdraulic structures such
Resources       hvdraulic control  as irrigation collector channels, small
structures         impoundments, etc.
Water quality      Road incorporates measures to minimize
impacts on water qualitv (e.g., stream buffers,
sediment traps)
Air Qualitv     Minimizes air      Road is designed to allow more efficient travel
emissions by       (e.g., sufficient width or vehicle passing points,
optimizing         grade and surface permit efficient speed of
transport          travel).
efficiencies
Occupational    Design of safe     Road is designed in a manner to reduce risk of
Health anL      roads              accidents
Safetv
Forest          Access for forest  Road provides adequate access for sanitary
Management      management         purposes, clearing of fallen trees, and disease
prevention
Traffic capacity   Road is scaled to meet expected loads from
harvesting, extraction, and local communities
Recreation      Landscape and      Clearance of trees, earthworks, blasting and
aesthetic qualities  other disturbances to vistas
Fishing and        Negative effects due to disturbance and water
hunting,           qualitv impacts
SOCIAL           Relocation or   Construction and   Road bed re-location or widening, staging areas
other land take  maintenance of    for vehicles, equipment, and materials, road
impacts         roads              blockages
(temporarv and  Residences         Road bed re-location or widening, staging areas
permanent)                         for vehicles, equipment, and materials, road
blockages
Businesses         Road bed re-location or widening, staging areas
for vehicles, equipment, and materials, road
blockages
Alterations of     Riparian zones are used for manv purposes; road
existing conditions  works have potential to interfere with usage
in riparian zones  given riparian location.
Other impacts   Communities will   Traffic, noise, nuisance and other direct and
on Local        be affected         indirect impacts associated with road
Community                           construction and future forestry operations on
the road; also the positive impacts of improved
access to NTFPs* and wood.
Communities have   Re the project and above impacts
been consulted
Approval of local  Re the project and above impacts
community
Forest access      Will the road construction result in a hiatus in
continuity         usage by the local communities preventing
._.________________  access to NTFPs and wood supplies?
Notes: NTFPs are non-timber forest products such as mushrooms, honey, nuts, and medicinal or other plants.
Testing the screening method
In order to test and evaluate the practicality of using this screening method, Intergroup
Engineering carried out a screening of 62 of the 65 forest roads rehabilitation sub-projects
which had been initially proposed for project investment. Appendix 10: Results from
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT         88                    NMINISRY OF AGRIcULTURE, FOOD AND FoRESTs



Prelimiinanr Screeninlg of Roads Rehlabilitationi Sub-projects for tiheir Environnmental an?d Social
Mipacts provides the full results of the screening exercise. While new roads sub-projects
which are to be constructed by the project will be screened during project implementation,
the test screening procedures did not incorporate these in this initial analysis because of the
assumption that these would all require environmental assessments in any event.
Intergroup relied on sub-element responses supplied by NFA's district offices but which
were collected and compiled by INL staff in Brasov. This was done for expediency during
the preparation of the original EA. Given that the NFA district offices have identified the
need for the road projects in each case, and therefore have a vested interest in their approval,
there is the likelihood that the responses are biased (i.e., a tendency to discount or
underestimate potential environmental and social issues which may arise from a road project
and/or to overestimate the adequacy of the project design to manage and mitigate the
impacts). During project implementation a more neutral and objective institution will carry
out the screening process to reduce bias.
Preliminary screening results were examined in two ways:
*  By (x) or (-) sub-element score frequency across the 62 FDP road rehabilitation projects
subjected to the screen; and
* A summary of the scores by the roads.
Sub-element scoring frequency is presented in Table 11 below, but the results should be
interpreted with caution, as they are based on the opinions of NFA district staff collected
through telephone interviews; and because there was no independent examination of
feasibility studies nor field verification. Clearly, these results are indicative and are only
preliminary and are not adequate for full and transparent decision making in the
environmental screening process, which will be undertaken during project preparation.
According to this screening process, feasibility studies for roads sub-projects fail most
frequently to account for potential water quality impacts (in particular stream bank erosion),
do not consider mitigating measures for the construction of roads on slopes of greater than
60 percent, do not consider the impacts of roads on landscape and aesthetics, and give poor
attention to issues related to relocation and other negative effects on businesses.
Given the mountainous terrain and the location of the majority of the roads in narrow, valley
floors adjacent to streams, water quality impacts are to be expected greatest when re-
constructing gravel roads. Given variations in terrain, slope, soils and other constraints,
potential water quality impacts are likely to greater for some roads than others. The potential
impacts on businesses refer to the temporary closure of the roads which is required for the
rehabilitation works in a number of the projects. In some cases this will impact harvesting of
non-timber forest products (NTFPs) and in others it will affect general commerce when the
forest road is used for travel between villages.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    89                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 11: Resultsfront testing the screening method plannedfor FDPforest road
rehabilitation sub-projects, key issues in roadfeasibility studies
Number of slab-projects
whltere envlironmtetital!  Number of suib-projects
social issutes are        whiere emnironimental/
partially, but notfuilly  social issues are rnot
addressed byfeasibility  addressed byfeasibility
stuidies (frequentcy based  stuidies ('frequency based
Subs-elemlent Issiue     on 62 roads in sample)    on 62 roads)
Water Quality                 34 (52 percent)    |
Slope > 60                     11 (17 percent)    [     18 (27 percent)
Open space and visual         17 (26 percent)
quality                                            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Relocation and other
negative effects -            15 (23 percent)
construction
Increased access to                                     9 (14 percent)
protected areas
Erosion of stream banks        9 (14 percent)
Difficult Geology              7 (11 percent)
Relocation and other           7 (11 percent)
negative effects - business
Altering riparian zones        5 (8 percent)
Conservation of major          4 (6 percent)
undeveloped areas
Erosion and flooding           3 (5 percent)
Local community affected       3 (5 percent)
Local community                1 (2 percent)
consulted
Local community                1 (2 percent)
approval
The scoring results of the individual road projects are presented in the far right column of
the spreadsheet in Appendix 10: Results from Preliminany Screening of Roads Relhabilitatioot Suib-
projects for thzeir Environmental and Social Impacts and are summarized in Table 12 below. One
of the most significant results of the analysis presented in the table is that there were only 2
roads rehabilitation sub-projects where environmental or social issues were thought to be nil.
Table 12: Resultsfrom initial environmental and social screening of proposed roads
rehabilitation sub-projects
Number of
roads
Scoring     rehabilitation
Outcomes     sub-projects
(x), (-), or  receiving
combination   score           Road references" Note)
lx             10        4,5,9,12,14,21,53,54,55,77
2x             15        3, 7, 13, 17, 18,29, 32, 45, 52, 61, 71,
73, 79, 81, 90
3x             5         41, 43, 80, 86, 91
4x             6         28,40,42,68,69,78
0              2        20,22
1-             4         23,34,57,58
2-             1         56
ENVIRONMENTAL REsoURCES MIANAGEMEN-T          90                      MINISTY oF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Number of
roads
Scoring   rehabilitation
Outcomes   sub-projects
(x), (-), or  receiving
combination  score        Road reference(/e Note)
Ix andi- l               46, 48,50, 72, 88
Ix and 2-       1        51
2xandl-         4       '15,16,47,74
2x and 2-       1        30
3x and 1-       4        33, 44, 70, 87
4x and 1-       1        27
5x and 1-       2        31, 39
,x and 2-       1        26
Total         62
Note: see Appcendix 10: Results from Prelimunana Screening of Roads
Rcliabilitationi Szib-projectsfor thicir Environmental and Social Impacts for
detailed results and names and locations of roads
In interpreting these results, one can conclude that sub-projects with a higher number of
unresolved or partially resolved environmental or social issues are likely to pose more
significant problems during implementation.
Following the completion of this initial screen, maps were prepared showing the planned
location of all 91 initially-proposed roads construction and rehabilitation sub-projects and
their relationship to protected areas. Sub-projects which were proposed which either passed
through a protected area or through a buffer zone which could have increased access to
protected areas were at this stage excluded from the project because of the possibility that
logging in protected areas would be an outcome. Of the initial list of 91 sub-projects, 20 sub-
projects were rejected on these grounds. These roads accounted for around 90 km of the
initial list of roads proposed for rehabilitation (or 18 percent of the 500 km of roads initially
identified for rehabilitation), and around 25 km of the initial list of roads proposed for
construction (or around a third of the 80 km of roads initially identified for new
construction). Additional sub-projects will be identified during the course of project
implementation which will account for the balance of road works financed by the project.
Using the screening results to determine when EAs will be prepared
One of the purposes of this proposed screening system is to establish when an environmental
assessment should be carried out of a proposed roads sub-project. In these circumstances, an
EA would thoroughly evaluate potential issues and would make recommendations for
alternative designs and/or mitigation measures which would avoid, minimize and/or
mitigate negative environmental or social impacts. In extreme cases the EA might
recommend that sub-projects be dropped.
The standard practice in making this determination is to establish thresholds which would
be applied to the outcome of the screening process. In reviewing the outcomes from the
tested screening approach, the following thresholds have been established which would be
used for determining when environmental assessments of sub-projects would be carried out:
* Score of 4 or more (x)s;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT      91                   MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORES15



* Score of 2 or more (-)s; or
* A combined score of 4 or more of the hto (e.g., 3x and 1-, 4x and 1-, 5x and 1-, and 2x
and2-).
If this procedure is applied to the roads screened in this trial exercise, and if the roads sub-
projects which pass through protected areas or buffer zones are dropped, there would be a
requirement for 11 Environmental Assessments for road rehabilitation sub-road projects. In
all likelihood, once they were screened, all of the 18 new road sub-projects identified in the
initial list of roads sub-projects would also require Environrmental Assessments, bringing the
total number of sub-project specific EAs likely to be undertaken in conjunction with the
project to 29. [It must be kept in mind that all roads sub-projects will be rescreened once they
have been designed on the basis of standards described in the Best Practice Manual.
Rescreening at this stage will likely reduce the number of sub-projects which will require an
EA.]
An additional cumulative impact screening process will be carried out to identify instances
when two or more road projects occur in a single river basin or catchment of 1000 ha or
smaller. This analysis should be carried out early in Year 1 by mapping the roads county by
county at a sufficient scale to identify these situations. Special attention should be devoted to
such cases to minimize cumulative impacts. Options for management would include phasing
the implementation of the road projects to avoid simultaneous construction impacts or,
where this is difficult or undesirable for economic or other reasons, requiring EAs for these
road projects regardless of the individual scores resulting from the screening process.
Preparing sub-project specific EAs
In order further to test the screening process, and as well as provide indicative EAs of FDP
forest roads for future reference, two EAs of possible FDP forest road rehabilitation sub-
projects were commissioned as part of the overall original EA of the FDP by Intergroup
Engineering. The subject roads were Valea Mare Crizbav in Forest District Sacele, Brasov
County and Paltinoasa in Forest District Campina, Prahova County.
These two roads were chosen to illustrate possible approaches toward environmental and
social impact assessment. The Valea Mare Crizbav project is a relatively straightforward
rehabilitation project which involves no significant issues (screening system score = 2x).
Paltinoasa is located in the area of difficult geology (marl) where a high water table and
landsliding potential require more complex road design and construction methods
(screening system score 4x and 1-).
These two EAs were prepared in accordance with prevailing practices in Romania. The two
EAs were prepared before the environmental and social impact screening and assessment
process was fully developed, but still clearly demonstrate that the capacity to produce
adequate EAs of forest road sub-projects exists in the private sector in Romania. It should be
noted that both sub-projects were designed and developed using prevailing national
standards. They will be re-designed on the basis of the Best Practice Guidelines, and
rescreened for potential environmental impacts on the basis of this redesign. The two
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT  92                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



indicative EAs for these roads sub-projects are included in Volume II (Annex 3) of this
report.
The preparation of a large number of EAs during project implementation is potentially a
substantial burden, both in terms of cost and time, particularly for roads rehabilitation. In
some respects, it is an unreasonably high standard, exceeding the standards described in
Romania's own environmental legislation, as well as standards established in EC Directive
85/337/EEC on Environmiental Inpact Assessmlenit as amended by 97/11/EEC, which exempts
the forestry sector from mandatory EA requirements, and which allows member states to
establish their own thresholds with respect to when EAs would be required for the
construction of new roads (making no mention whatsoever of requiring EAs for roads
rehabilitation). Romanian legislation currently establishes no thresholds for roads
construction or rehabilitation whatsoever.
Guidance about the scale and coverage of EAs is provided by the World Bank's Operational
Policy 4.01 Environmental Assessment which states firstly that,
'EA is a process whose breadthi, deptlh, and type of analysis depend oni thie nature, scale, anid
potential environmental impact of the proposed project.' (emphasis added)
Secondly, OP 4.01 provides explicitly for the preparation of sub-project EAs (when these are
confirmed to be necessary as result of screening), during project implementation and
requires the implementing institution 'to carry out appropriate EA according to country
requirements and the requirements of this policy.'
In light of this, EAs for forest roads should be focused on very clearly meeting the intent of
OP 4.01 (which, compared with national requirements is the higher standard) to provide
sub-project EAs of breadth, depth, and type which reflects the nature, scale, and potential
environmental impact of the proposed sub-project. This intent can be met by focusing
critically on the immediate scope of individual roads sub-projects, the main purpose being
objectively to review the proposed road project design in light of specific field conditions
and the potential and significant negative environmental and social impacts which may
result.
Once sub-projects have been rescreened for their potential environmental and social impacts,
sub-project specific EAs will be largely based on detailed field reconnaissance visits to the
site or corridor of the road: both without and with the road design engineer. Specific
problem areas should be identified in the field and studied. The main output of the EA
should be recommendations to avoid, minimize and mitigate potential impacts, during both
construction and operation. A suggested outline for sub-project specific EAs follows:
(h)    Summary, which discusses significant findings and recommended actions.
(i)    Policy, legal, and administrative framework. Discusses the policy, legal, and
administrative framework within which the EA is carried out. Explains the
environmental requirements of any cofinanciers. Identifies relevant international
ENVIRONMENTAL RESoURCES MANAGEMENT   93                  MINISMY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



environmental agreements to which the country is a party. It is unlikely that this
section will change significantly from sub-project to sub-project.
()    Sub-project description which describes the proposed project and its geographic,
ecological, social, and temporal context. Indicates the need for any resettlement or
relocation. Includes a map showing the project site and the project's area of
influence.
(k)   Baseline data. Assesses the dimensions of the sub-project area and describes
relevant physical, biological, and socioeconomic conditions. Particularly referring
to the current Forest Management Plan, takes into account current and proposed
forest management activities.
(1)   Environmental and social impacts. Predicts and assesses the project's likely
positive and negative impacts, in quantitative terms to the extent possible.
Identifies mitigation measures and any residual negative impacts that cannot be
mitigated.
(m)   Analysis of alternatives. Systematically compares feasible alternatives, taking
account of guidance in the Best Practice Manual, in terms of their potential
environmental impacts; the feasibility of mitigating these impacts; their capital
and recurrent costs; suitability under local conditions; and their institutional,
training, and monitoring requirements.
(n)   Environmental management plan (EMP). Covers mitigation measures and
monitoring and cross-references these to the Best Practice Manual.
Once the draft EA is completed, it will be made locally available for consultation and review
for a period of 60 days, and notice of its availability will be published in a nationally
circulated magazine. Written comments on the EA will be solicited in this review process,
and if needed, public consultations will be carried out. Written comments will be considered
in preparing road sub-projects designs.
It should be noted that all FDP road projects will sited and designed incorporating the
guidelines, specifications and standards which will be included in the forest roading Best
Practice Manual which is to be developed by an international consultant during the first year
of FDP implementation. This redesign will assist in reducing the number and significance of
the potential impacts.
Summary: Procedures for Environmental and Social Impact Screening and Assessment
The procedures for environmental and social impact screening and assessment are as
follows:
1. The Best Practice Manual will be completed in the first project year. The Best Practice
Manual should be made widely available for public information. The Best Practice
Manual will also include guidance with respect to environmental and social
screening and assessment.
2. A cumulative impacts screen will be carried out in the first project year to identify
instances when two or more road projects occur in a single river basin or catchment
of 1000 ha or smaller, or where roads interfere with habitats of concern. Options for
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  94                 MIN1STRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



management would include phasing the implementation of the road projects to avoid
simultaneous construction impacts or, where this is difficult or undesirable for
economic or other reasons, requiring EAs for these road projects regardless of the
individual scores resulting from the screening process.
3. Five tranches of roads construction and rehabilitation sub-projects are envisaged
during the life of the project. Roads proposed for inclusion in each tranche will be
listed by public notice annually in every project year.
4. Roads sub-projects will be designed on the basis of the construction methods outlined
in the Best Practice Manual.
5. Once sub-project design is complete according to the standards outlined in the Best
Practice Manual, sub-projects will be screened for their potential environmental and
social impacts, following the procedures and screening approach outlined in this
report and incorporating any additional measures outlined in the Best Practice
Manual. The screening process will involve an intensive review of the road sub-
project design (i.e., Feasibility Study, as well as consultation with the local NFA
district office and the design engineers). Screening will be carried out by the Roads
Engineer with the PCT working closely with qualified personnel with the Forest
Inspectorates, and will include site visits.
6. Road sub-projects will be scored for their potential negative environmental and social
impact, as described in this report, and scores falling above the threshold will be used
to determine which road sub-projects require an EA. Other roads sub-projects would
not require an EA.
7. It is anticipated that, as a result of the screening process, all new roads will be subject
to an EA.
8. The EA will be carried out by a qualified independent local consultant who will
adhere to the outline and disclosure practices outlined in this report. The EA will
identify mitigating steps not already accounted for in roads design, and will consider
other options such as re-siting, alternative routings, and dropping the sub-project
altogether if adequate mitigating measures cannot be undertaken. The quality of the
EA, and the standards adopted, will be reviewed by the staff with the Fl and with the
Pcr.
Institutions with responsibilityfor implementing environmental and social impacts
screening and assessment
There are serious capacity constraints for carrying out environmental and social impacts
screening and assessment. It is envisaged in the short term that the project will employ a
Forest Roads Specialist as part of the Project Coordination Team. The Terms of Reference for
this position are in preparation. The Roads Specialist should have a good understanding of
forest roads, forest road best practice, design, and operation, with experience and
background in environmental assessment and mitigation. The Road Specialist will have
some responsibility for commissioning and managing road sub-project EAs, as well as the
review and implementation of EA recommendations. The Road Specialist will also be
involved in tendering for and supervision of road construction and rehabilitation projects to
ensure that:
*  design and construction management specifications of the Best Practice Manual are
requirements of the construction contract and that these standards and requirements are
clear to the winning bidder; and
*  standards are understood by the agencies charged with supervising construction and are
enforced.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    95                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FooD AND FORESTS



The Forest Inspectorate is the best positioned government agency to carry out the
environmental screening and review function for forest roads when FDP is completed, but to
do so, it is necessary that capacity is developed. The Forest Inspectorate will identify a staff
member, with qualifications which are similar qualifications to the Road Specialist's, and
assign this individual on a full or part time basis to work closely with the Road Specialist.
This individual's responsibilities will parallel those identified for the Road Specialist and will
include commissioning and managing the EAs which are carried out as well as the review
and implementation of the EA recommendations and construction supervision. The intent of
this liaison and shared responsibilities during the six-year implementation period of the FDP
is that the necessary capacity would be developed and that these responsibilities be
transferred to the Forest Inspectorate.
Sub-project specific EAs will be contracted through competitive tendering procedures
consistent with World Bank Guidelines. Conflict of interest provisions specified in these
guidelines will of course be adhered to.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     96                   ININSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 13: linipacts, Mitigationi and Managenientt Actionisfor FDP Components
l_Impacts, Mitigation and Managenien t Actionisfor FDP Coniaponents
Impact                                                    +7ve Magnitude
Conaponent      Receptor    Potertial Impacts                             /-ye   of lnpact [Mitigatio,VErihalcenienVanageniietit
i: ,Establis.    ',,,,, 'ti Efui eSustainG1,t bManagemet f Pivaie Forest Lands
1.a Forest       Environment/ *   Promote environmentally sustainable management  +    H      * training and capacity building
Inspectorate:    Institutional    of public and private forests                               * extension and awareness raising of public (comp. 3)
Supervisory,                                                                                  * operational guidelines for environmiental management
Regulatory and   Environment   * Control loss of biodiversity in newly restituted  +   H      * power to regulate and enforce FMPs on restituted land
Advisory                         forests                                                      * promotion of environmentally sustainable managemilenit practices
Capacity                                                                                         (extension)
* public awareness raising (comp. 3)
* policing forest activities in the field
Environment/ *   Decrease damage to vulnerable watersheds,    +       M      * power to regulate and enforce FMPs on restituted land
Economic        infrastructure and agricultural land associated with         * promotion of environmentally sustainable managemenit practices
unsustainable harvesting and erosion                            (extension)
. public awareness raising (comp. 3)
* policing forest activities in the field
* diagnostic of corruption and governance in the forcst sector to
define steps to rediuce impact.
Environment  * Control of illegal harvesting increases and systems  +  M     * public awareness raising (comp. 3)
are in place to handle problems of governance and            * visible presence of Fis in forest areas
corruption                                                   * collaborative relationship of Fl with local communities/private
business
Social        *  Hostility to Fl from local communities/forest users  -  L   . consultation and engagement with local communities/forest
users to secure buy-in and mutual understanding of needs.
Economic     *  Increased revenue and tax from maximizing     +        I     * clear and transparent tax and revenue collection system
Romania's sustainable forest production potential            *  incentives to promote investment into modern and less
environmentally damaging harvesting andl transport equipment
* public awareness raising on tax system
Economic      *  Preserving and enhancing Romania's eco-touris +             . public awareness on long-term international economic
and biodiversity potential                                      importance of Romania's forests
ENVIRONKMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGENIENT                                    97                                                 NIINISITRY OF AGRICULTURE, FCKn) AND FORrSIS



Imipacts, Mitigationi aid Managemnetit Actionts for FDP Comzponients
Itmpact                                                       +ve  Magniittude
Componenit       Receptor    Potenitia Imulpacts                               /-zle  of impact  Mitiga tioi/Eniliancemtenit/Maniagemnenit
lb,c. Support to  Environment    *  Promote environmentally sustainable exploitation  +     H       *  advice and support on I-SC certification
the Association of / Economic       of forest (with resultant long-term economic                    *  training facilities and programs on sustainiable forest
Private Forest                      returns)                                                           management
Owners and the                                                                                      *  policing forest activities in the field (by Fis - comp. 1.1)
local forest                                                                                        *  noperationial role of Fl clearly comimluniicated
owners                                                                                              *  provi(le gii(lelines on tools, metliho(s and belnefits of sustaina,lble
forest
* raise awareness (conip. 3)
Social         *  Restrictions on access to forest land for excluded  -    L      *  training and awareness raising
communities                                                     *  consultation with local forest users
* FMP's to take account of local forest uses
Economic      *   Increased opportunities for local employment and  +     H       *  training and awareness raising
local income generation                                         *  advice on investment options (conip. 2.4)
Economic      *   Induced private development for wood processing  +/-    H       *  business advice and support (comp. 2.4)
industries
Institutional/  *  Empowerment of local people through ownership  +       M       *  training facilities and programs on sustainable forest
Economic/         of forest resource                                                 management
Social                                                                            *  policing forest activities in the field (by FIs - comp. 1 1)
*  business advice and support (comp. 2.4)
1.d. Forest       Environment    *  Avoidance of cumulative environmental impacts of  +     H       *  strategic focus of management planninig at watershed/
Management        & Institutional   forest production activities (e.g. erosion,                        catcliment level
Information and                     biodiversity loss, sedimentation, transportation,               *  strategic planning to take account of cumtilative environmental
Monitoring                          industrial pollution from process industries)                      impacts
System                                                                                              .  use of GIS to facilitate improved strategic planning
*  training and capacity building on identification and avoidance of
cumulative environmental impacts
*  maximize access to, and enforcement of, strategic management
plans
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT                                           98                                                   MINISTRY oFAGRICUI1URE, 1oo)' ANI) FoERSTS



litnpacts, Mitigationi and Management Actions for FDP Componienits
Impact                                                     +71e Magnituide
Compontent       Receptor   Poteritial lIpacts                             1/-ve  of lItnpact  Mitiga tio/EnitanicenisentiAlainagesnielit
Environment   *  Establishment of effective monitoring systems for  +  H      * training and capacity building on environmental imipacts of
& Institutional  forest management and planning                                  forest operations
*  collection and tracking of data on enviroinmenital impacts of
forest activities (species diversity, forest cover, recreationi,
erosion, sedimentation, transport volumes and industrial
pollution from wood processing (air, water, soil anLi noise)).
*  establish mechanisms to respond to idenitificationi of negative
impacts
* maximize access to anti report monitorinig results
2. Mitigate Con    4R                       it i,f,' M, anageinenlt of State Forest LaniAs_._._...
2.a. Reform and  Environment/ *   More effective management and administration of  +    H       *  training of NFA staff on environmenitally sustainable forest
Strategic        Institutional    sustainable forestry                                             management
Development of                                                                                 * dedicated Environment function within NFA
the NFA                                                                                         * structural change to organization
Economic      *  Reduced revenue potential from forest production  -   H      .  training and capacity building in sustainable forest management
resulting from restitution (leading to potential             * change management
disincentives to manage forests sustainably)                  a implementation of NFPS
*  implementation of guidelines to pronmote sustainable forest
management
Economic      *  Promote sustainable management of private sector  +   H      *  training and capacity building
forest businesses                                            *  business development advice and support services (component
2.4)
2.b.Rehabilitation Environment/ *  Introduction of best practice in road siting, design,  +  H  *  training and capacity building (comp 1.1)
and Construction  Institutional   construction and maintenance                                  *  implement procedure to formalize use of Best Practice Manual
of Forest Roads                                                                                 *  implement screening and EA procedures (see Part II)
Environment   *  Reduce environmental impacts of existing      +       H      *  implement Best Practice Manual
production practices (e.g. associated with the need          *   implement screening and EA procedures (see Pairt II)
to skid logs long distances)
Environment   *  Increased illegal harvesting of wood and NTFPs  -     M      * empower Forest Inspectorates to patrol forests and prosecute
resulting from increased access                                  (comp. 1.1)
* public awareness raising (comp. 3)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                        99                                                 NIINIS1R1 oF AGRICUl:tURE, ICoo)D ANI) FoRrRIS



__Impacts, Mitigatiorn and Management Actionsfor FDP Comiponents
Impact                                                      +ve  Magnitiude
Componeit        Receptor   Potential Impacts                                1-ve  of Impact  Mit igatioarEniliancemnent/Mammagenwnt
Environment   *  Increased pressure on forest biodliversity resulting  -  M    * develop antL implement a hunting license and quota syste m
from increased access and tourism (e.g. huntinig)                (componen1t 1.1)
* charge for hunting rights (comp. 1.1)
Environment   *  Induced development along access roads         -       L      *  implemilenit screening an(d EA procedlures (see Pairt II)
*  enforcement of local planning controls (outside remit of FDP)
Environment   *  Sedimentation of streams (resulting in changes in  -   L      * assessment of cumulative impacts of forest roads (comp. 1.2)
streamflow and water temperature and thereby fish             *   implement Best Practice Nlanual for construction an(i
populations)                                                     maintenanice
*  implement screening and EA procedures (see Pnrt II)
Environment   *  Disturbance of wildlife through logging and    -       L       * assessment of cumulative impacts of forest roads (comp. 1.2)
transport activities                                          *  promotion of environmientally sustainable management practices
(comp. 1.1, 3)
*  implement Best Practice NManual
*  implement screening and EA procedures (see Part II)
Environment   *  Increased erosion resulting from poor siting and  -    H       * assessment of cumulative impacts of forest roads (comp. 1.2)
construction of forest roads                                  *   implement Best Practice Manual
*  implement screening and( EA procedures (see Patrt II)
*  avoidance of unstable slopes, buffer zonies, impact assessmenits,
permitting, construction practices.
* establish criteria for logging on slopes and near water to redluce
erosion
Environment   *  Increased soil compaction, puddling and erosion  -     L       *  policing implementationi of FMPs (conip 1 I)
from road activities and forest harvesting (leading            *  promotion of environimilenitally sustainable management practices
to siltation of water courses)                                   (comp. 1.1, 3)
*  implement Best Practice NManual
ENVIRONNMENTAL RESOURCES NANAGEMENr                                        100                                                 NIINISIRY OFAARICU I URT(, (O)D AN) FoRFS[IS



Impacts, Mitigatinn and Management Actions for FDP Compontentts
lmtpact                                                   +7,e Magnitude
Componienit      Receptor   Potential Impacts                              /-Ave  of Impact  Mitiga tio,la/hlancemie, tiManageinen it
Environment   *  Increased noise, disturbance and accidents from  -    M      * assessment of cumulative impacts of forest roadis (comp. 1.2)
forestry traffic on village roads/public roads                * strategic management plans to take account of potential
transport conflicts (comp. 1.2)
*  FMPs to include transport planis to prevent impacts on local
roads (comp. 1.1)
* contractual condlitions for harvestinig transport contractors
(comp. 1.1)
* consultation with affected people to identify any concerns
(comp. 3)
Economic      *  Increased accessibility to forests and markets for  +  H     * awareness raising of marketing opportunities (comp. 3)
forest products (including NTFPs) (contributing to            * develop links with other extension services (e.g. SAPARD)
increased employment and revenue potential)                     (comp. 2.4)
* evaluate local use of forest products to accommodate contintued
use and determine feasibility of developing local indlustries
based on these goods (comp. 2.4)
4 - 4 - ~~~..... ..                 1tw- wr 1 -HiW; Cifi. 
3. Establis'hen.of a Forestii S&     B      s  Iifoii4ti,i CenterF-,                            .       .. .S,,;
Environment   *  Increase in pollution (air, soil, water) resulting from  -   *  promote use of clean technology processes and techniques
unsustainable production processes and lack of                * support upgrade of old, inefficient and polluting equipmenit
controls on waste effluents from wood process                 *  training on clean technology processes, environmental pollution,
industries                                                       waste minimization, environmental malnagement systems etc.
* encourage development and uptake of environmental
management systems
Economic      *  Inability of private sector to access sufficient     *H advice and support on investment finance and business
investment capital to finance business development               management
* develop links with other investment sources (e.g. SAPARD)
Economic      *  Economic and employment benefits of establishing  +   H      * advice and support on uivestment finanice andi business
value-added industries                                           management
. develop links with other investimet sources (e.g. SAPARD)
ENVIRONMIENTAL RESOURCFS MANAGEMENT                                      101                                                 NIINIlS]R cr AGRIC ULTrURr, tool) AND FI oisis



lytipacts, Mitigation and Manalgeent eitActionisfor FDP Components
Imlpact                                                       +7ve MMagnitude
Comtiponientt     Receptor   Potential litipacts                               /-l'e  of Iipact _lMitigatioVEnilmancemn ent/Managemenit
4. Build Public Suppo rtfor Sustainable Forest Managemnent
Environment   *   Increased understand(inig andl implementationi of  +    H       *  sound understandinig of needsS, dlesires, expectations and
sustainable forest management                                      capabilities of public aboutit sustainiable forestry andl their
expectation of the forest as a resource
.  use of tools and techniqtues appropriate to socio-culttiral
structures
Social/       *   Increased acceptance of local people to government  +   H       *  early engagemilent of DoF, FIs and NFA with public/private
Institutional     departments                                                        sector
*  publicity of policies (esp. restitutiol), plans and timetables for
action
*  easy access to forest management and inforimiationi
*  raise profile (including roles and responsibilities) of forest
authorities
4 Project Managemtent                          . j '*';" 
Environment/ *    Incidence of negative environmental impacts as a        H       *  monitoring role to ensure maximum implemilentation of
Social/           result of lack of understanding and/or                             sustainable forest practices by forest authorities
Economic/        commitment to environmental sustainability                       *  support environmental training and capacity buildinig of forest
Institutional                                                                        authorities
*  support change management of forest authorities
*  promote leadership and ownership of FDP by forest autilhorities
to maximize long-term sustainability
*  develop corrective actioni procedtures if negative imnpacts of I-DP
iden tified
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGENIENT                                        102                                                   XfNIlTNSI o0 AcRICUL.URr. FrooI) - , SIS



5.4   SUPPORT INCREASED PRODUCrIVITY AND COMPETITIVENESS OF FOREST INDUSTRIES
(COMPONENT 3)
The Increased Productivity and Competitiveness component of the FDP aims to promote the
establishment of the Forest Business Information Center (ForsBIC), an independent business
development and advisory service, which will establish linkages and coordination within
the forest industry chain (i.e., silviculture, harvesting, transport, primary and secondary
processing), and provide assistance to wood and related forest industries, through review
and dissemination of information on new technologies, markets and prices, export and
hygiene requirements, product promotion and branding, opportunities for joint venture
partnerships, certified timber uses and markets, and the availability of grants, and credit etc.
This component focuses very much on the forest product industry, rather than on timber
supply or private forest owners.
5.4.1. Likely Environmetntal Impacts
If industrial development of the forest sector is encouraged without adequate safeguards for
the environment and people's health and safety, negative environmental and social impacts
could be the outcome. These potentially include:
 increased pollution of air and water and associated health impacts;
* risks of soil and groundwater contamination from inappropriate use and/or storage of
toxic materials;
* increased water abstraction and associated conflicts with other water users;
* increased traffic with associated noise, air pollution and accidents;
* inadequate measures to protect employee's safety at work;
* inappropriate waste disposal; and
* land use conflicts between other users.
Whilst the individual impact of one new wood processing industry on the environment may
be relatively small, its impacts could be more significant cumulatively (over a wider area
such as along a water course or within a restricted valley) and/or over time (e.g. if persistent
contamination occurs).
5.4.2. Mitigation Measures
These impacts will be avoided and/or considerably reduced through measures incorporated
into the execution of this component. Specifically,
* support provided by ForsBIC will be premised on the use of modem, clean and efficient
technologies and processes;
* advice and support for the uptake of clean technologies and processes will form the basis
of all component activities;
* advice and support for the development and implementation of an auditable
environmental management system (for example, using ISO 14001 standards as a basis)
will form the basis of all component activities;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT   103              MINITRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



* support will not be provided to businesses which are unable to demonstrate that
adequate safeguards have been put in place to avoid or minimize possible
environmental impacts;
*  activities proposed for ForsBIC support will be screened by the PCT to determine their
potential impact on the environment and where necessary further assessment
undertaken before support is approved. Screening criteria are outlined in Appenldix 8:
Sutggested Screening For Wood Processinig Itdlistries;
*  the PCI or suitably qualified expert should review any environmental assessments
undertaken for a business and ensure that all mitigation and safeguard measures are
undertaken by the appropriate authority (e.g. as a contract commitment by the
beneficiary if appropriate);
* project monitoring includes an examination of any potential environmental impacts.
Local planning requirements will play an important role in determining the environmental
and social acceptability of business development. Where a project activity has the potential
to impact negatively on the environment, the PCI must ensure that regulatory institutions
have the capacity to monitor environmental impacts and enforce any necessary regulations
where non-compliance is observed.
5.5   BUILDING PUBLIC SUPPORTFOR SUSTAINABLE FORESTMANAGEMENT (COMPONENT4)
The project is to provide resources for preparing and implementing a public awareness
strategy and campaign targeting key stakeholders, with particular emphasis on communities
living in forested areas; private forest owners; Forest Inspectorate staff; NFA; Government
decision makers, and other influential groups including Churches and NGOs with the
objective of disseminating information about the importance and value of sustainable forest
management. Implementation of the program will be supported by an inter-ministerial
committee on which the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Education, Waters and
Environmental Protection, Culture, Tourism and Public Administration will be represented.
Campaign strategies will include: educating mass media; providing public relations
guidance to Forest Inspectorate staff; developing educational and promotional materials for
use in schools and the mass media; organizing local education events; supporting APPR
awareness campaigns at the local level; involvement of environmental NGOs in educational
projects; and support for the PCT to develop their public relations capacity and inform key
decision makers of the status of project implementation. The public awareness campaign
will undertake regular assessments of stakeholder perceptions, which will be used to refine
the implementation of the campaign in line with changing requirements.
5.5.1. Likely Environmental Impacts
The objective of this component is to increase national awareness of the importance of
sustainable forest management. The approach taken is expected to have fundamentally
quite positive environmental impacts, hopefully reducing the extent to which private and
state forests are poorly managed. Performance monitoring of this component will depend on
the stakeholder assessments which are to be carried out during implementation.
There are no negative environmental or social impacts envisaged.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT  104              MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



5.5.2. Mitigation Measures
No mitigation measures are envisaged because no negative impacts are likely.
The component is intended to raise awareness about the importance and purpose for
sustainable forest management;* methods, tools and techniques for sustainable forestry
management; roles and responsibilities of forest authorities, the public and private business;
policies (especially restitution), FMPs and timetables for action, advice and assistance
available as part of the FDP, from forest authorities, other programs; opportunities for
private business development, securing investment finance and help and advice available.
The program will also ensure a sound understanding of needs, desires, expectations and
capabilities of public about sustainable forestry and their expectations of the forest as a
resource in developing the public awareness program. It will use tools and techniques
appropriate to socio-cultural structures and circumstances and will ensure early
involvement and engagement of forest authorities with the public
5.6   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING (COMPONENT 5)
Project management will be undertaken by the Project Coordination Team (PCT), which has
already established by MAFF under the Biodiversity Conservation and Management Project.
In addition to the existing staff, the FDP will finance a roads specialist and a PA consultant
to assist with procurement, management and supervision of the road and public awareness
components throughout the entire period of FDP implementation.
Monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be undertaken by the PCT, and will be
subject to periodic review by the Bank. The PCT will establish project monitoring and
evaluation procedures acceptable to the Bank during the first six months of implementation,
and will furnish the Bank with biannual project progress reports, together with work
programs inclusive of detailed monitoring indicators for the following six month period.
5.6.1. Likely Environmental Impacts
The PCT will have an obviously important role in managing the overall project, and in
particular, in implementing mitigating measures associated with other project components.
Investment in the PCT by itself, however, is not expected to yield any negative
environmental impacts.
5.6.2. Mitigation Measures
No mitigation measures are envisaged because no negative impacts are likely.
The PCT will regularly review the effectiveness of the FDP in terms of environmental
impacts and benefits and revise activities accordingly. It will support and promote:
environmental training and capacity building of forest authorities and change management
of forest authorities. It will promote leadership and ownership of FDP by forest authorities
to maximize long-term sustainability.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   105              MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



5.7   LIKELY SOCIAL IMPACTS OF PROJECT INVESTMENTS
5.7.1. Income and Employmen1t
The sustainable management of Romania's forests has a significant social dimension.
Development of the sector is expected to result in creation of employment opportunities.
The Roads component will generate local employment opportunities, but in the long-term,
the ongoing land restitution process is expected to affect hundreds of thousand households
and will provide new opportunities and responsibilities for this stakeholder group. The
ability of the private sector to maximize the economic and employment opportunities
afforded by the restitution process is however constrained by a number of factors,
specifically:
*  the ability to obtain financial loans for capital investments (e.g. for machinery or to
develop forest processing industries). The private sector currently lacks the collateral to
secure loans making investment in the sector very difficult; and
. knowledge and expertise in sustainable forest management, processing and other
secondary industries and business management to maximize sustainable income from
sector activities.
The FDP has been designed directly to address the lack of knowledge and expertise through
its support to forest owners associations (Sub-components lb, lc) and through ForSBIC
(Component 3). In addition, various instruments are already in place (viz. the World Bank's
$80 million Rural Finance Project) which should help to ease this constraint, and ForsBIC
will work with investors to link their interests with those of particular financing
instruments. Other donor programs such as the EU's SAPARD program, are also expected to
assist in providing capital to support private entrepreneurs develop forest sector industries.
The concern still remains however that SAPARD support is reliant upon obtaining 25
percent match funding from other sources. The ForSBIC sub-component of the FDP will
assist investors in identifying and securing matching funds and SAPARD assistance.
Conversely however, reorganization of the NFA (which is already underway) as part of
forest sector reforms will result in downsizing and loss of employment. Excess staff will
however most likely be transferred to the Forest Inspectorate and to private sector
employment.
5.7.2. Access to Resources
A potential impact of restitution is that existing informal rights of local people to enter the
forest areas and collect resources such as firewood and NTFPs may be constrained if private
owners restrict traditional access. Consultation and public awareness raising during the
restitution process will be an important mitigating factor here in addition to the role the
FDP's sub-components lb, lc could play in ensuring access rights are maintained and
collaboratively managed.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    106             MNNISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



5.7.3. Additionial Social Isstes
A social assessment was commissioned by the PPT based on field visits to forest areas and
consultation with forest stakeholders and users. It considers the impacts which planned
activities in the forest sector as a whole may have on the social fabric of forest communities.
As a result, the key issues of concern and the Social Assessment's recommendations relate
directly to the restitution process (rather than to the FDP) as follows:
*  differences in land values between areas under protection (e.g. protected forest) and
adjacent production forests and unfair distribution of values on restitution. Recomme?nds:
on restitution, swapping protected plots with those outside the protected forest areas;
*  delays in the forest restitution means rightful owners are unable to benefit from their
resource compounded by the belief that as restitution approaches, the NFA could
maximize their gains by extracting as much timber as possible before hand-over.
Recommends: A timetable for restitution should be prepared without further delay and
presented to affected parties showing clearly the actions and responsibilities which must
be undertaken prior to restitution;
*  at present, the ability of private individuals and companies to get investment capital is
still severely restricted. There is a belief that on restitution, restituted land could be used
as collateral for industrial investment (in forest product and agricultural processing for
example). Recommends: structures need to be developed to enable private owners to
obtain sufficient investment capital. The FDP could support private owners in finding
and accessing appropriate loan options including EU SAPARD funds;
*  local people currently feel alienated from the decision-making processes regarding
restitution and management of forest lands. This has resulted in a feeling of distrust
towards the authorities and diminishing confidence that restitution will be undertaken
in a fair and collaborative manner. Recommends: Restitution must be preceded by an
open and transparent process of consultation between MAFF, NFA and local authorities
and local people and businesses in affected areas. The Public Awareness component of
the FDP (Component 4) could also play a role in raising awareness and developing
ownership for the restitution process.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT      107               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



6.    PROJECT ALTERNATIVES
The following section examines the alternatives to the FDP which were considered and the
reasons why they were rejected during the process of project preparation. The information is
largely derived from the records of consultations during the National Forest Policy and
Strategy Process, the draft Project Appraisal Document (Spring 2001), and its revisions, and
discussions with the MAFF.
6.1   THE PROJECT IDENTIFICATION PROCESS AND THE NFPS PROCESS
Given the changes proposed in the structure of the forest sector as a result of the transition
from a centrally planned to a free market economy, a number of options for the project were
considered during project preparation.
The concept of the FDP was developed through an inclusive and participatory process in
Romania. During the preparation of the National Forest Policy and Strategy Process,
representatives of major stakeholders in the forestry sector participated in a series of
facilitated workshops. This process built consensus among stakeholders and identified the
main issues facing the sector, their underlying causes, the desired changes and finally the
necessary interventions to achieve the objectives identified.
A vision statement, strategy and rationale for reform of the forestry sector was then
developed by senior policy and technical experts within the former MAFF and
representatives of the major stakeholders through a number of participatory workshops.
Government facilitated an open, transparent and participatory process which led to
preparation of the National Forestry Policy and Strategy (NFPS) over a ten-month period
commencing in early 2000, which was approved by the Government in 2001. The strategic
choices for the development of the forest sector in Romania were made during the NFPS
process. The FDP is designed to support these strategic choices and its overall aim is to
maintain and improve environmentally sustainable management of state and private forests
and to increase their contribution to the national and rural economies.
6.2   STRENGTHENING THE STATUS QUO
During project identification, consideration was given simply to strengthening the status
quo. This was rejected because: (a) it would put at risk the sustainable management of over 2
million ha of restituted forests and would lead to over exploitation, loss of habitat,
oversupply of timber with a reduction in price, high quality timber going to low value use
and significant damage to the environment including possibly protected areas; (b) decrease
any chance for Romanian timber to be certified and gain access to high value export
markets; (c) do nothing to address the policy and sector reform issues identified.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  109              NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



6.3    OPTIONS FOR DEVELOPING THE FOREST ROAD NETWORK
Project identification considered three alternatives with respect to the development of the
forest road network: (a) no roading; (b) major roading, based on FAO recommendations for
upgrading 1,000 km of existing road and the construction of 1,500 km of new roads; and (c)
pilot infrastructure development aimed at identifying best practices and improving
efficiency in construction. Various derivatives of each of these options were also considered,
primarily in terms of the extent to which institutional investments would be made. A range
of alternatives were further explored and analyzed during project preparation.
The 'no roading' alternative would have meant that only limited public resources would be
available for roads rehabilitation and construction, and that additional expertise to prepare
and introduce environmentally sound roading practices would not be tapped.       The
development of a model of production under these circumstances would be highly
problematic, as it would have to incorporate international prices for roundwood, increasing
extraction costs, a reduction in silvicultural operations over time (because of inaccessibility),
as well as the higher (and non-costed) environmental costs of increasingly damaging
extraction methods and the soil erosion and siltation which would result. Policy variables
would also have to be incorporated into the model, to account for the impact of roads on the
delivery of rural services (where forest roads perform this function), as well as to take
account of the extent of the process of restitution.
The 'full roading' option was also considered, but the costs of this approach would have far
exceeded the resources available both from Government and from the World Bank. In
addition, heavy investments in roading would have been pointless in the absence of
substantive institutional investments, which are widely viewed to be critical for the sector to
be placed on to a sound footing.
At the sectoral level, this type of analysis is only cursory. Clearly, project investments by
themselves will not prevent overall losses in production. Likely outcomes will involve the
mobilization of other resources, and other policy variables and influences. One can only
speculate about these. Evaluating any roads option should consider the wider range of
actions and variables which are likely to take place in the sector. The economic analysis for
the project, reported on more fully elsewhere,47 made an effort to do this. This report
incorporates these findings in the following sections.
Evaluating the likely costs and benefits of multiple different approaches is highly
problematic largely because no single approach can be considered exogenously from other
investment approaches.     For example, an    investment in roads construction    and
rehabilitation by itself makes little sense in the absence of other investments in institutional
reform (though financial returns - as far as they could be estimated - would probably be
(47)  See Volume II to this Envirornental Assessment Update, Annex 2. lnitial Eco,ao,iic Analysis of the
Forestry Development Project, report prepared by Fortech, Dames & Moore (UK) and Project
Management (Ireland) for the Romania Forest Development Project, March 2001.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT      110                NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



quite good). Similarly, investments in institutional reform make little economic sense if the
productive capacity of the reformed institution is constrained by a lack of investment in
other areas. These choices are really not choices, but speculative outcomes. Underlying all
of this is the 'elephant in the living room': what happens as a result of restitution? What
would happen in the absence of any project investment? These types of questions formed
the basis for a more in-depth analysis of the likely impacts of the project in light of what
might happen if the statuts quo were maintained, and provided guidance in evaluating
alternative investment options.
6.4   THE 'VITHOUT PROJECT' SCENARIO
The most serious comprehensive of project alternatives relates to likely outcomes if the
changes supported by the project are not undertaken, i.e. the 'without project' scenario
which features prominently in the project's economic analysis. Despite the Romanian
Government's commitment to sustainable forest management, unsustainable exploitation of
forests, similar to that which occurred after the last phase of restitution in 1991 is anticipated
without the establishment of an effective supervisory and regulatory capacity. Under the
'without project' scenario, it is assumed that the Romanian Government is unable to commit
sufficient budgetary resources to establish a functioning Forest Inspectorate and existing
Government and NGO groups concerned with private forests would remain weak,
ineffective, uncoordinated, and isolated.
In the analysis of the 'without project' scenario, we consider first, the likely impact of the
first and fourth project components, which seek to 'Establish of Systems to Ensure
Sustainable Management of Private Forest Lands' (Component 1) and to 'Build Public
Support for Sustainable Forest Management' (Component 4). This analysis is based on
comparing the likely outcome of the restitution program with and without the resources the
Forestry Development Project will provide to the Department of Forests, the NFA, the new
forest owners through local and central forest owners associations, and the public awareness
campaign.
As we have indicated, experience with the 1991 restitution program provides guidance
about the likely impacts of what would happen without this assistance. In the analysis
which follows, where outcomes have been quantifiable, cost benefit analysis has been
undertaken. Non quantifiable benefits have been described qualitatively.
6.4.1. Likely impacts of restitution
Impacts of the 1991 restitution program
Box 3 summarizes the impacts of the 1991 restitution which, it is feared, could be repeated if
insufficient safeguards are in place. This scenario is completely unacceptable and as a result,
the FDP was developed to put in place steps to mitigate the impacts envisaged as a result of
restitution.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     1               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Box 3: Impacts of thze 1991 restitution offorest lands
Romanian rural communities are generally poor. Consequently, the receipt of title to one hectare of forest land
stocked with high volume, high quality timber, represents large windfall. For most recipients of forest land,
short-term economic concerns, such as the cost of basic living essentials (food, heating, health and education)
together with short-term fears concerning the possibility that the State might reclaim land or impose restrictions
on its use, prevailed over longer term national goals such as watershed or biodiversity protection. As such, when
land title was transferred from the NFA to individuals as part of the 1991-92 restitution program, trees were
harvested extremely rapidly as individuals sought to cash-in on the windfall.
In the Damuc Valley, Neamt Countv for example, less than 3 percent of the restituted forest land remained intact.
Forests were seriously over-harvested with significant negative environmental impacts. The Damuc river became
heavily loaded with silt resulting from erosion of the denuded slopes, and further polluted with sawdust and
machine oils as a result of the practice of using the river bed as a site for milling much of the timber.
In economic terms, the restitution program provided short-term cash injection into communities in the Damuc
Valley. A thriving saw-milling industry developed and local people were able to sell many of their saw logs for
processing. With no Government controls to enable the level of timber harvested from private lands to be
managed, together with access to this easy market and the lifting of export restrictions on wood further exposed
restituted forests to rapid exploitation.
While in the short-term this could be viewed as a positive economic impact, in the longer term, an opportunity
for sustained income generation has been lost. From a Total Economic Valuation perspective, the program had a
significant negative impact on the value of the nation's asset. For example, reduced game populations represent
an economic as well as an environmental and socio-economic loss, whilst the likely future landslides from
deforested areas could seriously impact downstream communities. During one week of rainstorms in June 1998
for example, deforestation in upper watersheds caused serious landslides and downstream flooding that resulted
in loss of 4,000 km of forest roads throughout Romania.
Perhaps a more disturbing aspect of the changes in the Dumac Valley is the impression of anarchy. NFA staff
provide accounts of threats as well as acts of physical violence against them as they have sought to prevent
illegal forest clearance. New forest owners care little about the forest code and do not understand how their
actions on private lands is any business of the State.
Source: World Bank. 1999. Roniania Forestry Sector Note: Status, Values and Needfor Reform. ECSSD
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Working Paper No. 18.
In 1999 the Forest Research and Management Institute (ICAS) undertook a forest inventory
of the forest that was restituted during the 1991 program48. This was then compared with the
situation prior to restitution for the same areas of forest. The pre-restitution data were
obtained from the 1992 forest management plans49. The inventory was extensive and
involved measuring over 500 plots in 35 counties.
Under sustainable forest management, over a large area such as this, the average standing
volume would be expected to remain more or less constant. Harvested removals are
equivalent to, or less than, the net growth of the forest. The annual allowable cut (AAC) is
established on the basis of keeping the standing volume of the forest constant or increasing
(48)   Institutul De Cercetari Si Amenajarie Silvice (ICAS)., 1999, Studiu Inventariere A Starii Actuale A
Paduilor Private, Privind Compozitia, Varsta, Starea Fitosanitara Si Posibilitatile De Recoltare De Masa
Lemnoasa.
(49)   Although the restitution program commenced in 1991, the 1992 management plans would have been
based on earlier fieldwork and therefore took no account of the initial restitution.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT            112                  NIINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



over time. If the forest had remained under state management the standing volume, would
have either increased or at least remained the same. Indeed, over time the standing volume
of state managed forests in Romania has increased. If the forest that had been cleared or over
cut in restituted forest had been restocked by either planting or natural regeneration it
would not have been classified as cleared in the ICAS survey but as forest in the soc-called
'first' age class.
The ICAS survey revealed that the percentage of the forest in the first age class on restituted
lands has dropped, demonstrating that the forests are not being re-established. Many
cleared areas will, however, have been restocked naturally. It is therefore reasonable to
assume that the effect of the forest in the 1991 restitution program is at least the difference
between the standing volume in 1992 and that in 1999.
The ICAS inventory data only presented standing volumes and the allowable cut for the
1999 situation and did not calculate similar figures for the 1992 situation. The comparison
between before and after restitution scenarios concentrated on other parameters such as
species composition, age class distribution, production class, canopy closure, phytosanitary
status, etc.
The area of restituted forest by year is presented as Table 14
Table 14: Area of Forest Cover of Forest Restituted in the 1991 Program, by Year
Area (ha) by Year
1992      1999   DIfference
Forested    337 432  325 893   11 539
Cleared         20    10575    10 555
Windthrow                986    - 986
Total       337 452  337 454      - 2
ICAS 1999
Table 14 shows that the forest cover dropped by approximately 11,500 ha or 3.4 percent.
Other statistics (age class distribution, species composition, production class distribution)
describing the forest in 1992 and 1999 are presented in Appendix 1 to the economic analysis.
The statistic that seems to have most significantly dropped in the intervening period is
canopy closure. Canopy closure class is an estimate of the crown coverage of the total area,
(i.e. a score of 0.1 means that tree crowns cover 10 percent of the total area). This is presented
as Table 15. This would indicate over cutting by the new forest owners which would
significantly reduce the productive capacity of the forest.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES IANAGEMENT         113               MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 15: Percentage distribution of Cantopy Closutre in Restituted Forest in 1992 and 1999
Canopy Closure (
Class    1992     1999
0.1 -0.2
0.3-0.4     1        4
0.5 - 0.6   3       20
0.7 - 0.8  62       62
0.9-1.0     34       14
Tota I     100      100
source: ICAS 1999
At first examination, these figures seem to indicate that the overall effects of the 1992
restitution have been fairly minor. However, this is after a period of seven years has elapsed.
In some areas initial clear cutting did occur, but these areas to a large extent have reforested
naturally. For example in Dolj county around 8,900 ha was clear felled after 1992, but now
the area deforested has reduced to 680 ha. This then shows up in a shift in the age class
distribution. At the same time due to less intensive management, the regenerating crop may
be patchy (decreased canopy closure) and species composition may be changing from more
valuable shade tolerant species such as beech and fir/spruce to less valuable light
demanding species such as birch.
To calculate the effects of restitution, it is necessary to see the effect on the standing volume
of trees in the restituted forest. This is the productive base of the forest and any reduction
can be linked to a reduction in future productive capacity.
If it is assumed that species, age classes and productivity classes are evenly distributed (a
fair assumption under the circumstances), then it is possible to derive the percentage
distributions by species, age and productivity class for restituted forests from the 1992
management plans (pre-restitution situation) and 1999 (seven to eight years post restitution)
and to consolidate the data.
In 1993 ICAS published the average standing volumes per ha of forest and also the average
growth rates by species, age class and productivity class. If it is assumed that these averages
apply to both 1992 and 1999 then it is possible to estimate the standing volumes in 1992 and
1999 by multiplying these per ha averages by the total forested area in 1992 and 199950 i.e.:
n)    *has2 = ni 3
11a 92
92       9
3
9ha9
(50)  This is a reasonable assumption as the averages are applied to both 1992 and 1999 scenarios.
ENVIRONMENTAL RE5oURCES MANAGEMENT        114               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



To ensure comparability between estimates it is considered more appropriate to use this
method of estimation for both before and after situations rather than using the ICAS
estimation for the 1999 scenario5l.
HIowever, canopy closure has not been taken into consideration. Canopy closure is directly
and proportionally related to standing volume. For example if a forest has a canopy closure
score of 0.5 it will have a standing volume of 50 percent of a forest with full canopy closure.
By taking mid-range values for the canopy closure classes shown in Table 15, the 1999
standing volume can be shown to only be 89 percent of the 1992 volume.
T he estimated standing volume in restituted forests in 1992 and 1999 including the
difference for canopy closure are presented in Table 16 and Table 17 respectively. By
subtracting the 1999 volumes from the 1992 volumes it is possible to show the effect of
restitution on the standing volume on the restituted forests.
T he estimated reduction in standing volume from 1992 to 1999 comes to just over
9.4 million m3 or the equivalent of just over 28 m3/ha.
Considering pricing data for the standing sale of timber for the period from 15 September
1999 to 30 April 2000,52 and if the mid range date is taken and the Consumer Price Index as
published by the Institutul National de Statistica si Studii Economice is applied, the
equivalent average price for January 2001 for final fellings is US$ 16.51 /m3 and for
thinnings US$ 7.63 /m3. If it is assumed that the timber over 60 years will fetch timber prices
and that timber between the ages of 20 and 60 will attain thinning prices then the difference
in 1999 and 1992 standing values is just under US$ 107 million.
However this figure is not the economic loss. Timber may have been sold or used by the
new private owners and under these circumstances would have had some economic benefit.
It is likely that there was some economic loss in this process as valuable timber quality trees
may have been cut up for firewood or veneer grade hardwoods used for simple
construction. However, as it is not possible to estimate these losses, a precautionary
approach has been adopted and they have not been included in the estimates of economic
loss. It is also probable that the timber that was sold would have been sold for less than the
market value due to the new private owners not having access to the best markets, to
sudden localized excess timber supply, and to unscrupulous timber merchants taking
advantage of the new owners. In this instance the economic loss of the new owner would be
the windfall profit of the timber buyer.
(51)   ICAS estimate the total standing volume in 1999 to be just greater than 57 million m3. The method used
here estimates the volume to be just under 57 million m3 or 99.6 percent of the ICAS estimate, before the
effect of canopy closure is taken into consideration.
(52)  ASFOR (2000). Bulletin Infonnativ Nr. 3. These data are averages across all species but are differentiated
between final fellings and thinnings.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        115               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 16: Derived Standing Volume of Restitited Forests in 1992 (tit3 X 103)
Spcies     Ste                                   Age Class
Class    0 - 20   21 *40    41 -60   61-80    81-100 101-120     121     Total
Beech                   24       102      151       131      71        9               487
11             81       686     1 159    1 613     481       67             3 488
III           217     1 794     3407     2 989    1428      194            10 029
IV             60       299      535       457     216       30             1 597
V               14       58      100        88       43       6               310
Subtotal      397     2 939     5 352    4 678    2 239     306        0    15 911
Oak      I              23        87      134       117       54       7               423
11            106       661      961       884   -415     - 57              3 083
III           262     1 774     2 738    2 452    1 204     171             8 602
IV             53       279      410       366      183      27             1 318
V               13       59       81        70       37       5               265
Subtotal      457     2 859     4 324    3 891    1 894     267        0   13 691
Hb       I              23        68       98        83      36        5               312
..            115       553      812       662     300-      38             2 480
III           298     1 634     2 394    1 946     881      116             7 268
IV             61       275      392       325     156       20             1 228
V               12       55       82        67      31        4               250
Subtotal      508     2 584     3 777    3 082    1 404     182        0   11538
Sb       I              21        36       50        38       19       2               166
. I .  11   .  134      328      396       328     .     __*163  19         1 367
III           231       958     1 152      959     458       52             3 811
IV             42       136      184       181       68       9               620
V                8       24       39        31       14       2               117
Subtotal      436     1 482     1 820    1 537      723      84        0    6 081
Sp       I               10       67        97       78       33       4               288
11             43       430      743       592      262      30             2 101
III           106     1 032     1 982     1 679     757      93              5 648
IV             23    - 139       278       238 _    ilf      15               804
V                4       21        43       44       22       3               137
,Subtotal      187     1 690    3142       2631    1184      145       0     8978
Fir      I                2       10        17       14        6        1               51
11               8       70      132       114       51       6               381
III            14       176      424       350   _ 153       18              1 135
IV              4        25       52        48       23       3               155
V                2        4        .      _  9 __1                             30
_______ Subtotal         29-     285       635      535      238      29        0     1 751
Con      I                5       17        33   _   24       10    -   1               91
11              15      100      256       185       81       10 lo           646
III            40       225      538       -483     217      26              1 529
IV               5       30        56    5  9        25        4               179
V                1        5         5       10        4        1                26
Subtotal        66      378       889      761      336      42        0     2 470
2079     12216    19 939    17114    8017     1054        0    60 420
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES IANAGEMENT             116                   MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FooD AND FORESTS



Table 17: Derived Stanidinig Volum"e of Restituited Forests ini 1999 (in3X1 3 0
Species   Site             _ _  _  _ _  _    Age Class_       _ __   _ _  _
____ Class    0 -20   21 -40   41 -60   61 -80  81 -100 101 -120  121    Total
Beech   I              2 1      89     132      114      6 1      7              425
II            59      499      842      736     349      49            2 533
III          189     1 564   2 970    2 605   1 245     169            8 741
IV            56      281      502      429     203      28            1 499
V             16       63      109       96      46       7             337
Subtotal 1   341     2 495   4 5541   3 980   1905      2601      0   13 536
Oak     I              20       76      117     102      47       6              369
11            77      480      698      642     302      41            2 239
III          229     1546    2 387    2 137   1049      149            7 498
IV            50      262      385      344     172      25            1 237
V             14       64.      88       77      40       6              289
___Subtotal      389    2 427    3 675 -  3 303   1611      227,      0   11 632
Hb      I              20 _    59       85       72      3 1      4              272
II        ~~~~83  402      590      481*    218      27      ~      1801
III          260     1424    2 087    1696      768     101            6 335
IV            57      258      368      305     147      18            1 152
V             13       60       89       73      34       4              272
____Subtotal     433     2 202    3 215    2 627   1195,    156       0    9 833
Sb      120                     35      48       37      19       2              161
II           108      264      319      265     131      15            1103
III          224      928     1 116     928     444      51  _   _     3 691
IV            44      142      191 ---189        71       9             647
V              9       29       47       37    17         2              142
Subtotal,    406     1398     1722,   1 457     682      79       0    5 743
Sp      18                      53 -~76          61      26       3              226
11            28      281      486      387     171      20            1 373
III           83      810     1 555    1317     594      73            4 431
IV            20      117      235      201      94      12              679
V              4       21       42       43      21       3              134
Subtotal     143     1282     2 393,   2 009    906     ill,      0    6 844
Fir     I1                       4        8       6       3                       22
II         ~~      ~~3 26  - 48      41      18l      2              138
III  --    ~~6     77      1-85     153     --6-7     8              495
IV             2       12     24         22      11       1               73
V               1       2        5  __  _ 5       3   _                   16
Subtotal      12      121      270,     228     101      12,      0      744
Con     I               5       19 __    36 __   26       11       1              99
1I            14       91      232      168      73       9              587
III       ~~~43    245      586     527     236      29             1666
IV             5 -     36 __    66       69      29       -4             210
V               1       7 __     7       13       5       1               35
- -Subtotal~~*    70     -~397     928      803     355      44       0    2 596
179     10 322   160      14 406   6 7571   80        0     0928J
The real economic loss, however, is the loss of future growth due to destruction of the
productive capacity of the forest. In some instances this would have been permanent where
the land becomes degraded and in others temporary as the forest may recover. It is also
likely that the fellings in the restituted area were uneven in that some areas were over felled
reducing growth and other areas under felled, which would also reduce growth after a few
years due to competition for light, nutrients and space, etc. amongst the trees.
The productive capacity for the 1992 situation is estimated by multiplying the average
growth figures by the area for each species, and productivity class and then summing the
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MIANAGEMENTr        117                 MINI5TRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FOREsTrs



results. (For example in 1992 the derived area of Beech in productivity class IV is just over
10,850 ha; the mean annual increment for this species and productivity class us 6 m3/ha/yr;
the annual growth for Beech productivity class IV in the restituted forest in 1992 therefore
was 6 x 10,850 = 65,100 m3. Summing the growth figures for all species and productivity
classes gives an annual growth of around 2.56 million m3/year for the whole restituted area
in 1992. If the same proportion of thinnings to final felling as was assumed in the standing
value calculation is assumed then this has a value of US$ 9.75 million at January 2001
equivalent prices. By following the same method for the 1999 scenario it is shown that by
1999 the productive capacity of the forest had reduced to 2.16 million m3/year with an
equivalent value of US$ 25.07 million / year. This gives an estimated economic loss of
US$ 4.68 million per year. These figures are, however, gross and include the costs of
management. Nevertheless, management costs are more dependent on area rather than
productivity53. Essentially the costs of management will be the same for both the 1992 and
1999 forests as the area is the same. Therefore the 1991 restitution program over a period of
seven years reduced the economic productivity of the forest by 403,000 m3/yr total or
1.19 m3/ha/year. At January 2001 prices this is the equivalent of US$ 4.68 million per year
total or US$ 13.87 /ha/ year.
It is likely that this reduction in fact was higher in the early years of restitution, as many new
owners would want to make a quick profit from their newly acquired assets. It is also likely
that this figure has reduced as some of the forest naturally recovers.
This analysis is based entirely on the productive commercial timber capacity of the forest.
The forest has many additional benefits that are also likely to have been impacted. These
include such items as the production of non timber forest products, the recreational,
educational and scientific use of the forests and indirect benefits of prevention of erosion
control, protection of watersheds and non use values such as the existence values of
biodiversity. Without major research it is not possible to estimate these values. For example
production of wild forest fruits may have increased in some areas where there has been a
moderate opening of the canopy. In other areas the production may have ceased completely
due to over cutting and resulting degradation. Similarly some areas may have lost forest
cover in areas of steep terrain and be subject to erosion causing loss of soil, downstream
flooding and other associated losses. This would have impacts of much greater significance
than the simple loss of forest cover. For example, it was estimated in 199854, that the indirect
benefits of forest cover ranged from US$ 356 to US$ 647 /ha/year. If it is assumed that all
the area classified as cleared in 1999 (11,539 ha) was at the lower end of the range, this
would have an additional reduction in the value of services provided by the forest of over
US$ 4.1 million/year.
(53)  It can be seen that management plans for the same area need to be prepared, and that tending
operations and harvesting operations will be the same etc. The only real difference would be that in the
1999 situation costs may be increased to allow for re-establishing forest in degraded areas.
(54)  World Bank (1999). Ibid.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT      118                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



6.4.2. Establishing Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest Lanlds
aid Building Pu1blic Suipportfor Sustainiable Forest Management: Antalysis of Componients 1
atnd 4
Components 1 and 4 of the FDP are aimed at ensuring that the forest is managed sustainably
during and post restitution. To analyze the impact of the FDP, it is necessary to estimate
what will happen if the FDP is not implemented. This is the 'without project' scenario. For
both scenarios though it is necessary to predict the speed and size of the current restitution
program.
The restitutioni progran
Under Law 1/2000, nearly 3 million ha of forest have been claimed by former forest owners.
The claims by type of ownership are presented as Table 18.
Table 18: Area of Forest Claimed by Type of Ownership under Law 1/2000
Type ot Ownership        Area (ha)
Private individuals                900 961
Communities/undivided private Ownership  725 857
Churches, education insbitubons     65407
Municipalities, towns, communes   1 280 763
Expatriate Romanians                15075
Total                             2988063
Of this 161 thousand ha had already been restituted by mid-2001.
To estimate the speed and area of restitution a scenario has been developed based on the
following assumptions:
* 95 percent of the forest claimed by municipalities, towns, communes, churches and
education institutions will be approved and 90 percent will be approved within the first
two years;
* For communities and undivided private ownership 80 percent will be eventually
approved and 40 percent will be approved during the first 2 years;
* For private individuals a total of 75 percent of the claims will be approved, but only 25
percent of the claims will be approved in the first two years; and,
* The whole process will take eight years to complete.
This gives a total area to be restituted of 2.55 million ha or 75 percent of the total area
claimed. This scenario is presented graphically as Figure 5.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsoURCES MANAGEMENT       119               MINsTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figutre 5: Graphl showvinig predicted area restitutted by year and type of ownership
3000                       ___
2 500 -                                                   J
2 000
0
-  1 500
x                                                              -    Private Individuals
1 000         /                                                  Communties/undivided private
ow nership
iChurches. education institutions
500
Ox- Municipalities, towns, co Trnunes
0     1     2     3  Years    5     6     7    8    -     Total
source: derived
This scenario is considered likely because:
*   Once claims have been approved at the local and county levels, physical handing over of
the forest should proceed rapidly;
*   Local community, church and other institution claims are likely to be approved quickly
because the title and ownership details are well documented; and,
*   For private and joint claims, a longer period of verification will be required and it is
more likely in these cases that claims will be rejected due to a lack of evidence.
However, as this scenario is fairly rapid, a second scenario has been developed which may
be more prudent for the purposes of this analysis.
Under the second scenario, it has been assumed that the pace of restitution is slower and
that the final percentage of the total claimed area restituted drops to 75 percent (as opposed
to 85 percent). A comparison of the two scenarios is presented graphically in Figure 6.
Withzout thze project
Without the project the following assumptions are made:
(1)    The new    restitution program   will have the same associated loss of forest
production as the 1991 program, with the loss of production starting already in
the first year for individual forest owners. This is reasonable as the calculated
losses from the 1991 restitution estimate the losses after eight years. In the early
years the losses would have been greater with the forest subsequently recovering
partially. With current and proposed low level of resources to be provided to the
hnspectorate and the more or less non functioning state of the Association of
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          120                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Private Forest Owners it is likely that these organizations will only have a
marginal effect on the impact of restitution.
Figure 6: Comparisont of the Restitution Scenarios, Total Area Restituted by Year
3 000
2 500 -
o  2 000-
o                                             --Prudent'
-  1500
x                                     ~~~~~~~~~Likely
-  1000
500       -7
0,
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Years
(2)   The municipal, town, communal, church and institutional owners will be more
responsible than the individual owners will. Most of the forest restituted in 1991
was restituted to individual forest owners. It has therefore been assumed that in
this case the communal owners forest will loose only a quarter of the equivalent
loss of the 1991 program. It is also more likely that these owners will try to seek
professional help to manage their forests.55
(3)    By definition of the without project scenario the effect the losses of the largely
unregulated private sector will continue indefinitely. The Inspectorate will not be
functional without the support of the FDP and there are no other projects to
support the establishment of management and control mechanisms for private
sector forestry.].
The loss in production of timber without the project for the likely restitution scenario is
presented as Table 19.
Table 19: Volume of Annual Loss in Production - Without Project, Likely Restitutio,i
Scenario
.  OwnetrshipTypo ,',:.,  .:i  -ALoss y  -n Production  Year Wthout Project LSk 6 ce*rio (M3 S1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   0  '1'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~2 _ _3   _ 4 _  5 6    7     8
Private Individuals                      1    137    273    383    474     561    647    734    820
Communities/undivided private ownership  18   173    347    416    474     529    584    638    693
Churches, education instutions  9_                    18     18      18     18     18  . 18      19
Municipalibtes, towns, communes        43     172    344    347    350     354    357    360    363
Total                                  62     491    982   1 164  1 316  1 461   1 606  1 751  1 895
(55)   This is reasonable as without the project there will be insufficient resources to provide the necessary
support to these new owners and they are liable to under manage the forest with resulting loss in
production. The loss in production assumed here is only 0.3 m3/ha/year.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           121                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



If the estimated standing value of the crop is then applied to this table then economic losses,
shown in Table 20, can be derived.
Table 20: Valtue of Annul(al Loss in Production - Without Project, Likely Restitution
Scenario
Ownership Type             Value of Annual Loss by Year Without Project Ukely Scenario (US $ x i 0)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~ ~~ ~~0 I I  2  3      4       5      6       7      8
Private Individuals                     12   1 588   3 177  4 448   5 507  6 513  7 519   8 525  9 531
Communities/undivided private ownership  209  2 014  4 028  4 833   5 505  6 142   6 780  7418   8056
Churches, educabon insttubons             3    102    204     206    208     210    212    214     215
Municipalities, towns, communes        501   1 999   3998   4035    4072   4 109  4 146   4 183  4220
Total                                   726   5 703  11 406  13 522  15 291  16 974  18 656  20 339  22 022
This shows, using fairly conservative assumptions, that the cost of proceeding with
restitution without taking any precautionary steps, in terms of the loss of timber production
alone, would be around US$ 22 million per year in real terms if it is assumed that all the
production would be utilized.
This assessment excludes the loss of Indirect forest values. If the total area cleared after 8
years is in the same proportion as the area cleared in the 1991 program this would have an
additional annual cost of US$ 31 million to US$ 56 million per year.
The estimated loss in timber production without the project under a more prudent
restitution scenario is presented as Table 21. This shows that the annual loss in production is
still 1.6 million m3/year at the end of year 8.
Table 21: Volume of Annual Loss in Production - Without Project, Prudent Restitution
Scenario
Ownership Type            Loss I yr in Production by Year Without Project Prudent Scenario (M3 x i 0o)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~ ~~ ~~~~ o  1   2   3      4       5      6       7  1   8
Private Individuals                       1     73    146     219     306    394    481     569    656
Communities/undivided private ownership  18     92     185    277     335    392    449     506     563
Churches, education institutions          0      6      11     17      17     17      17     17      18
Municipalities, towns, communes    .     43    109    218     327    330     334    337     341    344
Total                                    62    280     560    840     988   1 136  1 285   1 433  1 581
The value of the loss of this production is shown in Table 22.
Table 22: Value of Annual Loss in Production - Without Project, Likely Restitution
Scenario
Ownership Type            ValuO   AnnualLoss by Year Wthout Project Prudent Scenarlo (U S $x 1O )
o0    1 1      2      3       4       5      6      7       8
Private Individuals                      12    847   1694    2542   3558    4575   5591    6608   7625
Communities/undivided pnvate ownership  209'  10741  2148-   3222   3887    4551   5216    5881   6545
Churches,educationinsbtutions             3     65     129     194    196     198    200    202     204
Municipaities, towns, communes          501 | 1 266 | 2532   3798   3838 | 3878    3918    3958   3998
[Total                                   726 1 3252 1 6 504 1 9755  11479 I 13202  14925 1 16648 1 18372
Even    allowing   for   a   prudent    restitution  scenario  the    cost  still  amounts    to
US$ 18.4 million / year after year
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT           122                  NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Witli the project
It is assumed that the FDP will reduce economic losses by supporting new forest owners,
through the supervision of management planning and forest operations, and the public
awareness campaign. The FDP will reduce the loss of production by at least 50 percent in the
first two years and this reduction will increase evenly with time to 80 percent by year six
and 95 percent by year 8. These assumptions are reasonable, given that the support is
pragmatic and in line with the requirements of the sector and that the assumed reduction in
loss is very small when taken in the context of the total area restituted. In other countries,
private sector managed forests (where they have the appropriate support) are frequently
more productive., in terms of sustainable timber production, than state managed forests.
The reduced volume and value of the losses for the likely restitution scenario with the
project are presented as Table 23 and Table 24 respectively.
Table 23: Volume of Annual Loss in Production - With Project, Likely Restitution Scenario
Ownership Type             Loss / yr In Production by Year Wlth Project Likely Scenario (M3 x 103)
.__ _ _ _ _   0  1  2     3     -4      5      6      7      8
Private Individuals                    1    103    137    163    166    154    129    92     41
Communities/undivided pnvate ownership __ 18  130  173    177 .   166   145    117    80     35
Churches, educabon institutions        0        .7   9-     8      6 -. 6 5 .    4      2      1
Municipalities, towns, communes       43    129    172    148    1       97     7     45      18
Total                                 62    368    491    495    461    402    321    219     95
Table 24: Value of Annual Loss in Production - With Project, Likely Restitution Scenario
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0T                   1      2     ,3' -  .4 ,  .6              7_
Private Individuals                   12   1 191  1 588  1 890  1 927  1 791  1 504  1 066   477
Com munitestundivided -pri'va-te ow-ner'shi-p 0_ 2--09  I 51 0  2 014  6 054i -1 927  -1 689  1 356  927  403
Churches, education insttutions        3     77    102     88     73     58     42     27     11
Municipalibies; towns. comrmunes     501   1 499  1 99   1 715  1 425  113     829    523    211
Total                                726   4 277  5 703  5 747  5 352  4 668  3 731  2 542  1 101
The reduced volume and value of the losses for the prudent restitution scenario with the
project are presented as Table 25and Table 26respectivelv.
Table 25: Volume of Annual Loss in Production - With Project, Prudent Restitution
Scenario
Ownership Type         ~ . . ' - r  :.Loss / yr.ln Production by Year.Wlth ProJect Prudent Scenario (M3X 103
. ',                 ........       .   ....    . -,:'ffi' .<*..  I. 0. | .2.. 1 J-3  4  5  6  7  8
Private Individuals                    1     55     73     93    107    108     96     71     33
Communiies/undividedprivateownership  18     69-    92    118    117    108     90     63     28
Churches, educaton insttutons          0      4      6      7    - 6      5      3     - 2     1
Municipa ities,towns, communes        43     82    109   - 139   116     92     67     43     17
Total                                 62    210    280    357_   346    312    257    179     79
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT        123                MtINTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 26: Value of Annual Loss in Production - With Project, Prudent Restittution Scenario
Ownership Type            Value of Annual Loss by Year With Project Prudent Scenario (US $ x I O3)
I  _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _     0      1      2      3      4      5      6       7      8
PriVate IndiViduals                    12    635    847   1 080  1 245  1 258  1 118    826    381
Communities/undivided private ownership  209  806  1 074  1 369  1 360  1 252 1 043     735    327
Churches, eduCation insttubtons         3     48     65     82     69      54     40     25     10
Municipalities,towns,communes         501    949   1266   1 614  1343   1 066    784    495    200
Total                             -   726   2 439  3 252  4146   4 018  3 631  2 985  2 081    919
Beniefits of Comnponents I and 4
The benefit of the project can be seen as being the difference between the without and with
project scenarios. This is presented as Table 27 for the likely restitution scenario.
Table 27: Gross Economic Benefit of the Project - Likely Restitution Scenario
Summary of Losses                 Value of Annual Loss by Year Ukely Scenario (US $ x 10)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ___~ ~ ~ ~ 1  2  1 3  1 4  1  5 1    6  1   78
Without project                       726   5 703 11 406 13 522 15 291  16 9741 18 656 20 339 22022
With project                          726  4 277   5 703  5 747  5 352  4 668| 3731   2542    1101
Project Benefit                         0   1 426  5 703  7 775  9939  123061 14925 17797 20920
Table 28: Gross Economic Benefit of the Project - Prudent Restitution Scenario
Summary of Losses                Value of Annual lOsS by Year Prudent Scenario (US S x Io3) _
I  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _   _   _0   1 1    2      3      4       5      6      7      a
Without project                       726   3 252D 6 504  9 755 11 479' 13 2021 14 925' 16 648 18 372
With project                          726   2 439  3 252  4 146  4 018  3 6311  2 985  2 081   919
|Project Benefit                        0    813   3 252  5 609  7 461  9 5711 11 940  14 567  17 453
Table 27 and Table 28 show     that the project has significant benefits for both restitution
scenarios. However these benefits are gross and in order to estimate the net benefits, it is
necessary to deduct the costs to give a net cash flow.
A summary of project costs for the FDP less the road component and the Business
Development Service is presented as Table 29.56
(56)   Note that the expenditure includes the physical contingencies but excludes the price contingencies. The
price contingencies are applied to the costs of a project to account for inflation, but economic analysis is
undertaken in present day values, with all costs and benefits being discounted to present day terms.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          124                 MiNtSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



7Table 29: Projected Cash Flow For FDP less Roads and Busintess Developmeit Componetits
r  Expendtture                          US $ x 10 3byYear  .
1      2     3      4     5      6      7     8      9     10
Investment     4 231  2 317  1 020   613   520     29  .
Recurrent        206   557    657    657   657    657   657    657    657   657
Total              4437   2873  1 676  1270   1177   686    6571   657   657    657
Benefits
Likelyscenario     0  1426   5 703  7 775  9 939 12 306 14 925 17 797 20 920 20 920
Prudent scenario   0   813   3 252  5 609  7 461  9 571 11 940 14 567 17 453 17 453
Cash Flow
Likelyscenario  -4437 -1447  4027  6506   8762 11 620 14269 17 140 20264 20264
Prudentscenario  -4 437 -2060b1 576  4 340  6 284  8 886 11 284 13 911 16 796 16 796
The economic analysis of these cash flows gives the results shown in Table 30.
Table 30: Net Present Value at a Cost of Capital of 12 percent and the Econotmic ltiternal
Rate of Return over 17 year period (the loan period)
. NPV @    _
____________ -12%
_ _._US__ _ . $ X   ,.0l
Likely scenano      69 729     77%
Prudent scenario    53 211     60%
This analysis clearly shows that these components of the FDP will yield significant benefits.
One reason for high rate of return is because the benefits stem from the prevention of
damage rather than the usual investment in a productive process. For example the
installation of traffic signals at a junction notorious for accidents could generate income
many times its costs in the first year simply by preventing accidents that otherwise would
have occurred.
6.4.3. Mitigation of the Consequences of Restitution on Managemenit of State Forest
Lands: Analysis of Componetnt 2
Supporting reform and strategic developmentt of tihe NFA
FDP is to support strategic reform of the NFA through the provision of technical assistance
for a needs assessment and for the development of a plan, in year one, followed by
additional support to implement the recommended course of action. Prior to project
implementation, the NFA will (a) initiate an internal review of operational efficiency and
opportunities for cost saving across the whole spectrum of its activities, identifying and
prioritizing areas and activities where improvements are possible, and (b) research how
change has been undertaken in forest administrations in similar European countries, and
identify relevant experience and lessons learned. The review and reform process will be
advised by a consultative committee to be established by NFA and composed of senior
technical level staff from NFA, MAFF, the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, and of
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT      125               N1INCTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Environment and Waters, the association of private forest owners (APPR), and the
association of forest industries (ASFOR).
The project will finance technical assistance to enable MAFF to assist NFA to review and
analyze its financial performance, accounting systems, silvicultural operations, public
purpose activities, non-core activities, sales and marketing systems, capacity to provide
services to private forest owners, and its current role/functions within the context of present
institutional/legal/policy framework; and, human resource capacity. This will lead to a
review of different options for NFA's future role and to formulate and agree a detailed,
phased, and costed plan for its strategic development.
In addition, resources will be used to develop an objective and auditable model for the
determination of reserve prices for NFA's competitive timber sales. The development of a
pricing system will be partly informed by the results of the proposed diagnostic on
corruption and governance in the forest sector.
In conjunction with these steps, the project will provide the resources to develop and cost an
information systems strategy that will support the chosen development option and allow for
an interface with the FMIMS being developed for the DoF. This will entail a review and
analysis of the current and planned IT system in NFA; development of applications,
technical and data strategies; identify the requirements for data transfer between FMIMS
and NFA; and, provide a costed and phased plan for implementation.
Following development of the plan for reform and development of NFA, the project will
support its implementation by: providing training to NFA staff and technical assistance to
support the proposed strategic development; providing additional technical assistance to
support the upgrade of the IT system and to assist in the provision of new accounting
software; developing the interface between the NFA IT system and the FMIMS; and
providing logistical support in terms of computers, field equipment, GIS software and
vehicles to NFA's protected area management function.
The benefits of this sub-component are likely to include:
* the probable increased return to the state for the sale of its timber resources;
* cost reductions and increased operational efficiency of the NFA; and,
* the continued management of protection forest and other public goods services.
At this stage it is not possible to quantify these benefits, although they are likely to be
substantial.
Forest roads and infrastructure relabilitation and construction
The costs and benefits of the forest roads subcomponent were evaluated for each of 91 sub-
projects originally identified, and then these were aggregated to determine the likely costs
and benefits of the entire sub-component. These with/without project costs and benefits are
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT   126               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



taken to be indicative, rather than conclusive, because of the fact that sub-projects will be
dropped and added during project implementation and as a result of subsequent screening
and rescreening.
For the purposes of this Assessment, the costs and benefits of one road sub-project are
worked out here, simply as an example of how        these were evaluated at the micro-level,
before aggregation into the overall analysis. The example used here is for the proposed
reconstruction and repair of 8.5 Km of the Valea Ruzii forest road in the Alba lulia Forest
District in Alba County. Costs were estimated at 3.6 billion Lei on 01 January 2001. At an
exchange rate of Lei 25,930 to the US dollar this is the equivalent of US$ 293,000. The road
serves an area of 577 ha which from the management plan has a sustained yield production
of 840 m3/annum. This is a mixed beech and spruce forest.
It is important to point out that production will not actually increase as a result of roads
rehabilitation or construction, because the amount of timber harvested is a function only of
what is possible in the management plan - which is the sustained yield production.
To assess the benefits of constructing a forest road, two scenarios were developed, i.e. what
would happen if the road were not constructed (without road scenario) and what would
happen if the road were constructed (with road scenario).
Under present conditions in Valea Ruzii the following costs are incurred to harvest timber
from the forest. In the absence of a proper road it is necessary bulldoze a total of 9 km of
skid trails.
Table 31: Extraction Costs Without the Road, Valea Ruzii
btem                      Q,    y    Unts
Annual production             840 m.
Average Extraction Costs      5.40 $/m 3/km
Average Extraction Distance    6 3 km
Distance of skid trails Require  9 km
Cost of skid trail construction  8000 /
Cost of skid trail maintenance  250 S/km
source: Forest Management Plan; Average data from harvesting companies and forest road design document
Note: average extraction distance is the average distance skidded per cubic meter of logs. The distance of the skid trails is the
length of skid trails that need to be constructed. It can be seen that the logs located near the road have an extraction distance
of less than the logs further found away, even though the skid trail needs to constructed out to the far edge of the compartment.
It would not be necessary to construct 9 km of skid trails all at one time. If it is assumed that
the forest would, on average, be entered once every ten years for thinning or felling
operations, then one tenth of the forest would require skid trail access each year, until the
eleventh year when the old skid trails can be reused. The maintenance of the skid trails will
similarly increase each year until the tenth year when the complete 9 km will require
maintenance annually. This cost will then continue in perpetuity under this scenario.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT            127                 MINLSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Once the timber has been brought to the roadside it has to be hauled by lorry to the sawmill.
Most of the sawmills that purchase timber from this forest are on average 35 km from the
current loading area.
Current average hauling costs (taken as the mean of the costs reported by 5 harvesting
companies) come to USS 0.10 /ton/km. This gives the costs estimated for the first eleven
years shown in Table 32. In subsequent years the costs will be the same as for year 11.
Table 32: Estimiated Extraction anid Haulage Costs by Year Without the Road, Valea Rutzii
(US$$)
Operation                                      -    Year         ___     __
i1     2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9     10     11
Extraction             28 577 28 577 28 577 28 577 28 577 28 577 28 577 28 577 28 577 28 577 28 577
Skid trail construction'  7 200  7 200  7 200  7 200  7 200  7 200  7 200  7 200  7 200  7 200   0
Skid trail maintenance      0    225    450    675   900   1 125  1 350  1 575  1 800  2 025  2 250
Haulage.                2 940  2 940  2 940  2 940  2 940  2 940  2 940  2 940 2 940   2 940  2 940
Total                  38 717 38 942 39 167 39 392 39 617 39 842 40 067 40 292 40 517 40 742 33 767
source: derived
This gives an average haulage and extraction cost in year 1 of US$ 46 /m3, which, although
high, is not unreasonable by international standards.
Once the road has been constructed, the costs of extraction are significantly reduced. These
costs are shown in Table 33.
Table 33: Extraction Costs With the Road, Valea Ruzii
Item                      Quantiy   Units
Annual production             840 m
Average Extraction Costs /    5.40 $1m3/km
Average Extraction Distance    0.3 km
Distance of skid trails Require  0.5 km_=
Costofskid trail construction  8000 $/km
Cost of skid trail maintenance  250 S/km
source: forest management plan, average data from harvesting companies and forest road design document.
Note: / Although intuibvely it would seem that the unit rate for extraction should increase for shorter length extraction as more
time is spent loading and unloading the logs, work study research has shown that longer extraction distances have many more
problems due to repeated use of the same track. In this instance it has therefore been assumed that the extraction costs
remain constant.
The road is not constructed instantly in the first year but over a number of years. In the first
year, no road is built, as the first year is needed to refine the design. The extraction costs in
the first year are the same therefore as the extraction costs if no road is built.
Actual construction takes place over the subsequent two to four years (depending on the
individual sub-project). It has been assumed that the road is used as it is made or repaired.
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT          128                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



For example, if by the end of the second year, 30 percent of the road has been constructed
then the benefits of reduced extraction costs will begin in that year proportional to the
amount of road constructed. If at the end of the second year, 30 percent of the road is
complete, then it has been assumed that there is an average benefit of 15 percent of the new
road's length throughout the year. The funding and assumed annual average completed
road is for the example road is presented in Table 34.
Table 34: Investmtent and average completion of the road by year, Valea Ruzii
Year              Total
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~ ~~1  2  3  4    5   _   _
lnvestment (US$ x 1 000)  7.71 123.41 119.55  42.42  0.00 293.10
Completed Road (km)     0   1.84  5.46  7.87  8.50  8.50
source: derived
Similarly in the first year there is still the need to construct skidding trails and to undertake
all the other forest operations while the road is being constructed. It is assumed that the cost
figures without the road reduce proportionally with amount of road constructed until they
reach the figures in Table 33. The proportional decline in extraction costs are included in
Table 34.
Once logs have been brought to the roadside they have to be taken by road transport to the
mill. Once the road has been constructed these costs will increase marginally as the haulage
distance to the mill will have increased by the length of the new road. Unit prices have been
assumed to remain the same.
This gives the harvesting costs by year as shown in Table 35. The figures remain constant
after year 11.
Table 35: Estimated Extraction and Haulage Costs by Year With the Road, Valea Ruzii
(US$)
Year__              _ __        _ _
|   Operatlon .  -1~. -"2 *4          - 'S     6     7 1 .8      9     10    11
xExtraction         28 577 22 692 11 107  3 384  1 361  1 361  1 361  1 361  1 361 1 361  1 361
Skid trail construction  7 200 4 577  1 272  438  400  400  400  400   400   400     0
Skid trail maintenance  0    225   404   493   521   533   533   533   533   533    533
Haulage              2 940  3 013 3 156  3 251  3276  3 276  3 276  3 276  3 276  3 276  3 276
Road Maintenance        0    919 2 728  3 934  4250  4 250 4 250 4 250 4 250 4 250 4 250
Total                38 717 31 426 18 667 11 499  9 808  9 820  9 820 9 820  9 820  9 820 9 420
Source: derived
By year eleven the average haulage and extraction costs have reduced from US$ 46 / m3 to
US$ 11 / m3 . Clearly this is a significant saving, a significant portion of which will be
transferred to the NFA through increased prices paid for standing sales.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT     129               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



The estimated cost of this example road sub-project comes to US$ 293,096.00. This is spread
over four years. The cost by year is given in Table 19.
The net benefit of the road is therefore the saving in reduced extraction and haulage costs
less the cost of the investment. This gives the net cash flow as shown in Table 36. After the
eleventh year the net undiscounted benefit and cash flow remains constant at US$ 24.3
thousand per year.
Table 36: Cas1t Flowforfirst Eleven Years, Valea Ruzii
Cost                           ___US         1000 bY Year
COSt_________ _          _   _1  2   3   4  5   t  6  7     .8  |  9     10    11
Without road         38.7  38.9   39.2  39.4   39.6  39.8   40.1   40.3  40.5   40.7  33.8
With road            38.7  31.4   18.7  11.5    9.8    9.8   9.8    9.8   9.8    9.8   9.4
benefit              0.0    7.5   20.5  27.9   29.8  30.0   30.2   30.5  30.7   30.9  24.3
Construction cost    7.7  123.4  119.6  42.4    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
Net cash flow       - 7.7 - 115.9 - 99.11  14.5  29.8  30.0  30.2  30.5  30.7   30.9  24.3
Discounted @ 12%    - 7.7 - 103.5 - 79.0 - 10.3  18.9  17.0  15.3  13.8  12.4   11.2   7.8
The cost of capital also has to be taken into consideration. For example if US$ 7.7 thousand is
invested today at an annual interest rate of 12 percent, after ten years have passed it will be
worth US$ 22.9 thousand. Therefore US$ 22.9 thousand in year ten is only worth US$ 7.7
thousand in present day terms. If the cash flow is then projected into the future and the
sums added, this derives the net present value (NPV) of the project. With the cost of capital
set at 12 percent this particular road project has an NPV of US$ -35,352 over a project life of
50 years. The internal rate of return is 9.7 percent.
These are gross. costs and include the costs of VAT. If the VAT is removed the NPV rises to
US$ -554 with a cost of capital set at 12 percent over a project life of 50 years. The IRR is
11.96 percent.
The World Bank has suggested that the EIRR should be around 12 percent. Clearly in the
case of this particular roading sub-project in Valea Ruzii, it would be viewed as marginal as
to whether the project should proceed or not.
Costs and benefits were evaluated in this manner for each of the 91 sub-projects originally
identified during project preparation. When the results are aggregated, the roading sub-
component as a whole has an NPV of just under US$ 14 million over a 50 year period at a
cost of capital of 12 percent. The EIRR is 24 percent. This analysis is entirely based on the
assumption that benefits come from reducing extraction costs, rather than from increased
harvesting, which would not be possible in any event under the existing forest management
plan process. The rate of return for individual road sub-projects is reflected in the table in
Appendix 5: Preliminanr list of roads rehabilitation and construction sub-projects and maps.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT        130                MINtSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



In evaluating this sub-component, then, because of the clear needs for a revived forest road
network, Government placed a priority on developing investments in these areas. Although
a major new road network is needed in the long-term, two concerns mitigated against
financing a larger roads component. Firstly, in the face of the restitution program, the
viability of the roads program had to be placed in the framework of a wider institutional
reform effort. With a declining resource base under the control of the NFA, the financial
viability of forest management and protection had to be strengthened through careful
investments which linked institutional reforms with their financial viability. A large
investment program would likely have overwhelmed any effort at institutional reform.
Secondly, because of the lack of experience in developing standards and approaches toward
environmentally sound roads rehabilitation and construction, a pilot approach which
focused on developing and implementing best practices would set important precedents.
As a pilot activity, the roads identified for construction or rehabilitation represent a very
small fraction of the total length of forest roads or associated harvesting and extraction
infrastructure in Romania. Harvesting and extraction infrastructure, at the end of the year
2000, comprised a total of 41,546 km of roads and 65 km of railway. Roads targeted for new
construction by the project would increase the total road length by less than 2 tenths of one
percent. Infrastructure planned for rehabilitation constitutes 1.2 percent of the total. By any
standard, the fact that the project is investing in such a small percentage of the overall total
(and indeed, in the face of the enormous needs for construction and rehabilitation)
demonstrates that it constitutes a pilot operation. As a pilot operation, the project recognizes
the need for good Monitoring and Evaluation which can provide information about the
successes and failures of the pilots.
6.4.4. Support for Increased Productivity and Competitiveness of Forest Industries:
Analysis of Component 3
The inability of small and medium sized wood harvesting and processing firms to raise
loans for capital investment was identified as a significant blockage to future development
in the participatory process of project identification. During preparation, Government
considered establishing a separate facility for investing in small and medium-sized
enterprises. Past experience with rural financing initiatives, however, has suggested that
sectoral approaches are far less successful in addressing these types of constraints to small-
business development than are systemic approaches. The US$ 80 million World Bank Rural
Finance project (P046020), which was recently declared effective, was designed in part to
provide resources for this type of investment, and FDP includes support for actions to
establish the necessary linkages between rural forest-based industries and this mechanism.
ForsBIC will seek to provide these linkages. Wood processing sector is also going to benefit
from EU SAPARD Program.
The objective of the Forest Sector Business Information Center (ForSBIC) is to provide a one
stop knowledge / information point dedicated to the forest sector which will assist small
enterprises and small and medium enterprises (SMEs), business interests and other
stakeholders obtain information concerning sources of finance, product development,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT   131              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



technology, business development, taxation and legislation and in so doing support the
growth and development of the sector.
The benefits of this program will be:
increased access to financing through grants and other favorable funding instruments;
* more joint ventures and foreign investment;
* investment in small and medium sized enterprises at the local and regional level,
creating more rural employment;
increased investment in the sector which will lead to a higher degree and better quality
of in country value added wood processing; and,
. increased market share and better prices for Romanian products in higher value
international markets.
It is not possible to estimate in quantitative terms the value of these benefits.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        132                IINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESm



7.    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTAND MONITORING PLAN
7.1  INTRODUCTION
The FDP has been prepared to maintain and improve environmentally sustainable
management of state and private forests so as to increase the contribution to the national
and rural economies derived from Romanian forest resources. However, as described
specifically in the previous sections of this EA, there are a number of key issues which will
affect the long term sustainability of the FDP and activities within the forest sector as a
whole.
This section presents the actions which we recommend should be implemented, firstly
within the wider institutional arena of forest sector management and exploitation, and
secondly, in terms of the preparation, implementation and management of the FDP.
The section is therefore divided into two, namely:
*    institutional actions presented in Table 37; and
*    project specific actions presented in Table 38.
Both tables appear at the end of this section.
7.2   MEASURES RELEVANT TO IMPLEMENTING THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
This section describes additional measures which are of relevance in implementing the
Environmental Management Plan. It considers the critical involvement of the public in the
preparation and implementation of the FDP; and institutional recommendations which are
beyond the scope of the FDP but are critical to ensure long-term, effective and sustainable
management of Romania's forest sector.
7.2.1 Involvetnent of the Civil Society and the Private Sector
Consultation with forest sector stakeholders and public and private business interests
during conception and preparation of the FDP has suggested that the following measures
are crucial for the success of the FDP.
* the public are currently excluded from key decision-making processes (in particular with
respect to restitution) and are becoming increasingly hostile to public authorities at
regional and national level. This presents a threat to sustainable forest management in
Romania which the FDP should address. It requires the forest authorities to actively raise
their profile amongst the public and private forest industries through implementing a
policy of openness, engagement and awareness raising;
* During project implementation, public consultations will:
- ascertain the most appropriate methods and tools for raising public awareness
depending on socio-cultural systems;
ENVIRONNMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  133            NIINISTRYOFAGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



-  identify and understand the expectations and existing capacities of the public and
private sector organizations to manage the environment sustainably and also to
understand their existing use of, and interactions with, forest resources;
-  ensure that existing public uses of the forest are not compromised in the
development of FMPs and that these uses are also taken into account as appropriate
in strategic forest planning; and
-  ensure that the construction/rehabilitation and use of forest roads will not lead to
conflicts with communities affected by the roads (though this outcome is apparently
unlikely on the basis of public consultation work carried out to date).
The public awareness campaign planned as a sub-component of the FDP, will have a
significant role to play in improving the understanding of public/stakeholders on
sustainable forest management. It is however also clear that for this knowledge to be
sustained over time and put into practice, there is a need for the Government and forest
authorities to work more openly and be more responsive to public/private business desires.
This may require a step change in the existing operating practices of many of the institutions
involved, but it is one which is crucial to sustain into the long-term the benefits of the FDP.
7.2.2. Institutional issues
Institutional issues which are relevant to, but which cannot necessarily be implemented by
the FDP in isolation from the wider social, political and economic context can be
summarized as follows:
1. Responsibility for the policy and strategic approach for integrating environmental
and social issues into the forestry sector should rest with the Department of Forests
(specifically, in the Directorate for Strategy, Policy and Legislation - DSPL):
a. an environmental focal point should be appointed in DSPL;
b. the environmental training needs assessment which FDP will support should
consider also DSPL and other DoF staff (see Section 2.  Policy, Legal, and
Institutional Framework);
c. environmental issues should be included in DoF's standard reporting
format(s);
d. linkages and information flows to other key institutions with responsibilities
for the environment should be established and/or formalized. These will
include other parts of MAFF (such as the SAPARD unit) and MWEP
(environmental inspectorate, local EPAs, and those responsible for
transposition of environmental  legislation as part of the pre-accession
process); The roles and responsibilities of the environmental function in DoF
should make explicit reference to the need to ensure effective communication
and co-ordination with the SAPARD unit in MAFF.
e. environmental data should be included as a matter of course in the formal
and informal information flows between DoF and other public and private
sector institutions in the forestry sector.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT   134               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



2. The Forest Inspectorate should take lead responsibility within the Government of
Romania for regulating and monitoring environmental performance in the forestry
sector, especially in relation to forest roads, extraction activities and forest
management plans.   This is consistent with EU standards for Environmental
Assessment and reflects best practice amongst other forest institutions in Europe.
a. The Forest Inspectorate should be maintained at its existing staffing levels,
and further personnel should recruited to fill authorized staff position.
b. Capacity building (formal and on-the-job training, awareness raising, etc)
should be implemented within the context of FDP support to the
Inspectorate.
c. For forest roads and FMPs, the Inspectorate should develop environmental
compliance monitoring and simplified environmental audit training capacity.
This could be either in-house or through call-down contracts with suitably
qualified institutions.
d. Environmental screening should be part of the FMP review/approval
process, with procedures put in place to attach auditable environmental
'conditions' to the approval of FMPs where these are necessary and
appropriate.
3. Access to cleaner production and environmentally sustainable technology/practice
advice and contacts should be available via the Forest Sector Business Information
Center (ForSBIC) . The FDP should raise the awareness of ForSBIC staff in this
respect, and provide guidance and support as appropriate.
4. NFA's mission statement and policy should clearly and explicitly commit to
sustainable management of the forest land under its administration (whether for
timber, other forest products or for beneficial uses such as watershed protection and
biodiversity values).
a. Institutional responsibilities for environmental management within the NFA
should be more clearly established. These responsibilities should include
collating information on NFA's environmental performance and reporting it
to management, internal environmental training and awareness-raising, and
coordination of technical assistance (expertise external to NFA as
appropriate) to review and address issues arising from performance against
environmental standards set down in the FMP environmental conditions and
other screening and guidelines.
b. The FDP should provide awareness raising and training to NFA staff in forest
road engineering best practice, and sustainable forest management best
practice more generally.
5. As ICAS staff build their capacity in EIA, FDP should support their efforts by
offering opportunities for ICAS staff to participate in environmental awareness
raising and training activities.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    135               MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURL. FOOD AND FORESTS



6. APPR awareness raising and training should include coverage of environmental and
social issues. Emphasis should be given to the importance of public participation,
and consultation techniques which will facilitate involvement of a broad range of
stakeholders in sustainable forest management.
7. INL staff should receive training to help them address environmental and social
issues, and to support their uptake of the forest roads Best Practice Manual which
will be prepared under the FDP.
8. The regulatory framework for the private operating companies should explicitly
require that operating standards take full account of all applicable environmental
legislation, regulations and other guidance (such as the forest road Best Practice
Manual).
9. The FDP should provide awareness raising and training to private management
company staff in forest road engineering best practice, and sustainable forest
management best practice more generally.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT      136               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Table 37: Recommended Iistituitionial Actions to Imiprove the Effectiveniess of the FDP in enviroyinnienttal teniis
Barriers/Challenges to                                                                                                       FDP
effective implementation                                                                                           Cost   Component
Institution     of the FDP and            Effect                            Recommended Actions [1] Responsibility  Timing          [2L      [3]
MAFF            Lack of awareness in DoF of DoF not fully qualified or equipped to  Environmental   DoF; FDP       Durinig FDP       NI     1a,ld, 4
(Directorate of  environmental and        promote sustainable forest        mainstreaming           support        implementation
Forests)        sustainable development   management                        Training                As above
issues and responses
Study tours             As above
Forest          Resistance of private forest  Conflict between Inspectors and forest Consultation/  Fl, supported  During FDP        NI     la, 4
Inspectorate    owners (and NFA) to       managers and users will divcrt    Engagement              by FDP         implemcntation
regulatory role of        Inspectorate resources from their
Inspectorate              primary function of regulating and  Raise profile of Fl   As above
promoting sustainable forest
management                        Raise awareness of      As above
sustainable forest
management benefits
Incorporate environment  As above
into technical standards
and norms
National Forest  Restructuring of NFA as  Downsizing and job losses;        Change management       NFA,           Before and        Nl       2a
Administration  restitution progresses    Adoption of new management goals                          supported by   (luring FDP
(NFA)                                     and techniques;                                           FDP            implementation
Adoption of new sustainable
management principles;            Environmental           As above
Reduced revenues and increased    mainstreaming
pressure to return a profit (thereby
increasing pressure for unsustainable
forest management and diversion of  Study tours           As above
resources from management of
,unproductive' protected areas).
Resentment of private sector Potential for serious conflict during the Tr-ansparent, equitable  GOR  Before anl      M    2a, l b and 4
and rightful forest owners  restitution process as rightful owners  restitution program            during FDP
towards NFA              fear that the NFA will diminish their                                     imnplenientation
entitled resources prior to restitution
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           137                                          NIINISIRY oF AGRI(-U I URr, F(-x) ANI) FORLRTS



Barriers/Challenges to                                                                                                    1 _DP
effective implementation                                                                                             Cost   Component
Institution     of the FDP and            Effect                             Recommended Actions [II  Responsibility  Timing          12]       131
Association of  Low institutional capacity  Sustainable forest management    Awareniess raising;      APPR (support  During FDP       I.       l l c,4
Private Forest  of national association;  principles andl practices not being  establish channels for  from FDP)     imiiplemenitation
Owners (APPR)   regional associations not yet promoted effectively via the main  APPR to access
set up                    'trade association'                environmental expertise                        .
Key:
[11 Recommended Actions: Refer to Sectioni 5.  FDP's Critical Emnironinentnl and Socinl linpacts and Mitigation Measures for more detailed description.
121 Costs: This refers to the relative cost of implementing the action where it is considered relevant for FDP support. Costs are presencte  as If (High), NI
(Medium) or L (Low)
[31 FDP Component: Where it is considered relevant for the FDP to support this action, the most suitable component of the FDP has been recommendledi for
inclusion of the action. The Component numbers refer to the following:
Component 1:        Establish Systems to Ensure Sustainable Management of Private Forest Lands
Suib-componenit l.a:  Forest Inspectorate: Supenrisony, Regilatory and Advisory Capacity
Sub-component lb:   Suipport to the Association of Private Forest Owlniers
Sub-comn ponent Ic  Establishimienit of Coninninity-based Associations of Local Forest Owners
Sub-component ld:   Forest Management Inforniationt annd Monitoring System
Component 2:        Mitigate Consequences of Restitution on Management of State Forest Lands
Sub-component 2a:   Strategic Development of tile NFA
Suib-comiponent 2b:  Road Relabilitation and Construction
Component 3:        Establishment of a Forest Sector Business Information Center
Component 4:        Build Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management
Component 5:        Project Management
ENVIRONMENTAL RrSOURCES NIANAGENIFNT                           138                                           tINISIRY OF ACR U 1Culil: RE( RX) AND FlORFsIS



Table 38: Environmenetal Mantagemenit Plan for the Romnania Forest Developmnent Project
Imp ct  I+vel                                                         J |Com ponent  1             j        l
Impact        +ve                                                                   relevant to  Responsibility/
FDP Component     Receptor     /-ve Action                                                            Action       Recipient      Time       Cost'
1. ESTABLISH SYSTEMS TO ENSURE SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF PRIVATE FOREST LANDS
la Forest         Environment    +   1. Training and awareness raising in the following is required:  1.a          DoF & Fl        ongoilig   NI
Inspectorate:     /Institutional     *   environmental impacts of forest activities and how they can be
Supervisory,                             avoided/mitigated
Regulatory and                       *   tooLs and methods for sustainable forest management and planning
Advisory                                 (including GIS)
Capacity                             *   methods and tools for public consultation, mediation and marketing
*   the NFPS
Environment        2.  Preparation of Operational Guidelines/Procedures for environmental  1.a   DoF & Fl          YI        L
/Institutional         protection and management to be implemented by DoF and Fl
Environment        3. Completion of Diagnostic on sectoral governance               L.a          DoF & Fl         Y1/2       L
/Institutional         Findings used to increase capacity of Fl to:                 Intiependent
*   prosecute against illegal harvesting;                        financing of
*   enforce FMPs on restituted land                              diagnostic
Environment        4. Ensure sufficient financing and support mechanisms to enable the Fl to L.a  DoF & Fl        Y1/2      M
/Institutional         have a visible presence in forest areas to regulate forest activities
Environment        5. Awareness raising and extension on: (see aLso Component 3)    L.a & 4      DoF, Fl, NFA &  ongoing    HI
*   role of forest authorities in managing and enforcing sustainable forest   PNIT
practices;
*   promotion of environmentally sustainable management practices;
*   environmental impacts of forest exploitation;
*   importance of sustainable management of forests;
*   long-term international importance of Romania's forests;
*   tax and revenue system for private forest exploitation
Social         +   6.  Develop and foster a collaborative relationishiip between Fl and local  L.a & 4  DoF & Fl  ongoing    L
communities/private businesses to ensure local co-operation in
preventing illegal harvesting
Social         -   7. Consult and engage with local communities/private forest owners to  1.a & 4  DoF & Fl      ongoinig    L
secure buy-in and mutual understanding of the role of the Flt the need
for sustainable management and the needs of local forest users
ENVIRONNMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT                                  139                                            KIINISIRY orA(;Rlcul iURF, FCRm ANID ORI Sis



Component
Impact        +ve                                                                   relevant to  Responsibility/
FDP Component     Receptor     /-ve Action                                                            Action       Recipient     1Time       Cost'
Economic       +   8.  Establish (through consultation) a clear and transparent tax and  L.a     DoF & Fl         YI/2       L
revenue pricing and collection systemil for forest resources. Include
incentives to promote sustainable harvesting and investmenit into
modern and less environmentally damaging harvesting antd transport
equipment
lb. Support to the  Environment  +   9.  Provide advice, support and incentives to private forest owners  lb, Ic   DoF, AI'l'R &   ongoilng    L
Association of                           associations for sustainable forest management (SFM) and FSC              PCT
Private Forest                           certification
Owners (APPR) &   Environment        10. Training programs and materials on:                          lb, Ic       APPR, DoF       ongoing
lc. Establishment  / Institutional   *   sustainable forest management (techniques, practices, management
of Community-     / Economic             planning etc.)
based Associations                   *   environmental impacts of forest management and exploitation
of Local Forest                      *   operational role of Fl
Owners (ALFO)                        *   purpose of FMPs
*   business management
Environment    +   11. Develop guidelines, tools and methodls for sustainable forestry antd       DoF            ongoing     L
make available to APPR and ALFOs
Environment    +   12. Enforce implementation of FNlPS antd provide help andl su pport to  La, I b, I c  DoF /FI  ongoing    L
APPR and ALFOs to facilitate this
Social'        -    13. APPR, ALFOs and FNIPs should take account of the interests of local  la, lb, 1c  DoF/Fl & NFA  ongoilig  L
forest users through consultation to avoid conflicts
ld. Forest        Environment/   +   14. Strategic planning for forest management should:             Ild, la       DoF & Fl       ongoilig  NI/I-I
Management        Institutional      *   be undertaken at a watershed/catchment level;
Information and                      *   consider and take account of cumulative environmental impacts of
Monitoring                               forest management, harvesting and extraction plus the cumulative
System                                   effects of secondary processing industries;
*   utilize GIS to assist in identification and monitorinig of cumulative
effects;
*   co-ordinate and be consistent with regional economiiic and dlevelopment
planning undertaken at the Local/ District/Judet leveLs
*   be made accessible to private forest owners and the public and facilitate
their comments
*   be enforced through the DoF/FI
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCFS MANAGEMFNT                                    140                                           KIINISIRY or AGRI('UI.IURE, tR()D AND F'()RfSIS



I                                                                                  Component
Impact       +ve                                                                  relevant to  Responsibility/
FDP Component    Receptor     /-ve Action                                                          Action       Recipient     1Time      Cost
Environment   +    15. Training and capacity building in:                         Id, la       DoF & Fl       ongoing    L
/ Institutional    *   the identification and avoidance/mitigation of cumulative
environmental impacts
*   monitoring environmental impacts (including data collection and
analysis as appropriate)
*   use and application of GIS for environmental management planning
Environment   +    16. Monitoring:                                                I d & 4      DoF & Fl       onigoing   NI
/ Institutional    *  should include the collection and analysis of data on environmelital
impacts of forest activities including: species diversity, forest cover,
recreation, erosion, sedimentation, transport volumes and industrial
pollution from wood processing (air, water, soil and noise)
*   results should be analyzed and mechanisms should be established
within the appropriate authorities (DoF/FI or NFA) to respond to any
negative environmental impacts identified;
*   results should be reported and made accessible to the public.
"_____ 2'1'2. MITIGATE CONSEQUENCES OF RESTITUTION ON MANAGEMENT OF STATE FOREST LANDS
2a. Strategic    Environment    +   17. Training and capacity building of NFA staff on             2a           NFA             ongoing    L
Development of   / Institutional    *   environmentally sustainable forest management (including impacts/
the NFA                                 mitigation)
*   business management
*   the NFPS
*   public consultation and engagement
Environment   -    18. Implement the NFPS and guidelines to promote sustainable forest  2a     GOR, NFA        Before    L
/ Institutional       management                                                                              FDP start
Social         -   19. Raise profile of NFA through wider publicity, policy of openness and  2a & 4  NFA      ongoing     L
public awareness
Institutional  -   20. Support institutional change within the NFA to ensure efficient and  2a  NFA/PCT       ongoing    H
sustainable management and planning of forest resources
2b: Rehabilitation  Environment  +  21. Training and Capacity Building in:                         2b, 2a, 1.a,lb, DoF, Fl & NFA  ongoing  L
and Construction  / Institutional   *   best practice in road siting, design, construction and maintenance  ic, Id
of Forest Roads                     *   environmental impacts of roads (including cumulative impacts),
(See Sectiont 5.                        environmental screening and assessment
FDP's                        *   use of Best Practice Manual
Critical         Environment    +   22. Implenient screening and EA procedures                     2b, la       DoF, Fl & NFA   ongoing    L
Envirotnmrtenital and Environment  223. Empower Forest Inspectorate to patrol forests and prosecute illegal  la  DoF, Fl & NFA  ongoing    L
Social Impacts                          activities
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT                                  141                                          NIINISiRY OF AGRICUIIURF, Foo0n ANDl IFoRl.qV



Component
Impact        +ve                                                                    relevant to   Responsibility/
FDP Component     Receptor      /-ve Action                                                            Action        Recipient      Time       Cost*
and Mitigation    Environment    -    24. Public awareness raising on the importance of preserving and  4            DoF, Fl, NFA &  ongoing    L
Measures)                                 sustainably managing Romania's forests andi preventing illegal             PCT
harvestilg/activities
Environment    -    25. Police and enforce implementation of FMPs                    la            Fl              ongoinig   L
Environment    -    26. Ensure Strategic NManagement Plans take account of potential transport  Id, 2b  DoF, Fl & NFA  ongoing  L
conflicts with local people                                                                         _
Environment    -    27. Include transport plans and guidance in FMPs to prevent negative  la       DoF, Fl & NFA   ongoing    L
impacts on local/village roads
Environment    -    28. Ensure that extraction contractors follow contractual conditions for  la   DoF, Fl & NFA   ongoing    L
transportation of forest products
Environment/   -    29. Consult with local people to identify any concernis regarding forest  2.b  Fl              ongoing    L
Social                  roads (as part of EA)
Environment/   -    30. Develop and implement a hunting license and quota system including  la, Id & 2a  DoF       ongoing    L
Institutional          charges for hunting rights
Economic       +    31. Promote establishment of secondary and processing industries (See  3       DoF             ongoing    NI
Component 3)
Institutional  +    32. Implement a procedure to formalize use of the Best Practice NManual  2b    DoF, Fl & NFA   ongoing    L
and ensure its implementation after the project closes.
_                :';-'::'-  .-  E,  l3. ESTABLISHMENT OF A FOREST SECTOR BUSINESS INFORMATION CENTER
3. Establishment of Environment  +    33. Promote, support and provide advice on:                       3            DoF, PCI        ongoing    Nl
Forest Sector     / Economic          *   use of clean technologies, processes and techniques;
Business                              *   upgrade of old, inefficient and polluting equipment and processes;
Information Center                    *   development and implementation of environmental management
systems (EMS);
*   investment finance and business management.
Environment/   +    34. Training and capacity building on:                           3             DoF, NFA        ongoing     L
Economic            *  clean technologies and processes, environm1ental pollution, waste
minimization, EMS
*   business management and development.
Economic            35. Develop and build links with other investment sources (e.g. EU  3          DoF, PCT        ongoing     L
__         SAPARD)                                                      I_II_
4. BUILD PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT
ENVIRONMIENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                     142                                            N INISI RY OF A(;RI(CUL IURF, 17(C)D AN I)FR'`IS



Component
Impact        +ve                                                                   relevant to  Responsibility/
FDP Component     Receptor     I-ve Action                                                            Action       Recipient       ime      Cost
4. Build Public   Environment    +   36. Raise awareness on:                                                       DoF             Ongoing   NM
Support for       / Social /         *   importance and purpose for sustainable forest nmanagement;
Sustainable Forest  Economic /       *   methods, tools and techniques for sustainable forestry management;
Management        Institutional      *   roles and responsibilities of forest authorities, the public and private
business;
*   policies (especially restitution), FMPs and timetables for action
*   advice and assistance available as part of the FDP, from forest
authorities, other programs;
*   opportunities for private business development, securing investment
finance and help and advice available.
Social         -   37. Ensure sound understanding of needs, desires, expectations and            PCT, DoF          FDP       L
capabilities of public about sustainable forestry and their expectation of                 prep.
the forest as a resource in developing the public awareness program
Social         -   38. Use tools and techniques appropriate to socio-cultural structures and     PA contractor   ongoing     L
circumstances                                                                            I
Institutional  -   39. Ensure early involvement and engagement of forest authorities aith the 1.1, 2.3 & 4  DoF/Fl, NFA,  Y1  L
public                                                                    PCT
:;-  . ;   -  > e;; .           5. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
5. Project        Environment    -   40. Regularly review the effectiveness of the FDP in terms of environmental 4  PCT            ongoing    L
Management                              impacts and benefits and revise activities accordingly
Environment    -   41. Support and promote: environmental training and capacity building of 4    PCT             ongoing     L
/ Institutional        forest authorities and private forest owners associations and change
management of forest authorities
Institutional  -   42. Promote leadership and ownership of FDP by forest authorities to  4       PCT, DoF, NFA   ongoing     L
maximize long-term sustainability                           I                            I        I
*Costs :This refers to the relative cost of implementing the action where it is considered relevant for FDP support. Costs are presented as 1II (High), M (Medium) or L (Low)
See also Notes to Table 37
ENVIRONNMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGENIENT                                 143                                            NIINISTRY oF AGRICUI.IURF. FonI) ANI) FORFSTS



APPENDICES
APPENDIX 1: RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PREPARATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE
FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX 2: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT UPDATE
APPENDIX 3: CONSULTATIONS AND DISCLOSURE WITH RESPECT TO PROJECT PREPARATION
AND IN RELATION TO PREPARATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF
THE FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX 4: PROTECTED AREAS OF ROMANIA (MAP, LOCATION, AREA)
APPENDIX 5: PRELIMINARY LIST OF ROADS REHABILITATION AND CONSTRUCTION SUB-
PROJECTS AND MAPS
APPENDIX 6: PROTECTION FORESTS: FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES AND PERMISSIBLE FELLING
SYSTEMS IN ROMANIA
APPENDIX 7: LIST OF UNDISTURBED FORESTS IN ROMANIA
APPENDIX 8: SUGGESTED SCREENING FOR WOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRIES
APPENDIX 9: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR DIAGNOSTIC STUDY OF CORRUPTION IN THE
FORESTRY SECTOR
APPENDIX 10: RESULTS FROM PRELIMINARY SCREENING OF ROADS REHABILITATION SUB-
PROJECTS FOR THEIR ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
APPENDIX 11: BIBLIOGRAPHY
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT  145             IINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



APPENDIX 1: RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PREPARATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE
FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Environmental Assessment was prepared by Environmental Resources Management,
UK and Intergroup Engineering, Romania. The EA preparation team comprised:
Name                  Organization|
Eamon Barrett         Environmental Resource Management, UK
Reed Huppman          Environmental Resource Management, USA
Silviu Novac          Intergroup, Romania
Nicolae Lesnic        Intergroup, Romania
This Environmental Assessment Update was prepared by staff commissioned by the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, in particular, Dr. loan Abrudan, Transilvania
University Brasov, who participated extensively in project preparation, and Mrs. Alina
Istodor and Mr. Mihai Musetescu, with EPC Bucarest who worked with Intergroup and
ERM to ensure that key concerns were addressed in this Update.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MlANAGEMENT  146              NIINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



APPENDIx 2: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR EVVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT UPDATE
Background
1.    The Government of Romania (GOR) has requested the World Bank's assistance in
preparing and financing a Forestry Development Project (FDP), to be implemented over the
course of a six year period through the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF).
2.    The objective of the FDP is to increase the contribution to the national economy from
sustainable management of Romania's forest resources by: (a) establishing effective
institutional arrangements and capacity to support sustainable forest management on public
and private lands, and a national network of forest protected areas; (b) aiding forest sector
development by establishing a business development and advisory service, improving the
efficiency and profitability of the National Forest Authority (NFA), supporting the
development of private forest owners associations, and improving forest infrastructure,
including forest roads; and (c) building public awareness and support for sustainable
management of forest resources. The project was screened for its potential environmental
impacts, and because of the possibility that the project may have negative environmental
impacts, and the public interest associated with some of the proposed activities, the World
Bank assigned the FDP an environmental category "A," which requires a full environmental
assessment, including public disclosure and consultation.
3.    In order to set the policy framework for the FDP, MAFF worked with a broad range
of sector stakeholders, through a facilitated participatory process, to develop a National
Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS), which was completed in 2000. In addition, MAFF
received a Grant through the World Bank from the Government of Japan (PHRD Grant),
which was used to hire consultants to assist in preparing the FDP. Following completion of
the NFPS, the PHRD Grant was used to finance the following three separate consultant
contracts: (a) overall preparation of the FDP; (b) preparation of a public communications
strategy to build support for implementation of the FDP; and (c) preparation of a category A
environmental assessment (EA).
4.    The overall preparation of the FDP was guided by an analysis of the potential
environmental impacts of proposed FDP activities and was informed by a separate
Environmental Assessment which was commissioned. The EA was undertaken after
preliminary preparation work had identified likely project activities, and was conducted in
close consultation with MAFF and the consultants engaged to undertake overall project
preparation. The original Environmental Assessment was prepared by ERM Ltd. (UK) in
cooperation with Intergroup Engineering SRL (Romania), and was completed in early
October 2001, prior to the project's formal Appraisal by the World Bank.
5.    Additional concerns, however, were subsequently raised about the project and the
Environmental Assessment following Appraisal, which had not been voiced during the
initial and extensive period of consultation leading to project preparation and to preparation
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT  147              NINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



of the original Environmental Assessment. In December 2001, the Romanian project
preparation team met with concerned local NGOs to discuss these issues more fully.
Subsequent correspondence from CEE Bankwatch and a group of 17 Romanian NGOs with
World Bank President James D. Wolfensohn indicated continuing concern about the project
and the Environmental Assessment.
6.    During another NGO consultation convened in Brasov, on March 21, 2002, it was
agreed that there was scope for improving the original Environmental Assessment, and that
this task should be completed with urgency prior to the project's eventual negotiation and
approval by the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors.
7.    These Terms of Reference describe the areas of the original Environmental
Assessment which should be updated and improved.
Objective
8.    The objective of preparing this Environmental Assessment Update is
* to provide additional information about the proposed Romania Forest Development
Project which was not available at the time when work on the original
Environmental Assessment was completed and made available in October 2001,
. further to inform and where appropriate, improve, project design and data
presentation and
* to identify any subsequent modifications, risks, or changes to the Environmental
Management Plan needed to address the project's potential negative environmental
impacts.
9.    It is being prepared on the basis of additional inputs prepared for the Project
Appraisal Mission (which took place from October 14 to 26, 2001) and which had not been
available at the time the original EA was finalized and in response to the feedback provided
at the NGO consultation on March 21, 2002.
Scope of Work
10.   The Environmental Assessment Update should be carried out in close collaboration
with the consultants who were responsible for overall project preparation, and through a
process that includes consultation with major stakeholders and which provides for comment
and input from interested parties. The following regulations and guidelines should guide
the EA process and assist in defining the content of the updated final EA report:
* Relevant Romanian environmental legislation.
*  World Bank Operational Policy (OP) and Bank Procedure (BP) 4.01: Environmental
Assessment;
* World Bank Operational Policies on Forestry (4.36 ), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), and
Cultural Heritage (OP 4.11);
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  148             NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



* Worldc Bank Environmental Assessment Sourcebook (1991) and the October 1993
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook Updates;
Tasks
11.   Under the supervision of the MAFF, and in close collaboration with consultants
engaged to undertake overall preparation of the FDP, the EA update consultant team will:
* Familiarize themselves with the status, trends and institutional capacity for forest
management in Romania, together with the key issues and findings of the NFPS.
Familiarization will entail reviewing background documentation, including:
i. the 2001 FDP draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD), and
associated  documentation,  including  the  draft  Project
Implementation Plan;
ii. 1999 MWFEP/ World Bank Forestry Sector Note;
iii. the 1994 World Bank/FAO Forestry Sector Review;
iv. the FORTECH report on forest certification;
v. relevant existing and draft legislation and regulations, including
the 1996 Forest Code, together with progress in adapting
Romanian forest related legislation for compliance under the EU
Acquis Communitaire;
vi. EU documentation with significance for development of the
forestry sector;
vii. the Romanian Medium Term National Development Strategy,
which was submitted to the EU in March 2000, and the EU Forest
Strategy;
viii. the original EA prepared by ERM and Intergroup in 2001;
ix. the Quality Assessment of the FDP EA commissioned by
Bankwatch in 2002, as well as other documentation about the
project prepared by Bankwatch and posted on its website
(ww w.Bankwatch.org), including Bankwatch's correspondence
with Government and with the World Bank;
x. the minutes and recommendations of the meetings with ENGOs
organized by the MAFF and held in Brasov in December 2001 and
March 2002.
* Consult with counterparts and key forestry sector stakeholders, including MAFF,
NFA, private and state forest industries, the academic and environmental
communities, NGOs and private forest land owner associations, local communities
(both at the project sites and the potentially affected neighboring areas);
* Review technical and strategic development processes and solutions adopted by
other countries facing similar forestry sector reform issues, including, inter-alia,
consultation and collaboration with World Bank consultants undertaking the on-
going regional review of the experience of forest land restitution; and
* Review the findings and conclusions of the NFPS preparation process.
ENVIRONN1ENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT  149            MIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



. Interact closely with MAFF and consultants engaged to undertake overall
preparation of the FDP and collaboratively review  the environmental, social,
economic and technical analysis undertaken to provide the rationale for activities
that would be funded under the FDP.
12.   The consultants will prepare an updated, improved, and strengthened EA. The
consultants will give particular attention to clarifying the differences between the role of a
Strategic Environmental Assessment and an assessment of the environmental impacts of
project-specific impacts. The EA will consider very specifically those impacts which can be
clearly articulated in terms of their project impacts, and will distinguish these from potential
sector-wide impacts of the proposed investment. In particular, the consultants will:
* Include information which is not fully reported upon, particularly with respect to
fuller information about the project, the location of the initial list of roads targeted for
rehabilitation or construction, changes to the legal framework which may impact
project implementation, information about the consultation process which was used
both to inform preparation of the project and to improve the Environmental
Assessment, maps (for those roads which can be identified at this stage and as
appropriate) and other information about initiatives with respect to public activities
to conserve biodiversity (including the GEF-financed Biodiversity Conservation
Management Project);
 Incorporate the text and recommendations which are outlined in Annex IIA of the
original Environmental Assessment ['Initial Report on Environmental Aspects of
Forest Roads Component' prepared by Fortech, Dames and Moore, and Project
Management (Ireland)] into the Environmental Assessment as an integral part of it,
to develop binding recommendations during roads construction and rehabilitation;
* Consider more fully the likely direct and indirect impacts of project investments on
harvesting, based on information which is available, and will develop and describe
actions to mitigate these impacts where they are not consistent with sustainable
forest management practices;
* To the extent possible, examine the risks to project performance associated with
illegal harvesting and problems of governance, and propose steps to reduce these
risks;
* add more information about the project alternatives considered and the reasons for
their rejection (particularly in the context of the National Forest Policy and Strategy).
* Describe in detail the steps taken to publicly disclose information about the project,
as well as the steps taken to disclose and consult with key stakeholders during
preparation of the original Environmental Assessment.
13.   The consultants will prepare a revised draft and final EA report which will include
an Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
14.   The updated EA report will be structured in a manner which fully incorporates the
information provided in the original EA:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    150              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Summarv.    Conciselv  discusses  significant  findings  and
recommended actions.
ii.    Policy, legal, and administrative framework. Discusses the policy,
legal, and administrative framework within which the EA is
carried out. Explains the environmental requirements of any
cofinanciers. Identifies relevant international environmental
agreements to which the country is a party.
iii.   Project description. Concisely describes the proposed project and
its geographic, ecological, social, and temporal context, including
any offsite investments that may be required (e.g., raw material
and product storage facilities). Indicates the need for any
resettlement plan or indigenous peoples development plan.
Includes relevant maps showing the project sites and the project's
area of influence.
iv.    Baseline data. Assesses the dimensions of the study area and
describes relevant physical, biological, and socioeconomic
conditions, including any changes anticipated before the project
commences. Also takes into account current and proposed
development activities within the project area but not directly
connected to the project. Data should be relevant to decisions
about project location, design, operation, or mitigatory measures.
The section indicates the accuracy, reliability, and sources of the
data.
v.     Environmental impacts. Predicts and assesses the project's likely
positive and negative impacts, in quantitative terms to the extent
possible. Identifies mitigation measures and any residual negative
impacts that cannot be mitigated. Explores opportunities for
environmental enhancement. Identifies and estimates the extent
and quality of available data, key data gaps, and uncertainties
associated with predictions, and specifies topics that do not
require further attention.
vi.    Analysis  of alternatives. Systematically  compares  feasible
alternatives to proposed project sites, technology, design, and
operation in terms of their potential environmental impacts. The
feasibility of mitigating these impacts; their capital and recurrent
costs; their suitability under local conditions; and their
institutional, training, and monitoring requirements. For each of
the alternatives, quantifies the environmental impacts to the extent
possible, and attaches economic values where feasible. States the
basis for selecting the particular project design proposed and
justifies recommended emission levels and approaches to
pollution prevention and abatement, as needed.
vii.   Environmental management plan (EMP). The EMP will describe a
set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be
taken during implementation and operation to eliminate adverse
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT     151               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTs



environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels. The plan will also include the actions needed to
implement these measures. The EA design team will (a) identify
the set of responses to potentially adverse impacts; (b) determine
requirements for ensuring that those responses are made
effectively and in a timely manner; and (c) describe the means for
meeting those requirements. More specifically, the EMP includes
the following components: (i) mitigation, (ii) monitoring, (iii)
capacity development and training, (iv) integration of EMP with
project and (v) implementation schedule and cost estimates.
viii. Appendixes
1. List of EA report preparers-individuals and organizations.
2. References-written materials both published and unpublished,
used in study preparation.
3. Record of interagency and consultation meetings, including
consultations for obtaining the informed views of the affected
people and local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). The
record specifies any means other than consultations (e.g.,
surveys) that were used to obtain the views of affected groups
and local NGOs.
4. Tables presenting the relevant data referred to or summarized
in the main text.
5. List of associated reports (e.g., resettlement plan or indigenous
peoples development plan).
6. Other Appendices needed to assist in implementing the
Environmental Management Plan.
15.   The draft Environmental Assessment will be submitted to MAFF and to the World
Bank for its initial review. On the basis of the draft updated Environmental Assessment and
in consultation with MAFF, the World Bank will advise Government of its recommendations
with respect to the period required for disclosure and public consultation, in order to ensure
that these are credible and effective at disseminating information included in the EA and
gathering additional feedback needed to develop the final EA.
16.   On the basis of this recommendation, the consultants will make available a draft for
consultation and disclosure (consistent with the guidance offered in World Bank
Operational Policies), will carry out the required public consultations, and will finalize the
EA on the basis of this consultation.
ENVIRONNMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   152               MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



APPENDIX 3: CONSULTATIONS AND DISCLOSURE WITH RESPECT TO PROJECT PREPARATION AND
IN RELATION TO PREPARATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE FOREST
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The FDP conception and preparation process has involved seven distinct stages of public
consultation. The purpose, date, participants and key outcomes of these activities are
summarized in Table 39.
In particular, FDP is very much an outcome of some of the consultations which were
undertaken during preparation of the NFPS.
Table 39: Key Public Consultations and Their Results
Purpose                Date      Participants            Key outcomes
1. Preparation and      1998/99  GOR and various         * importance of capacity building for all
discussion of World           ministries and authorities  key public and private sector
Bank Program                                            organizations;
concept                                               * importance of forest road network;
* concerns over sustainability of forests
after restitution;
2. Preparation of NFPS    2000    key forestry sector    * agreement on forest policy, strategic
stakeholders:             objectives and actions;
government/ministry
representatives, private
sector, research and
academic community,
NGOs, general public etc.
3. Preparation of TOR     2000    Government ministries   * importance of forest roads;
for EA                        key forest sector       * agreement on focus of EA;
stakeholders, local
communities, NGOs
4. Informal consultation  April 2001 local communities    . complete distrust of authorities in dealing
as part of Social             business groups            with restitution fairly;
Study during FDP              local authorities       * lack of any effective communication
preparation                                              between authorities and local people;
* no information about when restitution
will happen and what land people will
get;
* no involvement of local people in
decision-making,
* very difficult to obtain private finance
without collateral;
5. Preparation of draft  June and  Individuals and        .
and Final EA        September institutions who
2001    responded to published
notices of consultation
meetings: included
govemment/ministry
representatives, private
sector, research and
academic community,
__________________   _________  NGOs, general public etc.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT          153                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Purpose              Date      Participants          Key outcomes
6. Development of     ongoing  Government agencies   * on-going;
Public Awareness            involved in FDP
Strategy and Program        other organizations
to be incorporated          associated with forest
into FDP                    sector, local comnmunities,
implementation              NGOs
7. Post-Appraisal      From    Environmental NGOs    . EA Update
consultations      November concerned about potential
_  2001 on  environmental impacts
As a result of these formal consultation activities and following informal consultation with
forest sector stakeholders and authorities during preparation of the FDP and the EA, the
following key conclusions can be drawn:
*   many forest sector stakeholders and the public perceive considerable benefits from the
FDP (than without it) particularly with regard to ensuring restitution is undertaken
fairly and that long-term economic gains will be possible;
*  the public are for the most part currently excluded from key decision-making processes
(in particular over restitution) and are becoming increasingly hostile to public authorities
at the regional and national level. This presents a threat to sustainable forest
management in Romania which the FDP should address. It requires forest authorities
actively to raise their profile amongst the public and private forest industries through
implementing a policy of openness, engagement and awareness raising;
*   there are substantial benefits to be gained from raising the awareness of the public on the
importance and long-term value of forest resources in Romania.
During project preparation and implementation however, there is a need for public
consultation to:
*   ascertain the most appropriate methods and tools for raising public awareness
depending on socio-cultural systems;
.   identify and understand the expectations and existing capacities of the public and
private sector organizations to manage the environment sustainably and also to
understand their existing use of, and interactions with, forest resources;
.   ensure that existing public uses of the forest are not compromised in the development of
FMPs and that these uses are also taken into account as appropriate in strategic forest
planning; and
*  ensure that the construction/rehabilitation and use of forest roads will not lead to
conflicts with communities affected by the roads.
It is also clear from the consultations that the public awareness campaign planned as a sub-
component of the FDP, will have a significant role to play in improving the understanding
of public/stakeholders on sustainable forest management. It is however also clear that for
this knowledge to be sustained over time and put into practice, there is also a responsibility
on the Government and forest authorities to work more openly and be more responsive to
public/private business desires. This may require a step change in existing operating
ENVIRONKIENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT       154                MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



practices of manv of the institutions involved, but one which is crucial to sustain into the
long-term, the benefits of the FDP.
Consultations about the project generally, particularly within the framework of the NFPS,
should be isolated from statutory responsibilities for consultation during preparation of the
EA TORs and the draft EA.
Consultations ont preparationi of the National Forest Policty ald Strategy
These consultations were extensive, and contributed importantly to the design and
development of the Forestry Development Project. The process of consultation and public
information dissemination which coincided with preparation of the NFPS is described here.
None of this consultation, however, should be construed to have substituted for statutory
requirements with respect to consultation during preparation of the TORs for the
Environmental Assessment, or for the review of the first draft (which are described
subsequently).
Stakelholders Consulted Duiring NFPS Plani ng Process (lanuany-Marcih 2000)
Name_                                       Organization
Mr. Romica Tomescu, Minister MWFEP; Mr.     Ministry  of Waters, Forests and
Anton Vlad, Secretary of State; Mr. Florea Trifoi,  Environmental Protection
Advisor Secretary Of State; Mr. Mihai Cozariuc,
EU Integration and International Programmes
Dept.; Mrs. Adriana Baz, Nature and Biodiversity
Conservation Dept.; Mr. Adrian Popa, Strategy,
Policy and Legal Dept.
Mrs. Viorica Rabotea, Head of Unit          Ministry of Industries
Mr. Dorin Ciuca, General Manager            National Forest Administration
Mr. Mlihai lonescu, Prime Vice-President    Association of Private Forest Owners
Mr. Ion Sbera, President; Mr. Tiberiu Nitescu  Romanian  Foresters'  Association
(ASFOR)
Mrs. 1-iliana Mona Elisa Mihai, Technical Advisor  Association of Romanian Furniture
Producers (APMR)
Mr. Ion Marinescu, Vice President           General Association of Hunters and
Fishermen (AGVPS)
Sevastitia Radulescu, Advisor               National Authority of Tourism
Mr. Mihail Dumitru, Rural Development Manager  EU Mission
Mr. Gheorghe Man, General Manager; Dr. Ovidiu  Forest Research and Management
Badea, Deputy Director                      Institute (ICAS)
Professor Gheorghita lonascu, Dean          University of Brasov
Mr. Dan Runceanu, RNP Brasov Union Leader   Union (Consilva)
Mr. lurie Maxim, President                  Pro Natura
Professor Dumitru Tarziu, President         Progresul Silvic
The bulk of the consultations on the NFPS were carried out during a series of workshops in
mid-2000. The themes of these workshops, which were held in Brasov, and their
participants are outlined in the following Tables.
Date:  3-4 July 2000
Workshop on Forest Administration
Nanme                                 Orga,aizatiias
Botarca Gheorghita                    Asociatia "Stejarul" Topoloveni
fCorduneanu Constantin                RNP Bucuresti
Georgescu Filip                       DS Pitesti
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCESNIANAGEMENT            155                 MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Date:   3-4 July 2000
Workshop on Forest Administration
Name                                  Organiza tion
lonescu Mihai                         APPR Brasov
upeza Luca                           DS Bistrita
oiculet loan                         OS Zarnesti
otta Andrei                         JOS Brasov
Date:   3-4 July 2000
Workshop on Forest Management and Planning
Name                                  fOrganiization
Buzea Valeriu                        |Ambras Top S.R.L. Brasov
lacob Danut                           MWFEP, Bucuresti
Marin Gheorghc             T          ICAS Bucuresti
Nastasa Liviu                         DendroProiect S.R.L. Bacau
Seceleanu loan                        RNP Bucuresti
Date:   34 July 2000
Workshop on Environment, Water, and Protected Areas
Nane                                 :Organization
Biris lovu                           ICAS Bucuresti
Enescu Vlad                          APM Brasov
oanitescu Anca                       APM Brasov
Maxim lurie                          'Pronatura" Bucuresti
Palancean Ion                         Ministrv Of Environment, Republica Moldova
Popa Mirel Constantin                 Consiliul Judetean Brasov
Stanciu Erika                        National Park Retezat
Verghelet Mircea                     Natural Park Piatra Craiului
Date:   5-6 July 2000
Workshop on Forest Harvesting and Transport
Nane                                  Organization
Boghean Petru                         INL Bucuresti
Gotea Ovidiu                          Concordia S.R.L. Reghin
Kruch Johann                          University of Oradea
Scurtu Marius                         IST Timisoara
Taporea Constantin                    APASCO SA Maneciu
Date:   5-6 July 2000
Workshop on Forest Industries
Nane                                  Organization
Bodea Vasile Viorel                   SC MDF Sebes Frati SA Sebes-Alba
Carculea loan                         Esparo SRL Arad
Han Cornel                            ASFOR Sibiu
Rasnoveanu Constantin                 INL Bucuresti
Tohaneanu Liviu                       SCBrafor SA Brasov
Date:   5-6 July 2000
Workshop on Market Development and Quality Standards
Naame                                 Organization
Baban Adrian                          MaxMobila SRL Bucuresti
Cioaca Dorel                          MWFEP, Bucuresti
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT             156                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORES,TS



Date:   5-6 July 2000
Workshop on Market Development and Quality Standards
Name                                 JOrganization
Comsit Gheorghe                       DS Brasov
Gheorghe Adrian                       Ministry of Industry and Comnmerce, Bucuresti
lorgu Oliviu                          Parcul Forestier Vanatori Neamt
Date:   7-8 July
Workshop on Hunting and Fishing
Name                                  Organizatiori
Androne Sterian                       MWFEP, Directia juristica
Dinca Lucian                          Asociaha Ecologica Mileniul 3
lanopol Bogdan                        AGV Bacau
lonescu Ovidiu                       lCAS Brasov
loriatti Adolf                        MWFEP, Brasov
Isuf Constantin                       MWFEP, Bucuresti
Marinescu Viorel                      AGVPS Bucuresti
egrutiu Aurel                       Universitaty ofTransilvania, Brasov
kany Arpad                         Abies S.R.L.
laru Nicolae                        AGVPS Bucuresti
Date:   7-8 July
Workshop on Tourism, Non-timber Forest Products and Other Forest Services
Name                                  Organization
Buciu Aurel                           DS Suceava
Cadar Virgil                          S.C. CMV IMPEX Vaslui
Mihul Maria                           RNP Bucuresti
Promberger Christoph                  Carpathian Large Carnivore Project
Simon Tamara                         jAutoritatea Nationala pentru Turism
Date:   7-8 July
Workshop on Research, Education, Training and Safety
Name                                  Organizationi
Badea Ovidiu                          ICAS Bucuresti
Chitea Gheorghe                       Universitatea Transilvania din Brasov
Giurgiu Victor                        Academia Romana
Istratescu Constanta                  INL Bucuresti
Parnuta Gheorghe                      ICAS Bucuresti
Media Representatives in Attendance
Name'                                 Organization
Manolache Dumitru                     Curentul, Bucuresti
Moroianu Luminita                     Ziua, Bucuresti
Unturica Andreea                      Mediafax, Bucuresti
Vela Adriana                          Adevarul, Bucuresti
Organisation, Co-ordination and Facilitation of Workshops
Name                                  Organiza tiO11
Popa Adrian                           MWFEP, Bucuresti
Candea Rodica                         Technical University, Cluj-Napoca
Candea Dan                            Technical University, Cluj-Napoca
rifoi Florea                         MWFEP, Bucuresti
brudan loan Vasile                   University of Transilvania, Brasov
Henry Phillips                         roject Management Ltd., Dublin, Ireland
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT             157                  MINTRrY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



After these workshops, a meeting was convened to consider how conflicting issues would be
harmonized.
List of Participants at Sub-sector Harmonization Meeting, (Brasov 17-18 July 2000)
Name                                  Organtizationi
Badea Ovidiu                          CAS Bucuresti
Boghean Petru                         INL Bucuresti
Cadar Virgil                          S.C. CMV IMPEX Vaslui
Giurgiu Victor                        Academia Romana+Societatea Progresul Silvic
Han Cornel                            ASFOR Sibiu
loanitescu Anca                       APM Brasov
lonascu Gheorghita                    Universitatea Transilvania din Brasov
lonescu Mihai                         APPR Brasov
onescu Ovidiu                         CAS Brasov + Fundatia Carpati
orgu Oliviu                           arcul Forestier Vanatori Neamt
Kruch Johann                          Universitatea Oradea
Marinescu Viorel                       GVPS Bucuresti
Maxim lurie                            ronatura Bucuresti
Mihul Maria                           RNP Bucuresti
Nastasa Liviu                         DendroProiect S.R.L.
Negrutiu Aurel                        Universitatea Transilvania din Brasov
Pamuta Gheorghe                       CAS Bucuresti
Rasnoveanu Constantin                  NL Bucuresti
Seceleanu loan                         NP Bucuresti
Stanciu Er-ika                        Parcul National Retezat
Tarziu Dumitru                        iocietatea Progresul Silvic
Verghelet Mircea                      Parcul Natural Piatra Craiului
Voiculet loan                         OS Zarnesti
Lungu Sorin                           Oilva Brasov
Press Representation at the Sub-sector Harmonization Meeting
Namie                                 Oranizatio
Becheru Cristian                      Revista Padurilor, Bucuresti
Dumitrescu Rodica                     Revista Padurilor, Bucuresti
Popa Cristian                         Ziua, Bucuresti
Harmonization Meeting Coordination, Organization and Facilitation
Name                                  Organization
Popa Adrian                           MAPPM, Bucuresti
Candea Rodica                         Universitatea Tehnica Cluj-Napoca
Candea Dan                            Universitatea Tehnica Cluj-Napoca
Trifoi Florea                         MAPPM, Bucuresti
Abrudan loan Vasile                   Universitatea Transilvania din Brasov
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURcES MIANAGEMENT            158                  NIVNISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Written submissions to the NFPS were sought from a range of stakeholders. Three sets of
submissions were solicited: comments at the initiation of the process, comments on the
initial NFPS draft, and comments on the final NFPS draft.
Subsectoral Reco,,,niendations provided prior to National NFPS Workshtop, May-June 2000
Name                              ILocality/County
Abrudan Traian                    Cluj
Anonim
Badea Victoria                     Buzau
Balut Alexandru                    Piatra Neamt
Bancila Florian                   Targoviste
Barbatei Radu                     Sibiu
Benceu loan                        Arad
Bouriaud Laura                    Universitatea Suceava
Candescu Ilie                      Alba lulia
Cherciu lonica                     I.C.A.S. Bucuresti
Chirila Florin                     Piatra Neamt
Ciobotar Emilian                   Suceava
Cismaru C. Cristinel               Bucuresti
Ciurea Vasile                     Tulcea
Codrean Nicolac                    Deva
Coste loan                         Oradea
Craciun loan                       Hurezani, Gorj
Crizboi loan                       Alba lulia
David Gheorghe                    Targu Mures
Diaconescu Gheorghe                Pitesti
Dogaru loan Anton                  Targu Mures
Dragos Aurel                       Arad
Dumitrache Laurentiu               Focsani
Dumitrescu Nicolae                 Asoc.Econ. Silvo-Dominiala, Oravita
Dumitrescu Vladimir                Rm-Valcea
Farcas losif                       Arad
Filip loan                         Baia Mare
Filip Stefan                       Suceava
Fodor Gyorgy                       Miercurea Ciuc
Gabor Dragos                       Bucuresti
Gavrilescu Nicolae                 Nehoiu, Buzau
Gherghel Doru                      Piatra Neamt
Ghirda Bucurel                     Brasov
Ilica Alexandrina                  Alba lulia
losif loan                         Cluj Napoca
Jurcau Adrian                      Oradea
Karacsi Maria                      Covasna
Macinic loan                       Arad
Mihailescu Alexandru               Deva
Mihalca loan                       Oradea
Mitran loan                        Rm.Valcea
Moiceanu Gheorghe                  Ploiesti
Moisa Madear                       Oradea
Neamtu loan                        Sibiu
Neamntu Valerian loan              Valenii de Munte,Prahova
Nicolau Constantin                 Slobozia
Nicolescu loan                     Targu Jiu
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT            159                  MINtSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Sntbsectoral Reco?unnendationis prov7ided prior to National NFPS Worksihop, May--Jine 2000
Name                              |Locality/County
Oprea N. Ion                      Ilasi
Orandaru Relu                     lBacau
Parascan Corneliu                 IPiatra Neamt
Pasca Costel                     ITulcea
Patrascu Maria                    |Bucuresti
Paun Romeliu                     |Targoviste
Pauna loan                        IPitesti
Penescu C-tin                    ITg.Jiu
Petre VasiJe                      IPloiesfi
Petrovai loan                     lBaia Mare
Popa Constantin                   Miercurea Ciuc
Popa lonel                        Bacau
Popa Valentin                      Focsani
Popoiu Dumitru                     Bacau
Prof. Stanescu Gheorghe            Universitatea Pitesti
Radulescu Petru                    Com. Valea Mare, Valcea
Ridiche Gheorghe                  Rm.Valcea
Ruxandra Maria Marcela            Targu Jiu
Santimbrean Gheorghe               Resita
Sbera loan                         ASFOR, Bucuresti
Scortescu Vasile Ghe.              Com. Curbita, Vrancea
Serb Anghel                        Buciumeni, Dambovita
Sipos Ernest                       Sf. Gheorghe
Smocot Eminovici Mann              Suceava
Stanescu Ion                       Pitesti, Arges
Statescu Silviu                    Bucuresti
Stefan Cornel                      Dr. Tr. Severin
Tasic Ion                          Com. Priponesti, Galati
Titu Ana                           Slobozia
Vaduvoiu Stelian                   Resita
Vesa Vasile                        Cluj Napoca
Vezeteu Stefan                     Bacau
Vieru Paul                         Sf. Gheorghe
Vladuti Silviu                     Brasov
Voda Petru                         Suceava
Zaharia Florin                     Piatra Neamt
Additional comments were sought on all drafts of the NFPS.
Comments received on the first draft of the NFPS
Nanme                              Organization
Boghean Petre                      INL Bucuresti
Candea Dan                         Universitatea Tehnica Cluj-Napoca
Constanta Istratescu               INL Bucuresti
Giurgiu Victor                     Academia Romana si Progresul Silvic
lonescu Mihai                      Asociatia Proprietarilor de Paduri din Romania
Parnuta Gheorghe                   ICAS Bucuresti
Rasnoveanu Constantin              INL Bucuresti
Sbera loan                         ASFOR
Simon Tamara                       Autoritatea Nationala pt. Turism, INCDT Bucuresti
Taporea Constantin                 APASCO SA Maneciu - Prahova
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs NIANAGEMENT            160                  MINISRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Comments received on the second draft of the NFPS
Name                         Organtiza tioni
Giurgiu Victor               Academia Romana si Progresul Silvic
Machedon loan                MAPPM Bucuresti
Popa Adrian                  MAPPM Bucuresti
Radulescu lonut              ANTREC Piatra Neamt
Simon Tamara                 ANT Bucuresti
Public Information and Media Coverage of the NFPS Process
Official Launch:
10th May 2000
*  Radio Romania 1, (life - loan Abrudan - 1 hour (15.00-16.00);
* Newsagency: Mediafax
11th May 2000
* Articles in national newspapers: Economistul, Curentul, Cotidianul, Jurnalul National
12th May 2000
* Ziua, Adevarul
16th May 2000
* TVR 2 - Talk-show: State Secretary (Anton Vlad) and General Manager of NFA (Dorin
Ciuca). An interview with Ioan Abrudan also included
May 2000:
* Article in forestry magazine "Padurea Noastra"
Invitation for Public Submissions:
* 25th May 2000: Adevarul (the newspaper with the largest circulation in Romania);
* 26th May 2000: Adevarul, Jumalul National
* May 2000: forestry magazine "Padurea Noastra"
* June 2000: forestry magazine "Padurea Noastra"
Coverage in Association with Workshops:
Week 3-8 July: TV interviews (Florea Trifoi, loan Abrudan, Henry Phillips, John Fraser
Stewart, workshop participants) for PROTV, ANTENAL, TVS
* articles in the national newspapers: Curentul, Ziua, Adevarul
*  articles in local newspapers: Gazeta de Transilvana, Monitorul
*  Newsagency: Mediafax
*  11th July - TVS Brasov - Talk-show (Ioan Abrudan)
*  July 2000 - Two articles in forestry magazine "Padurea Noastra"
Public Consultation Process:
Announcement of Public Consultation Meetings:
* 30th September 2000 - Monitorul de Neamt (Piatra Neamt);
* 3rd October 2000 - Observator (Arad);
* 5th October 2000: PROTV and Radio Contact Bucharest.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOuRCES MANAGEMENT     161               MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESIS



Articles / Interviews on Public Consultation Meetings:
* 2nd October 2000 - Monitorul de Neamt (Piatra Neamt);
* 4th October 2000 - Observator (Arad);
* 6th October 2000 - PROTV, ANTENA 1, Mediafax
Publication of the Draft Policy and Strategy:
Draft I - July 2000 - forestry magazine "Padurea Noastra"
* Draft II - October 2000- - forestry magazine "Padurea Noastra
Conszultations oni t)he draft TORsfor the Environmental Assessnent
In compliance with World Bank OP 4.01 (para 15), public comment on the draft TORs for
Environmental Assessment was solicited through two mechanisms: .
*  four public meetings were convened (3 regional meetings and one at the national
level) to review the TORs. Notice of these meetings was published in two national
newspapers ("Adevarul" and "Romania Libera"), and in the forestry magazine
("Padurea Noastra");
.  written comments were solicited by announcement in two national newspapers
("Adevarul" and " Romania Libera"), the forestry magazine ("Padurea Noastra") and
on the Ministry's website.
The first public consultation on the draft TORs was held in Piatra Neamt on October 2, 2000
in the County Council Meeting Room. The meeting started with a description of the FPD
components made by Mr. Florea Trifoi, Project Preparation Team Leader (MWFEP). Draft
EA TORs were presented in detail by Dr. loan Abrudan (Transilvania University of Brasov).
Comments and suggestions were solicited from participants. The following comments and
recommendations were made:
*  in general, World Bank procedures for EA are more strict than Romanian national
regulations (EPA, RNP, local authorities, representatives);
*  the consultation process for the draft EA report is very wide and more participatory
than for EAs carried out before in the region (representative of Romanel Ltd.);
*  not only should the stakeholders and public from project areas be consulted before
the draft report is finalized, but also the neighboring communities, especially in the
case of road building, as trucks will have to use their roads [Mayors of 3 communes
from Neamt county, recommendation included in the EA TORs - paragraph 5(ii) and
5(d)];
. RNP expressed willingness to support the process as they have had previous
experience with EU Phare funded projects (RNP representative).
Participants in tte Piatra Neanit Consultations, October2, 2000
Nane                 Organization
lovoaia Viorel       S.C. Euroforest
2  Munteanu loan        Primaria Neamt
3  Marlena Manta        Prefectura
4  Nita Vasile          O.S.Varatec
5  Humulescu Traian     C).S.Tg. Neamt
6  Arsinte Neculai      D.S. Piatra Neamt + Progresul Silvic
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT    162               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



Participants in the Piatra Neanit Consuiltatiolls, October 2, 2000
Namie                    Organization
7   Bursuc Corneliu          A.P.M. Neamt
8   Ciuca Neculai            A.P.M. Neamt
9   Corfu Mona               D.S. Piatra Neamt
1() Geana Gheorghe           D.S. Piatra Neamt
11  Domnica Vasiiu           Ziarul Ceahlaul
12  Trifan Ion               Primaria Damuc
13  Menhart Alexandru        Primaria Tarcau
14 lonut Radulescu           Antrec
15 Soimaru Mitrica           Directia Agricola
16 Schioru Constantin        Primaria Ceahlau
17 Vantu Vasile              O.S.Tazlau
18  Cojocaru Niculina        Primaria Tg.Neamt
19  Simsensohn Edith         Grup Scolar Forestier
20  Florea Trifoi            M.A.P.P.M.
21  Abrudan loan             Universitatea Transilvania Brasov
I7 lorgu Oliviu              Parcul Forestier 'Vanatori' Neamt
23  Cozma Lucian             Parcul Forestier 'Vanatori' Neamt
24  Dumitrascu lonel         Forestar Tarcau
25  Irina Alexandrescu       Tele 7 ABC Neamt
26  Camelia Varvara          Ziarul Monitorul
27  Constantin Melinte       Tele M-PRO TV
28  Lupu Gavril              Primaria Harpu
The second consultation was held in Targoviste on October 3, 2000 in the RNP Conference
Room. The meeting started with a description of the FPD components made by Mr. Florea
Trifoi, Project Preparation Team Leader (MWFEP). Draft EA TORs were presented in detail
by Dr. loan Abrudan (Transilvania University of Brasov). The participants (representing 20
forest districts) were asked for any comments and suggestions related to the draft TORs
(into which the recommendation from Piatra Neamt had been incorporated). There were no
suggestions for further improvement.
Participanits in the Targoviste Consultations, October 3, 2000
Nanie                    Organtization
1   Bogdan Nicolae           D.S. Oradea -Vascau
2   Colciar Vasile           D.S. Cluj -OS.Zalau
3   Giurgiu Timoftei         D.S. Baia Mare- O.S. Mara
4   Dusa lie                 D.S. Miercurea Ciuc - O.S. Tulghes
5   Bara Aurel               O.S. Codlea + Progresul Silvic
6   Popescu Emil             O.S. Buzau
7   Greere Ion               O.S.Calimanesti- Valcea
8   Preda V. Gheorghe        O.S. Topoloveni - Arges
9   Prodan Sveatoslav        R.Moldova, I.S.S. Iargarov
10  Glavan llie              R.Moldova, I.S.S. Chisinau
11  Bogorin loan             D.S. Suceava -O.S.Vanna
12  Parvu Nicolae            D.S. Mehedinti -O.S.Orsova
3  Barbu Marian             D.S. Slobozia -O.S.Lehliu
14  Totoescu Adrian          D.S. Suceava -O.S.Marginea
[5  Nevoie llie              D.S. Piatra Neamt -O.S.Borca
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NANAGEMENT             163                   IINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FooD AND FORESTS



Participants in tihe Targoviste Consultations, October 3, 2000
=Naine               Organization
16 Rotariu Gheorghe     D.S. Resita -O.S.Resita
17 Tanase Gheorghc      O.S. Tecuci
18 Vasiiu Petrea        O.S. Galu
19 Fufezan Augustin     O.S. Hunedoara
2) AbTrudan loan        Universitatea Transilvania Brasov
21 Tritoi Florea        MAPPMI
r> Bucsan Codruta       D.S. Sibiu -O.S.Avrig + Progresul Silvic
The third consultation was held in Arad on October 4, 2000 in the RNP Conference Room.
The meeting started with a description of the FPD components made by Mr. Florea Trifoi,
Project Preparation Team Leader (MWFEP). Draft EA TORs were presented in detail by Dr.
loan Abrudan (Transilvania University of Brasov). The participants (representing the main
regional stakeholders) were asked for any comments and suggestions related to the draft of
TORs. The following comments and recommendations were made:
*  the draft TORs are very good and there is no further improvement to be made (RNP and
logging companies representatives);
*  the World Bank procedures for EA are more open and participatory than the Romanian
ones as these required only written approval from some agencies and no public meetings
to discuss the draft report (RNP representatives);
*  RNP will support the process, especially on the aspects related to road construction,
based on the experience gained in this field (RNP representatives);
.  this is a new approach in Romania in terms of EA and the process is welcome
(University representative)
The fourth consultation was held in Bucharest on October 6, 2000, in the MWFEP Meeting
Room. The meeting started with a description of the FPD components made by Mr. Florea
Trifoi, Project Preparation Team Leader (MWFEP). Draft EA TORs were presented in detail
by Dr. loan Abrudan (Transilvania University of Brasov). The participants (representing
main national stakeholders and media) were asked for any comments and suggestions
related to the draft of TORs. The following comments and recommendations were made:
*  this is a new approach in Romania in terms of EA and the process is welcome (MWFEP
representative).
*  the consultation on the EA draft report is too wide (but admitted that the WB guidelines
and procedures in this respect should be followed) (NIW deputy director)
*  RNP has experience in other internationally funded projects and is ready to get involved
in the process (RNP director);
*  ICAS has previous experience with EA studies and is ready to assist (ICAS deputy
director)
*  target groups for the local consultation on the draft EA report should be chosen
according to a clear identification strategy (Dr. Abrudan answered that there is another
consultant preparing the public awareness/communication strategy which includes this
aspect) and NGOs are ready to assist (representative of TER NGO, recommendation
included in the TORs - paragraph 5(d)).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     164               MINLSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Based on the comments received, the draft TORs were finalized, and were included in the
Request for Proposals for Shortlisted Firms to provide assistance in preparing the
Environmental Assessment.
Consultations on the draft andfinial Enzvironmienital Assessment (held in Poiana Brasov in
July 2001 and in Septemnber 2001)
Twvo additional consultations on the draft and final Environmental Assessment were carried
out. The first one was in compliance with World Bank OP 4.01 (para 15) which requires
consultations on the draft EA, and the second was carried out before Appraisal, in
compliance vwith Bank disclosure requirements also outlined in World Bank OP 4.01 (para
15). The second consultation focused very much on the environmental impacts and
mitigation measures associated with the forest roads component.
Participation in these consultations was solicited by invitation and by public notice,
published in the national newspaper ("Adevarul"), and on the MAFF website.
Participanits at the Poiana Brasov Consnitation, Jnly 26 to 28, 2001
Name                    Organization
I    Florea Trifoi           MAAP-UIP
2    loan Abrudan            MAAP-UIP
3    Viorel Marinescu        MAAP-Dept.of Forests
4    Viorica Rabocea         MIR - General Division of Consumer Goods
5    Mihai lonescu           APPR
6    Antoaneta Bugheanu      APPR
7    Dejica Petru            APPR
8    Monica Secareanu        MFP-Division of Foreign Public Finances
9    Comel Han               ASFOR
10   Danut Chira             ICAS
11   Olimpia Dumitru         RNP Romsilva
12   Blaj Tbofil             RNP Romsilva- DS Brasov
13   Constantin Rasnoveanu  INL
14   Marian Dragoi           University of Suceava
15   Mihai lerernia          Forestry Division of Brasov
16   Dan Ardeleanu           CSC
17   Dana Manu               FIMAN
18   Petre Pau               FIMAN-PR & Comunication Strategy
19   Valeria Micu            PR and Comunication
20   Gheorghe Florian Borlea  Timber Committee EEC/ United Nations
21   Ovidiu lonescu          ICAS
22   Vasile Lupu             INTERGROUP ENGINEERING
23   Doru Irimie             MAAP-Dept.of Forests
Participants at the Brasov' Consultation, September 22, 2001
Namle                   Organization
I    Bondici Petru           Forestry Division-Hunedoara
2    Bondici Elena           Forestry Division-Hunedoara
3    Rasnoveanu Constantin   Institutul National al Lemnului
4    Viorica Rabocea         MIR - General Division of Consumer Goods
5    Dejica Petru            APPR
6    Prahoveanu loan         APPR
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           165                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Participants at tlhe Braso' Cotnsulltation, September22, 2001
F     Name                   Organization
7    lonescu Mihai          APPR
8    Ungureanu Doina        APP "Stejarul" Topoloveni-Arges
9    Antoaneta Bugheanu     APPR
10   Cornel Han             ASFOR
11   Viorel Nlarinescu      MAAP
112| Hanganu Horatiu          National Park of "Piatra Craiului"
1| Cojocaru Ovidiu          Forestry Division Brasov
14 | Florea Trifoi          MAAP
15   Secareanu Monica       Ministrv of Public Finances, Division of
l ______________________  Foreign  Public  finance
16   Naiana Zestran         Ministrv of Public Finances, Division of
Foreign Public Finance
17   Blaj Teof il           Forestry Division Brasov, NIAAP-RNP
_ Bucarest
18   Feroiu lancu           APPR (ING NEDERLANDEN) Brasov
Agency
19  loan Vasile Abrudan     Brasov Universitv
20   Silviu Novac           Intergroup Engineering
Particularly with respect to the roads component, these two consultations as well as solicited
comments suggested that there is wide consensus about the economic value associated with
rehabilitation and construction of forest roads. Costs of the companies operating in forest
area decrease significantly decreasing when access is improved. This was widely mentioned
amongst particular stakeholders with interests in forest management. Some cases show that
forest roads are of a regional importance ensuring the communication between two basins
counties or across a mountain barrier.
Some concerns were raised about the impact of forest roads on community access, especially
where forest roads play an important role in this respect, and where traffic from timber
transporters might negatively affect communities. There were concerns raised as well about
the negative environmental impact of earthworks on riverine systems. Indeed, there was
widespread consensus that current methods of roads construction can be environmentally
damaging, and scope for reducing these specific types of impacts through better
construction methods which use more friendly solutions, and which do not harm flora,
rivers and fauna.
Local mayors support the rehabilitation of the forest roads and building of new ones
because they want to be seen by their communities as creating opportunities for new jobs,
and for improving communications with neighboring villages.
The concerns of several NGOs active in the field of biodiversity and habitats protection were
noted, particularly with respect to the alteration of the environment and impacts of forest
roads construction and rehabilitation on populations of protected species such as large
carnivores and herbivores. Road construction and rehabilitation should not be allowed in
big isolated basins, and this should be regulated by legislative initiatives to control and limit
the permits for building new infrastructure in these areas.
Finally, and in addition, during preparation of the sample Environmental Assessments
which were prepared by Intergroup Engineering (reported on in Annex 3 of Volume II),
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT         166                MINISrRy OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



additional local consultations were held with communities in the vicinity of planned roads
rehabilitation sub-projects in Valea Mare-Crizbav and in Paltinoasa (in Brasov and Prahova
Counties, respectively).
During these two consultations, which involved focus group discussions and interviews,
most of those consulted were fairly positive about roads rehabilitation activities, because of
the perception that local benefits will be generated as a result of ts investment.
Communities in these areas are deeply involved in the forestry sector, particularly in
harvesting and transporting timber, and so roads rehabilitation will yield obvious benefits in
terms of reduced costs of extraction. Mayoralties in the zone (Campina, Valea Doftanei,
Brebu, Bertea, Halciu) also reported that they are keen to see the proposed project
implemented. Intergroup concluded that further information dissemination, for example
through the Public Awareness component of the FDP, about the economic value of the
proposed roads would be valuable.
Disclosure of the draft and final Environmental Assessments and Project Informrationt
The draft and final Environmental Assessment was made available in Romania via MAFF,
the PCT, and local NFA offices in counties likely to be affected by roads rehabilitation and
construction (identified from the initial list of priority roads.) Notice of the availability of
the draft and final Environmental Assessments was published in the main national
newspaper ("Adevarul"), and on the project's website (www.forestier.ro).
The final Environmental Assessment was posted on the project's website, as well as through
the World Bank Infoshop (where it was posted on October 31, 2001).
The World Bank Project Information Document was originally posted in December 1999,
and was updated in March 2002.
Government released the draft Project Appraisal Document to institutions or individuals
requesting it, from December 2001, and subsequently posted it on the project website in
January 2002.
Consultations following ProjectAppraisal, held in Brasov on March 21,2002
In response to correspondence with President Wolfensohn and following contacts with CEE
Bankwatch initiated by the Bank, it was agreed that a further NGO consultation should be
convened in Brasov to provide an opportunity for further discussion about the project and
concerns which have been raised. CEE Bankwatch provided a list of NGOs who should be
invited. Correspondence to President Wolfensohn from a group of 17 Romanian NGOs
followed, and these NGOs were also invited to the consultation. The invitation to attend the
consultation was issued on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests by the
GEF-financed  Biodiversity  Conservation  Management Project Unit.  (The  full
correspondence with Bankwatch and concerned NGOs is included in Volume II of this
Environmental Assessment Update, Annex 4.)
The consultation was held on March 21 at the Forestry Faculty in Brasov. Participants
included representatives from Romanian NGOs, CEE Bankwatch, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF), the National Forest Administration, the Romanian
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   167             NIINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Research Institute for Forestry, and the World Bank. The meeting was moderated by
Professor Dan Manoleli, president of the Foundation for the Development of Civil Society.
The objective of the meeting was to provide an opportunity for further consultation about
the project; to enable the Project Preparation Team to explain the objectives, components,
and implementing modalities of the Forest Development Project; to provide clarification
about preparation of the Environmental Assessment, the public consultation process which
accompanied project preparation, and to review the EA's findings and recommendations; to
provide an opportunity for concerns about the project to be discussed (in particular with
respect to forest roads construction and rehabilitation, institutional aspects of the project, the
quality of the EA, and public consultation processes); and to identify whether or not
solutions supported by the project are adequate, and areas and approaches which could be
strengthened or otherwise improved.
The meeting was divided into four sessions. In the first session, Prof. loan Abrudan from
the Project Preparation Team, presented the overall project objectives, structure, and
implementing modalities. The second session was used to identify the key issues of concern,
and to seek clarification about which issues were already addressed by the project and
which issues required further discussion. During the third session, the plenary broke into 3
working groups to examine and discuss these issues in greater detail, and to propose further
steps which could usefully address specific concerns which had been raised. The discussion
and recommendations were presented to the plenary in the fourth session, which was
followed by brief closing remarks from a representative from the World Bank and from a
Romanian NGO.
The main concerns raised were the following (presented here in the order they were tabled
to the meeting during the second session, and recorded on transparencies):
. new forest roads will facilitate the cutting of more trees, especially now when
controls are weak and forest law enforcement is not ensured; the institutional set-up
for law enforcement has to be in place first, before new forest roads construction
begins; (Unesco Pro-Natura)
* the exact perimeters of protected areas are not determined yet; in this situation, there
is a risk that the rehabilitation of old roads will facilitate access to protected areas;
(Amicii Salvamont)
* why should funds and resources be spent to develop a new Roads 'Best Practice
Manual' for Romania, instead of "importing" one already completed from another
country; (CCT Cluj-Napoca)
* what are the modalities for ensuring that project information is made available and
rural communities are more fully consulted with respect to the construction of new
forest roads in to be built in their neighborhood; (CCEG Galati)
*  the quality of the environment assessment is questionable and the environmental
impact of forestry roads construction is not adequately reflected; (Bankwatch)
* the institutional framework in which the FDP will operate is not strong enough to
address the possibilities of illegal logging, corruption and state capture; (Bankwatch)
* public participation and consultation during project preparation was insufficient;
(Bankwatch)
* how does the size of forest road construction and rehabilitation under the FDP
compare with the size of the current Romanian forestry road network, and with the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT   168               M]INiSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



size of the forestry roads to be built using budgetary, extrabudgetary and other
donors resources; is the FDP forestry road component a pilot operation or not;
* what are the consequences of doing nothing for rehabilitation of roads, considering
that the long skidding distances on non-rehabilitated roads lead to increased losses
and damage of forests; (ICAS)
* what is the current status and control capacity of the Forestry Inspectorates of the
MAFF, what is the endowment that the FDP provides to strengthen their capacity,
and is this enough to make them effective; will the Forestry Inspectorates ensure also
the functions of a Forestry Police;
* what are the multiple functions of the forestry roads, and what their quality should
be in the conditions of a sustainable silviculture; (Faculty of Silviculture)
* what is the impact of forestry roads on biodiversity;
* what are the economic returns of the FDP, from which the loan will be paid back; are
these economic returns coming from increased wood harvesting or something else;
* the concept of "sustainable forest development" needs to be put in the larger context
of "sustainable national development"; there are winners and losers in any change
process, and one needs to assess whether the change (brought by the FDP in this
case) will have a positive overall impact after all.
A subsequent discussion ensued during the plenary to clarify the issues which had been
tabled, and to provide more information about the project. The moderator proposed, and the
plenary agreed, that the issues identified could be grouped into three areas which could
help to guide group discussions. The group discussions focused on three main topics: (i)
forest roads; (ii) environmental assessment and public participation; and (iii) institutions
and corruption. The main ideas and suggestions were the following (summarized from the
transparencies presented to the plenary):
Forest roads.
* The 'Best Practice Manual,' used to guide forest roads rehabilitation and construction,
would be. developed in a manner which would be specific to Romanian conditions.
The experience from other countries would be incorporated into the Manual if these
were thought to be appropriate and could strengthen it. The building practices
outlined in the Manual would be incorporated as legally-binding commitments with
contractors responsible for construction and rehabilitation.
*  The impact of the forest roads rehabilitation program needs to be considered
carefully. NFA reiterated that it expected to rehabilitate these roads anyway, even
without IBRD financing. The objective is largely to pilot new approaches toward
roads rehabilitation and construction to provide a model and a demonstration with
potentially positive impacts on future forest roads construction and rehabilitation.
* The meeting agreed that no roads should be built until steps had been taken to
strengthen the Forest Inspectorates. Roads development is not expected to start until
the second or third year of the project, while the strengthening of Forest
Inspectorates is expected to begin in the first project year. This should be an
important prior condition before roads work begins.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT   169              NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



*  Information about forest roads rehabilitation and construction should be available to
rural communities which might be affected by them. The negative impacts of the
roads program on protected areas should be minimized. The Best Practice Manual
will include guidance with respect to how public consultations should be convened.
All roads, whether rehabilitated or newly constructed, will be subject to an
environmental screening process, and those with likely significant environmental
impacts will be subject to an environmental assessment and the development of
mitigation steps. No roads will be built in protected areas.
Environniental Assess7tenit anid Puiblic Participationi
It was agreed that the Environmental Assessment needs to be improved. The primary areas
which need to be strengthened in the Environmental Assessment include:
*  The differences between the role of a Strategic Environmental Assessment and an
assessment of the environmental impacts of project-specific impacts needs to be
substantially clarified, and the EA needs to consider very specifically those impacts
which can be clearly articulated in terms of their project impacts, and sector-wide
impacts of the proposed investment.
*  The Environmental Assessment must be improved by adding substantial additional
information which is not fully reported upon, particularly with respect to fuller
information about the project, the location of the initial list of roads targeted for
rehabilitation or construction, changes to the legal framework which may impact
project implementation, information about the consultation process which was used
both to inform preparation of the project and to improve the Environmental
Assessment, maps (as appropriate) and other information about initiatives with
respect to public activities to conserve biodiversity (including the GEF-financed
Biodiversity Conservation Management Project).
.  The text and recommendations which are outlined in Annex IIA       of the
Environmental Assessment ['Initial Report on Environmental Aspects of Forest
Roads Component' prepared by Fortech, Dames and Moore, and Project
Management (Ireland)] should be incorporated into the Environmental Assessment
as an integral part of it, and should be used to develop binding recommendations
during construction.
.  The impacts of project investments on harvesting should be considered and
incorporated into the Environmental Assessment, and used to develop mitigation
actions, as information allows.
*  More information should be provided about the project alternatives considered, and
the reasons for their rejection.
Institutions, Govemance, and Corruption
The meeting sought further information about plans to strengthen the capacity of Forest
Inspectorates and investments in equipment to improve their ability to do their job. More
information was provided to those requesting it, and it was agreed that they would further
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT   170               NIINI5TRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



consider if the investments and capacity strengthening provided by the FDP will be
sufficient for them to perform their functions.
The meeting discussed the relationship between the National Forest Administration (NFA)
and the Forest Inspectorates in MAFF, and whether they are genuinely independent from
one another, or if there are possible conflicts of interest between the two institutions. The
meeting discussed the scope for placing the Forest Inspectorates under an alternative
institution, such as the Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection (MWEP) to
maintain an arms-length distance between the Inspectorate and the NFA. The meeting
recommended that the component of the project dealing with restructuring of the NFA
should include a studv to improve the institutional structure which considers the need for
clearer separation between controlling and administrative functions.
The meeting questioned why the Association of Private Forest Owners had been specifically
identified for support through the project. The Association was identified as one of the only
stakeholder groups, at the time of project preparation, with interests in improving the
capacity of private forest owners to undertake sustainable forest management. The meeting
recommended that clear eligibility criteria to benefit from FDP should be established for
other associations with interests in improving the capacity of private forest owners to
undertake sustainable forest management.
The meeting discussed concerns about corruption in the sector and illegal harvesting, and
recommended that the impact of the project on corruption should be more fully assessed.
The Bank countered that because proper diagnostic work had not been carried out with
respect to corruption, it would be impossible to assess the project's likely impact in this
regard. The Bank agreed that it would seek resources to carry out a diagnostic study of
corruption in the forest sector, and that the results from this study should be used to inform
future actions to address it within the wider framework of Government's anti-corruption
strategy.
In closing remarks, the Bank indicated that it viewed this consultation as one of many, and
that it would seek to support future consultations, in particular noting that Government had
agreed to include a representative of the NGO community on the Project Oversight
Committee. The Bank also agreed that it would support any Government initiative which
sought to improve the Environmental Assessment, which should be viewed (in conjunction
with the Environmental Mitigation Plan) as a dynamic document subject to change as
experience during project implementation is gained.
A representative from Clubul Ecologic Transilvania was invited also to make closing
comments. He welcomed the opportunity for consultation and indicated that it was not the
intention of the NGO's represented at the meeting to stop the project, but simply to find a
way to improve it.
Participants at the Brasov Consultation, March 21, 2002
Name                 Institutional Affiliation
1   Daroczi Szilard      NGO - Grupul Milvus Tg. Mures
2   Zeitz Robert         NGO - Grupul Milvus Tg. Mures
3   Done Tatiana         NGO - Fundatia de Speologie Bucovina
4   Negrea Ion           NGO - Cerotin Tg. Jiu
5   Cornoiu Sabin         NGO - Amnicii Salvamont Tg. Jiu
ENVIRONMENTAL RRSOURCES IANAGEMENT     171              MIINITRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Participants at thte Braso7' Constultation, Marcih 21, 2002
|Namxe                    Instituttiontal Affiliation
6   1 Lengvel Peter           NGO - Unesco Pronatura Bucuresti
7    Kelemen Andrei           NGO - Clubul Ecologic Transilvania Cluj Napoca
8    Mititean Radu            NGO - Clubul de Cicloturism Montan Cluj Napoca
9    Rachita Doina            World Bank, Bucuresti
1()  lonescu Nlihai           Romanian Asociation of Private Forest Owners
11   Borlea Florian           NGO - Pro Silva Europa, Timisoara
12   Marinescu Viorel         Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests
13   Manu Dana                NGO - FIMAN, Bucuresti
14   Cazan loan               National Wood Institute, Brasov
15   lonescu Ovidiu           Forest Research and Management Planning Institute, Bucuresti
16   Trifoi Florea            Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests
17   Florescu Ion             NGO - Progresul Silvic
18   Mihai Dragos             National Forest Administration, Bucuresti
19   Predoiu George           NGO - Societatea Cinegetica Romana
20   lonescu Georgeta         NGO - Fundatia Carpati, Brasov
21   Bischoff Casandra        World Bank, Bucuresti
22   Verghelet Mircea         Piatra Craiului National Park
23   Petrescu Dan             World Bank, Bucuresti
24   Dewees Peter             World Bank, Washington
25   Bontempo David           World Bank, Washington
26   Feiler Jozsef            NGO - CEE Bankwatch Network, Budapest
27   Malbasic Ivona           NGO - CEE Bankwatch Network, Budapest
28   Moisi Petruta            NGO - Centrul de Consultanta Ecologica, Galati
29   Manoleli Dan             NGO - Fundatia pentru Dezvoltarea Societatiu Civile, Bucuresti
30   Savulescu Alexandru      NGO - ARZM / Perspective, Bucuresti
31   Parvulescu lulian        NGO - Asociatia Speologica Exploratoriu Resita
32   Paranici Bogdan          NGO - Alianta pentru Natura, Bucuresti
33   Stan Victoria            NGO - Fundatia Edelweiss, Sibiu
34   Abrudan loan             Transilvania University of Brasov
Individuals consulted during preparation of the Forest Development Project
In addition to formal public consultations which were undertaken, the following individuals
were consulted during preparation of the Environrmental Assessment:
Irldividuals consulted during preparation of tihe FDP
Name                    Organization
Viorel Ghelasa          Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests- Secretarv of State
Viorel Marinescu        Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests- Director
Adrian Popa             Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests- Director
Florea Trifoi           Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests - Director PCT
BCMP
Mihai Costache          Ministry of Waters and Environmental Protection
Valerica Grigoras       Ministry of Waters and Environmental Protection
Monica Secareanu        Ministry of Public Finance
Viorica Rabocea         Ministry of Industries and Resources
Mihai Daia              National Forest Administration, Bucharest
Dragos Mihai            National Forest Administration, Bucharest
Ion Bara                National Forest Administration, Codlea
Ovidiu Cojocaru         National Forest Administration, Sacel-Sibiu
Anca loanitescu         Environmental Protection Agency
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT            172                  NMINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FOREST5



In,dizvid uals co?isulted during prepara tion of the FDP
Namne                   Organizatioll
Mihai lonescu           Association of Private Forest Owners, Brasov
Ion Sbera               Association of Romanian Foresters
Gheorghita lonascu      Transilvanai University of Brasov, PPT
loan Abrudan            Transilvania Universitv of Brasov, PPT
Stefan Vasile           Universitv of Bucharest
Nicolae Geambasu        Forest Research and Management Planning Institute
loan Cazan              National Wood Institute, PPT
Verghelet Mircea        Piatra Craiului National Park Administration
Sevastel Mircea         SAPARD Agencv, Bucuresti
Gheorghe Gavrilescu     NGO-Progresul Silvic, Bucuresti
Ion Florescu            NGO-Progresul Silvic, Brasov
Jeno Ferko              NGO-Grupul Verde, Oradea
Georgeta lonescu        NGO-Fundatia Carpati, Brasov
Sorin Lungu             NGO-OSS Silva, Brasov
lonut Gondos            NGO-OSS Silva, Brasov
Radu Kubinski           NGO-The Intemational Management Foundation, Bucuresti
Petre Paul              NGO-The International Management Foundation, Bucuresti
Dana Manu               NGO-The International Management Foundation, Bucuresti
Alexandru Marinescu     NGO-Asociatia Generala de Sprijin Pentru Dezvoltare Rurala
Gheorghe Dragomir       NGO-Asociatia Culturala Romania in Lume, Bucuresti
Stelian Popescu         NGO-Asociatia Forest Consulting Romania, Bucuresti
Tincuta Ciubotariu      NGO-Asociatia Nemteanca, Tg. Neamt
Lucian lonescu          NGO-Asociatia Terra Nostra, Bucuresti
Mircea Facas            NGO-Fundatia pentru Dezvoltare Locala Partner, Tg. Neamt
Florian Borlea          NGO-ProSilva Romania, Timisoara
Elena Cucu              NGO-Fundatia de Dezvoltare Locala Speranta, T g. Neamt
Dan lonescu             NGO - Romanian Ornithological Society
Cristiana Pasca         NGO-Fauna and Flora International, Romania
Niegel Coulson          NGO-Fauna and Flora International, UK
Zbigniew Karpowicz      NGO-Fauna and Flora International, UK
Radu Paunescu           Intergroup, Bucuresti
Andrew Mitchell         Fortech Damnes&Moore, UK, PPT
Heniy Philips          Project Management, Ireland, PP7T
James Ramsey            Fortech Dames&Moore, UK, PPT
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT             173                  MINGTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



APPENDIX 4: PROTECTED AREAS OF ROMANIA (MAP, LOCATION, AREA)
There are 18 formally protected Biosphere Reserves and National and Natural Parks in
Romania covering a total area of 1.1 million ha. Their locations are identified by number in
Figure 7. The legend for the map in Figure 7 follows:
Maly                              National        Initernatiornal   Approximnate
Refererrce   Namre                   Statuhs           Statrrs         Area (hra)
1.       Muntii Rodnei        National Park   Biosphere Reserve          46,399
2.       Calimani             National Park                              24,041
3.       Vantatori Neamt      Natural Park
4.       Ceahl3u              National Park                               8,396
D.       Cheile Bicazului -   National Park                               6,575
Hamas
6.       Balta Micaa Braila   Natural Park    Ramsar Site                17,529
7.       Muntii MAcinului     National Park                              11,321
8.       Delta Dunarii        National Park   Biosphere Reserve         580,000
Ramsar Site
World Heritage Site
9.       Bucegi               Natural Park                               32,663
10.       Piatra Craiului      National Park                             14,800
11.       Cozia                National Park                             17,100
12.       Gradi.tea            Natural Park                              10,000
Muncelului -
Cioclovina
13.       Retezat              National Park   Biosphere Reserve         38,047
14.       Domogled-Valea       National Park                             60,100
Cernei
15.       Portile de Fier      Natural Park                            115,655.8
16.       Cheile Nerei -       National Park                             37,100
Beu5nita
17.       Semenic Cheile       National Park                             36,664
Cara5ului
18.       Muntii Apuseni       Natural Park                               75,784
As described in Law 5/2000
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES IANAGEMENT              174                  NIINISTRYOF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORES5T



Figure 7: Romania Biosphere Reserves, National, and Natural Parks
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   175                     N1iNSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



In addition to these 18 National Parks, Natural Parks, and Biosphere Reserves, there are a
large number of additional scientific and natural reserves, and natural monuments which
have a different legal status. Many of these are quite small. Formal boundaries for the vast
majority of these sites have not been identified or demarcated. Assistance which is being
provided through the GEF Biodiversitv Conservation Management Project is partly
designed to assist Government in completing this task. These 827 sites account for a total of
232,076 ha. Of these, 134 sites (accounting for 56 percent of the total area) are found within
the boundaries of National Parks, Natural Parks, and Biosphere Reserves. A map showing
the number and area of these sites, by County is shown in Figure 8.
Figure 8: Number/Area of Scientific Reserves, Natural Reserves, and Natural Monuments,
by CouMUty
h        33/5415 hai   25 SV48 h
g  BH <_Ji haf ,Q5/3309   4 h       ,24/5024
,6011 33 ha>                        >f 213/24530ha
216425 ha  4128 ha V 
(, <>~~~~~ / g ~~~HR                        B 8/228 hak
g AR ! 36/~~~~~~~5168            h  15/201 ha\ 
14/3454 a     228          86 h\ <54015 1          878   18h
< CS =; | ~~~~~~AG                                 BR17 
47309    >64522        2964 Z  028  t  D8}539    t   /31 haX 24/46096 ha
32    0r ha 9t 
f S18/545~   6 1ha                 ha TST
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES bIANACEMENT     176               MINISTRYOF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



APPENDIX 5: PRELIMINARY LIST OF ROADS REHABILITATION AND CONSTRUCTION SUB-PROJECTS
AND MAPS
A list of the roads which have been initially identified as sub-projects for rehabilitation or
construction follows. This is a preliminary list, which was used to establish the potential
costs and benefits of the forest roads program, to evaluate economic impacts of reduced
extraction costs, and to assist in developing a means of screening proposed roads for their
environmental and social impacts. An earlier list of 91 roads was rescreened, and 20 of these
roads were rejected because they did not meet the criteria for investment. These roads
accounted for around 90 km of the initial list of roads proposed for rehabilitation (or 18
percent of the 500 km of roads initially identified for rehabilitation), and around 25 km of the
initial list of roads proposed for construction (or around a third of the 80 km of roads
initially identified for new construction). Additional sub-projects will be identified during
the course of project implementation which will account for the balance of road works
financed by the project. No new sub-projects have been identified since the project was
Appraised.
As part of the environmental and social screening process during project implementation,
the Project Management Team will prepare a notice in June of every year for publication in
the national press of additional sub-projects which are identified for financing by the FDP
and will seek public comment as part of the regular cycle of screening and review which is
to be established.
The roads in the following list, as well as other subprojects identified for construction or
rehabilitation will be subject to further environmental screening during project
implementation. A full EA of each road which is judged to have the potential for significant
adverse impacts will be undertaken to identify how these impacts can be mitigated. These
proposed road-specific EA procedures are fully consistent with World Bank OP 4.01 which
allows for the preparation of subproject-specific environmental assessments during the
preparation of each proposed subproject.
The list of roads identified for rehabilitation and construction remains simply a list.
Subprojects will be further evaluated and prepared during implementation of the full
project. The project will finance the development of a Best Practice Manual which outlines
environmental standards (including screening and environmental assessment procedures) to
be followed during identification, rehabilitation, and construction. Compliance with the Best
Practice Manual will be a contractual obligation. Road works are only expected to be
launched in the second year of the project to ensure that the Best Practice Manual is
completed to an acceptable standard. The standard of requiring environmental screening
and assessment of forest roads in Romania, and the preparation of the Best Practice Manual,
meets EU standards for forest road construction in Western Europe as well as Romanian
national standards for environmental assessment.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NANAGEMENT    177              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Preliminary List of Roads Relabilitationt and Cotistructionl Slb-projects, and Map Refereices
1     Of                       r                 Dista,lce (knl)  Estim.ated
Map                                       New or           Distance (kui)  Ecotiomic
Number I Coliuity       Name               Relhabilitationi  Newo  Relhab     Return
I    i Alba         I Paraul Calului    New road         2.0                65%
2     J Alba         Rosioara           New road         2.3                14%so
3      Alba          Valea Ruzii        Rehabilitation            8.5       10%
4      Alba          Valea Galatiului   Rehabilitation            7.0       16%
5      Arad          Latesti            Rehabilitation   3.6                59%
6     | Arad         Daboaca            New road         6.3                3 5_3Do
7     j Arad         Valae              Rehabilitation            4.3       17%-.
8     | Arad         Valea Cioltului    New road                  1.3       29%
9      Arad          Valea luga         Rehabilitation            3.8        8%
10      Arges       | Bunca              New road         1.7                6%
11      Arges         Fiasu Olanele      New road         2.0               14'o%
12      Arges         Brateasa           Rehabilitation           3.0        18%
13      Arges         Zigoneni           Rehabilitation           6.0        19%
14      Arges         Dobroneagu         Rehabilitation           10.5       22%
15      Arges         Cumpenita          Rehabilitation           4.6        24%
16      Arges         Valea Satului      Rehabilitation           6.3        19%
17      Vaslui        Duraceasa          Rehabilitation           3.0        59o
18      Bacau         Rotaru Slanic      Rehabilitation            2.7       23 %
19      Bacau         Limbar prel.       New road         2.3  _             29%
20      Bacau         Ghedeon            Rehabilitation            1.9       14%
21      Bacau         Covata             Rehabilitation            4.3       2 5/%
22      Bacau         Casoasa Frasin     Rehabilitation            4.0       15%
23      Bacau         Larga              Rehabiitation             3.3       56%
24      Bihor         Sub Baceasa        New road         3.8                12%
25      Brasov        Pojorata           Rehabilitation            1.7       29%
26      Brasov        Cremenea Cr.       Rehabilitation            3.3       14%
27      Brasov        Crizbav            Rehabilitation            2.3       25%
28      Buzau         Basca Mare         Rehabilitation            7.0       31%
29      Buzau         Basca Mica         Rehabilitation           23.0       28%
30      Caras         Bistra Maru        Rehabilitation           12.1       26%
31      Cluj          Dudaie             New road         3.3                42%
32      Cluj          Caprita            New road         1.3  1             17%
33      Covasna       Darnaul Mic        Rehabilitation            2.4       12%
34      Dambovita     Priboiu            Rehabilitation            2.4       24%
35      Dambovita     Buturoaia          Rehabilitation            5.6       11%
36      Dambovita     Ruda Seaca         Rehabilitation           11.8       23%
37      Dambovita     Negoaia Valea Ma   Rehabilitation            8.3       14%
38      GoO           Motru cu Apa       Rehabilitation            12.8      19%
39      Goo           Oltet              Rehabilitation            19.7      26%
40      Goo           Gilort             Rehabilitation            18.0      26%
41      Hunedoara     Tomnatec           New road         5.6                32%
42      Hunedoara     Dobra              Rehabilitation            15.0      24%
43      Maramures     Vaser              Rehabilitation            54.0      27%
44      Maramures     Bercului           Rehabilitation            14.5      48%
45      Maramures     Puturoasa          Rehabilitation            5.5       102%
46      Maramures     Socalau            Rehabilitation            11.6      39%
47      Mehedinti     Valea Mare         Rehabilitation            7.8       34%
48      Mures         Fancel Lapusna     Rehabilitation            5.0       47%
49      Neamt         Cirestului         New road         4.5                24%
50      Neamt         Pr. Grajdului pr   New road         1.7                19%
51      Neamt         Cuejdel ob.        New road         2.8                26%
52      Prahova       Vulpea             Rehabilitation            3.2       11%
53      Prahova       Paltinoasa         Rehabilitation            7.8       15%
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT             178                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Preliminaryj List of Roads Rehlabilitationt and Construction Subl rojects, and Map References
I                 Distance (kti)  Estiniated
Map                                      New or                          Ecotnotmiic
Number    Coulty        Name              Relhabilitationl  New  Relhab     Return
54      Prahova      Limbasel           Rehabilitation          17.9      14%
55     Sibiu         Izvoru Florii      Rehabilitation          2.3       11%
56     Sibiu         Nlancu Sulita Dra  Rehabilitation          7.2       37%
57     Sibiu         Sadurel Porcu      Rehabilitafion          18.3      22%
58     Suceava       Valea Colibei      New road        2.5                5%
59     Suceava       Dubul              New road        4.5               31%
60     Suceava       Mlaca              Rehabilitation          3.5        7%
61     Suceava       Ehriste            Rehabilitation          2.1       12%
62     Tiunis        Hamnos             Rehabilitation           5.1      37%
63     Timis         Carliontu          Rehabilitation          3.5       22%
64     Timis         Drinova            Rehabilitation          8.0       19%
65     Valcea        Mihaescu           New road        3.8               10%
66     Valcea        Cerna              Rehabilitation          4.0       23 %
67     Vrancea       Valea Neagra       Rehabilitation          5.0       20%
68     Vrancea       Motnau             Rehabilitation          12.0      13%
69     ICAS          Rapa Fetii         New road        1.9               20%
70        Harghita   Pod Pantec         Rehabilitation           1.0      25%
71      Harghita    I Barasau           Rehabilitation           9.2      35%
Total identified Sub-projects                              55.9    428.4
lTo assist in the preliminary sub-project screening process, nine maps were prepared
showing the roads which have been initially identified for rehabilitation or construction.
These maps follow. The first map (Figure 9) gives an approximate orientation of each of the
nine detailed maps which follow. Roads on the detailed map which have been identified for
rehabilitation appear in grey and new roads are identified in pink (for black and white
maps, refer to the above listing). The maps were originally prepared at a scale of 1:700,000,
but this scale has been altered because of reproduction in this report.
The location of the Vaser Railway is also identified, which has initially been targeted for
rehabilitation, and is marked as number 43 on Figure 15.
ENVIRONMENTAL RPJSOURCES MANAGEMENT           179                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figure 9: Approximate Orientation of Detailed Maps Showing Location of Roads Identified
in Preliminary Screening for Rehabilitation or Construction
ENVIRONMIENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT           180                   NIINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figure 10: Locationi of proposed rehabilitationt and constructioni, Valcea (Map 1)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                      181                     NIINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figure 11: Location of proposed rehabilitation anid construction, Suceava (Map 2)
P  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
E N V I RONM ENTA L RESOU RCES NIA N AGE M ENT  182  M I N STRY OF AGR ICU LTU RE, FOOD A N D FOR ESTS
ENVIRONMENTAL REsoURCES MANAGEMENT               182                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTh



Figure 12: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Prahova (Map 3)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESoURCES MANAGEMENT                    183                     )VIIN6TRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figure 13: Locationt of proposed rehabilitation and construictioni, Neamt (Map 4)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT                   184                     MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figure 14: Locationi of proposed rehabilitationi and constructioni Mehiedinti (Map 5)
..''~~~~~~~~'g''S       e~~~~~~~:
;.           < Q     ,~~4N
;       1             !# Q        z       
._l11 a 
ENVIRONMENTALRESOURCES MANAGEMENT       185               MINiSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figure 15: Location of proposed rehabilitationt and construction, Maraniures (Map 6)
z~~~~~~~~~~~
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT              186                 NMINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figure 16: Location of proposed rehabilitation and constriction, Bucarest (Map 7)
E V O E A E U E A A M T8M I R F G U U , O N O S
ENVIRONMIENTAL REsouRCEsMANAGEMENJT     187              MINETRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FoRES



Figure 17: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Hunedora (Map 8)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES N(ANAGEMENT                     1 CO                     MINSTrRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Figure 18: Location of proposed rehabilitation and construction, Cluj (Map 9)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MIANAGEMENT                     189                       IINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



APPENDIx 6: PROTECTION FORESTS: FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES AND PERMISSIBLE FELLING
SYSTEMS IN ROMANIA
Classificationis Of Sil7'icultural Systems Arid Felling Regitles
Coditig        Classificationt
TI             No felling
Tll            Conservation felling (sanitation andi/or safety)
Tlll           Selection or group selection system felling
TIV            Selection or group selection svstem  felling and restricted
shelterwood svstem felling
Functional Group 1: "Protection Forests"
Functional Subgroup 1.1: Forests With Water Protection Function
Suibgroutp  Descriptiotn                                                      Silvicuiltutral
systen
1.1.a)     forests in well and water source protection areas, mapped based on  (Tll);
relevant studies and approved by the Ministry of Silviculture
1.1.b)     forests on slopes adjacent to lakes/reservoirs                    (Tlll);
1.1.c)     forests on slopes in mountain and hilly regions up to 15 - 30 km  (TIV);
distance from the lakes/reservoirs and in their collection watershed
1.1.d)     forests along Danube river banks and Danube Delta and along the   (TIV);
interior rivers
l.1.e)     forests in the vicinity of river floors                            (TIll);
1.1.)      forests in the area between the river floor and river bank area    (TIV);
1.1.g)     forests in watersheds with active torrents                        (TIll);
1.1.h)     forests for protection of water sources (wells) for trout farms and on the
slopes surrounding trout farms (minimum 100 ha);
1.1.i)     dwarf pine in the vicinity of alpine meadows                       (TIl).
Functional Subgroup 1.2: Forest With Site And Soil Protection Function
Suibgroutp   Description                                                    Silvicultural
system
1.2.a)       forests on stony slopes, debris with slopes steeper than 40o, flisch  (T ?)
[colluvium?] with slopes steeper than 35o, sandy soils with slopes
steeper than 300, and any steep slope with high erosion
1.2.b)       forests (entire compartments) adjacent to public roads and     (THI);
railways in broken terrain
1.2.c)       forests surrounding alpine meadows, in strips 100 - 300 m wide  (Tll);
(width according to the site conditions and structure of stands)
1.2.d)       forests surrounding industrial and hydrotechnical structures at a  (TH);
minimum radius of 50 m and at a maximum radius depending on
the erosion/landslide conditions
1.2.e)       forest plantation on degraded/eroded lands                     (Tll);
1.2.0        forests in areas where avalanches are originating or run-off  (Tll);
1.2.g)       forests on moving sands                                        (Tlll);
1.2.h)       forests in landsliding areas                                   (Tll);
1.2.i)       forests in swamp areas                                         (Tll);
1.2.j)       forests around open mines in strips 100-300 m   wide (width    (TlR);
according to the site conditions and structure of stands)
1.2k)        forests in karst areas                                         (TIV);
1.2.1)       forests on land with erosion/sliding vulnerability, with slopes  (TIV).
ENVIRONMENTAL REsOURcES MANAGEMENT               190                  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Subgrouqp     Description                                                     Silvicultural
systein
lower than those mentioned at 1.2.a
Functional Subgroup 1.3: Forest With Protection Function Against Climatic And Industrial Threat Factors
Suibgrouip   Description                                                      Silzyiculttural
sylste7nl
1.3.a)       steppe forests, forests situated at the limit between steppe - silvo-  (TIlI);
steppe, except riverine forests
1.3.b)       forests near Black Sea and seaside lakes, at a radius of 15 km   (T[l);
1.3.c)       oak forests under conservation in plain areas                    (Tll);
1.3.d)       forests from the surrounding compartments of reservoirs and fish  (Tll);
lakes
1.3.e)       alignments    and   hedges    protecting   agricultural  lands,  (Tll);
communication ways, industrial objectives and localities
1.3.0        forests at high altitudes with difficult regeneration conditions  (Tll);
1.3.g)       scattered forests in the plain region with an area smaller than 100  (Tlll);
ha
1.3.h)       forests in areas with high air pollution, identified b) studies  (Tll);
approved by the Ministry of Silviculture
1.3.i)       forests in areas with low   air poUution, identified by studies  (TlIl);
_  approved by the Ministry of Silviculture
1.3.j)       forests surrounding ash, sterile and waste heaps at a radius of 2 km  (Til);
according to the threats to the environment
1.3.k)       forest edges (limits) situated in plain regions, in strips up to 20 m  (TIl).
wide
Functional Subgroup 1.4: Forest With Recreation Function
Suibgrouip   Descriptioni                                                     Silvicultural
Sy_stent
1.4.a)       park forests and other high recreation value forests, as established  (Tll);
_  by the Ministry of Silviculture
1.4.b)       pen-urban forests, of size established based on criteria of number  (TIll);
of inhabitants (as set by the Ministry of Silviculture)
1.4.c)       forests with very high functional value surrounding resorts or   (Tll);
hospitals, approved by the Ministry of Silviculture
1.4.d)       forests with medium and high functional value surrounding resorts  (TIll);
or hospitals, approved by the Ministry of Silviculture
1.4.e)       forests of landscape value around cultural sites (established by law)  (Til);
at a radius of up to lkm, according to the importance of the site
1.4.0        forest strips around hotels, motels, camping sites etc., at a radius of  (Tll);
up to 1 km and an area of up to 50 ha, according to the importance
of the place
1.4.g)       forests around co-operatives and agricultural farm centres, at a  (Tll);
radius of up to 1 km and an area of up to 50 ha
1.4.h)       forests situated at a distance up to 2 km from villages in the plain  (Tll);
region, and of an area up to 50 ha
1.4.i)       entire compartments along the communication ways of high          (THl);
tourism interest
1.4.j)       forests managed for game conservation or intensive management    (TIV);
1.4.k)       forests protecting special locations, approved by the Ministry of  (TrI);
Silviculture
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MlANAGEMENT                191                   MINISTRY OF ACRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Functional Subgroup 1.5: Forest Of Scientific Interest And For The Protection Of Forest Genetic Fund
Suibgroutp  Descriptioni                                                       Silvicultural
syste,n
l.5.a)     core areas of the national parks established by law                  (TO);
1.5.b)     natural parks. aiming to preserve the natural landscape             (TIll);
1.5.c)     nature reserves                                                     (TI),
1.5.d)     scientific reserves                                                 (TI);
1.3.e)     landscape reserves established by law                               (TI),
1.5.f)     natural monuments                                                   (TI);
1.3.g)      forests where scientific research /experimental permanent plots are  (TII);
locatedl
1.5.h)     seed reserves                                                       (Tll);
1.5.i)     forests designated for the protection of fauna species (capercaillie, bear,  (Tll),
chamois), established by the Ministry of Silviculture
1.5.j)     old-growth forests of high value and forests of very rare species,  (TIl);
delineated by the Ministry of Agriculture                          _
1.5k)      dendrological parks and arboreta                                    (TlI)
The extent of felling in each silvicultural system        will be determined on the basis of site
conditions and the condition and stocking of the stand in question so that any harvesting is
consistent with principles of sustainable forest management.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT               192                   NINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORES1S



APPENDIX 7: LIST OF UNDISTURBED FORESTS IN ROMANIA
The National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan for Romania (1996) listed 20 forests
which were deemed to be important for their biodiversity. These are presented in the table
below.
Forests of Importance for tiheir Biodiversity Valuc
No. Name of Forest      Surface area  Type of forest
(ha)
I    Piatra Craiului*   1932 + 1459   Spruce forest, mixed beech and coniferous
2     Runca-Grosi           932       Qlercus sessiliflora forests
3    Vorona                 150       Mixed forest of Querctis sessiliflora, beech and lime
4  T   udora                120       Mixed forest of Quiercuts sessiliflora, beech and lime
5     Bucegi             1634 + 3748  Larch, spruce forests; mixed beech and fir forests
6     Izoarele Nerei        6261      Beech forests
7     Domogled              2743      Black pine (Pinus nigra var. bannatica) forest; Beech
forest on limestone
8     Dognecea Forest       316       Mixed forests of Q. sessiliflora, Q. cems, Q. frainctio,
lime and beech
9     Rachiteanu Forest     1200      Montane beech forest
10    Humosu                 73       Hill beech forest
11   Slatioara              854       Mixed forest of beech, fir and spruce
12   Giumalau               314       Spruce forests
13    Letea                 2825      Oak, ash and poplar forest on maritime sands
14   Caraorman              2250      Oak, ash and poplar forest on maritime sands
15    Latorita               7        Larch forests
16    Retezat*'            13,000     Spruce forest; Mixed beech, fir and spruce forest;
Beech forest; Pine forest
17   Calimani                -        Mixed forest of spruce and Pinus cemibra; spruce
forests
18   Polita cu Crini        370       Mixed spruce, larch, spruce, beech forest; Larch and
spruce forests
19   Cozia                   -        Beech forests; mixed beech- coniferous forest; Q.
sessiliflora forest
20    Vidalm                          Larch forests
National Park
UNESCO Biosphere Reserve.
A separate study, recently completed by the Forest Management and Research Institute
(Institutul de Cercetari si Amenajari Silvice, or ICAS), identified 75 forests which it
maintained were 'undisturbed' and were worthy of protection. These are listed in the
following table.
Undisturbed Forests of Importance for thteir Conservation Value
Location                                            Area (ha)
.1     Abruptul Nordic al Bucegilor                           850
2      Abruptul Nordic al Fagarasului                         5000
3      Abruptul Pietrei Craiului                              630,4
4      Abruptul Prahovean al Bucegilor                        1521
5      Aries                                                  751
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT              193                    IINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FOREST5



Undisturbed Forcsts of hmportance for thzeir Conservation Valuie
Location                                         Area (ha)
6      Bargau                                              500
7      Belareca                                           309.5
8      Bila-Lala                                           250
9      Bistra Mica                                        1150
10     Bota Mare-Zabratau                                  70
11     Calimnani                                          507.5
12     Cantoria                                           39.45
13     Carligu Mare                                        480
14     Cazanele Dunarii                                    200
15     Cetatea Radesei-lzvoarele Somesului               1179.7
16     Cheile Bicazului-Lacul Rosu                         600
17     Cheile Nerei-Beusnita                              1612.6
18     Cheile Oltetului                                    150
19     Cheile Sohodolului                                  350
20     Cheile Susarei                                      246
21     Cheile Tatarului                                   144.3
22     Cheile Topologului (Valea Sutu, V. Cloaca)          600
23     Cheile Zarnestilor                                 109.8
24     Ciucas                                             1042
25     Ciucevelele Cemei                                   680
26     Ciuha Neamtului                                     850
27     Codrul Secular Ciuria                               327
28     Codrul Secular Giumalau                            309.5
29     Codrul Secular Slatioara                           369.3
30     Comorisnita                                        2750
31     Cormaia                                             687
32     Coronini Bedina                                    1917.7
33     Defileul Jiului                                     1800
34     Defileul Muresului                                 601.3
35     Doisprezece Apostoli                                100
36     Dornogied                                           2000
37     Dosul Cernei                                        850
38     Ducin                                               150
39     Durau                                               1100
40     Gradistea Muncelului-Cioclovina                    1073.7
41     Hasmasu Mare-Piatra Singuratica-Hasmasu Negru       250
42    lardasita                                           253.3
43    launa Craiovei                                       1350
44    leselnita                                           764.8
45     Ineu-Lala                                           981.1
46     Izvoarele Doftanei                                  600
47     Izvoarele Gilortului                                750
48     Izvoarele Nerei                                     5028
49     Izvoarele Rebrei                                    500
50     Izvorul Bigar                                       150
51    Izvorul Muntelui-Neagra                              350
52     Lacauti                                             775
53     Masivul Postavarul                                  250
54     Mraconia                                           3458.9
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT            194                  NINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOD AND FORESTS



i          Undistiurbcd Forests of Importancc for tiictr Consenation Valuc
Location                                           Area (ha)
,D     Narutiu- Foarfeca                                    1200
56     Oslea                                                 100
57     Padurea Gorganu                                       70
58     Padurea Gosmanu                                       175
59     Padurea Latorita                                      187
60     Padurea Nlilea-Viforata                               534
61     Parcul National Retezat                              5183
62     Penteleu                                             1050
63     Piatra Closanilor                                    1150
64     Piatra Mare                                           450
65     Pietrosul NMare                                       850
66     Piscul Cainelui                                       205
67     Runcu-Grosi                                          261.8
68     Sipotelul Sihastrului                                 800
69     Stancariilc Zamei                                     335
70     Tarcu                                                2000
71     Valea Ciclovei                                       1004.2
72     Valea Mare                                            400
73     Valea Vinului                                        785.7
74     Zona carstica- Cheile Dambovitei- Dambovicioara-
Brusturet                                            1154.4
75     Zoruleasa -Cheile Valsanului                         228.3
Source: ICAS
ENV'IRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT              195                  NINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



APPENDIX 8: SUGGESTED SCREENING FOR WOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRIES
Component 2.4 of the FDP proposes to provide support and assistance for Small and
Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) to process and add value to forest products. There are
risks that ForsBIC could support the establishment of potentially polluting and
environmentally damaging industries. In order to prevent support to potentially polluting
activities, all projects which will support the establishment or upgrade of forest processing
industries are first screened to determine the likelihood of negative environmental and
social effects.
The following screening criteria will be used:
1. Type of activity
2. Nature of support from the project.
3. Location of the Project in relation to Protected Areas, ground and surface
waters, local population, raw materials, transport links etc.
4. Use or generation of potentially polluting substances (e.g. chemicals, solvents,
oils, gas, liquid and gaseous effluents, hazardous wastes including type and
volume generated or stored);
5. Proposed management techniques (e.g. for containment, storage, pollution
control, waste management, health and safety);
6. Anticipated generation of traffic;
7. Permits and approvals required.
Further screening, Assessment, and mitigation will be in the framework of the national and
local regulatory framework for environmental assessment.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT      196                MlNITRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORES5S



APPENDIX 9: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR DIAGNOSTIC STUDY OF CORRUPTION IN THE
FORESTRY SECTOR
Background
The Forest Sector
Romania's forests cover 27 percent of the country and include some of the last and largest
tracts of natural and undisturbed old growth forests still remaining in Europe. They
constitute an extremely valuable natural resource in terms of their capacity for sustainable
production of forest products, provision of environmental services, and the conservation of
biodiversity.
Although more than half of Romania's forests are managed for protection functions (rather
than for timber production), in the year 2000 the export value of forest products was
estimated at around US $1 billion, equivalent to 10 percent of all exports. The value of
environmental services associated with forests are, however, considerably larger. Recent
studies have indicated that the annual value of all products and services provided by
Romania's forests, including environmental services but excluding value-added from forest
industries, is on the order of US$3.1 billion.
Over the last fifty years, most of Romania's forests have been owned by the State and
managed by the State-owned National Forest Administration (NFA), which has a long and
distinguished history of ecologically sound management of natural forests and the wildlife
populations they support. The NFA, which has a staff of 30,000, is responsible for managing
State forest land.
Separate institutions under the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests (MAFF) -
principally the Department of Forests (DoF) with its Directorates of Silvic Regime Inspection
(i.e. the Forest Inspectorates) and of Strategy, Policy and Legislation - are responsible for
regulatory, monitoring, enforcement, and supervisory functions on all forest lands.
There is mounting pressure to return more than one-third of all forest lands to their pre-1948
owners through the on-going process of restitution. Most of the forests scheduled for
restitution are production forests, which currently generate most of the revenues needed by
NFA to undertake public functions associated with management of protection forest (53
percent of Romania's forest estate). The restitution of forest lands will ultimately lead to
greater democratization, empowerment, and improved distribution of benefits from forest
management to their owners and to associated rural communities. Having said this, the role
of the State will need to change rapidly to reduce the potentially devastating impacts of
restitution on forests, the environment, and on the sector's long-term productive capacity.
The NFA currently manages around 85 percent of Romania's forests. This area will be
reduced dramatically after restitution. The restitution of approximately 3 million hectares of
forest land is being sought by a range of former owners. Of these, claims representing more
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES N1ANAGEMENT   197              MINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



than 1.4 million hectares have been validated by county commissions for restitution, and
755,000 hectares had alreadv been returned to their original owners by the end of June 2001.
It is likely that about two million hectares will be returned to the various categories of
private owners by 2003.
Since most of the forests which will be returned to former owners is production forest,
restitution will significantlv increase the proportion of non-revenue generating activities
undertaken by the NFA (from the management of protection forests, which are areas rich in
forest biodiversity) as a share of its total expenditure. Restitution will have the added
impact of breaking up contiguous blocks of forest administered by NFA, thereby making
management more difficult and costly. Consequently, NFA is expected to encounter
difficulties in financing its public functions -- primarily maintaining and managing the
State's protection forests -- using its own decreasing revenue generating activities.
The forest sector is a significant provider of rural employment and income. In the year 2000,
approximately 30,000 people were employed in forest management; 67,000 in logging and
primary processing; 21,000 in pulp and paper industries, and over 100,000 in furniture
manufacturing. Forest-based tourism and the collection and sale of non-timber forest
products also provides employment for large numbers of the Romanian rural population.
There are significant opportunities to increase the scale, competitiveness and profitability of
Romanian wood industries, and employment supported by the sector, while maintaining
public and private forests under sustainable management and while protecting Romania's
rich forest biodiversity.
Corruption and illegal harvesting
There is relatively little information known about the extent of corruption in the forest
sector. Earlier estimates suggested that between 5 and 20 percent of the timber on the
market in Romania had been illegally harvested, but the basis for this estimate was largely
anecdotal.57 The failure, however, to capture revenues as a result of corruption and illegal
harvesting increases the overall cost of management, and supports rates of forest harvesting
which are not consistent with generally accepted norms of sustainable forest management.
Corruption in the forest sector - the misuse of public power for private profit - should be
distinguished from activities in the forest sector which are illegal (such as timber theft or
illegal harvesting). Corruption can exist without illegality, and illegality can exist without
corruption. Illegal activities can of course be facilitated by corruption, but it is important to
point out that they can also take place irrespective of the prevalence of corruption.
The perception of whether or not corruption is an issue in the forest sector is heavily
influenced by overall perceptions of the prevalence of corruption in Romania. A diagnostic
study of corruption in Romania was carried out in 2000 and reported on the following year
(57)  See for example,. World Bank (1999). There was no empirical basis for this estimate, and subsequent
reviews have discounted it.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT      198                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



(World Bank, Diagnostic Surveys of Comiption in Romantia, March 2001). The study
concluded that corruption is perceived by the public to be widespread. About two-thirds of
the Romanian public believes that "all" or "most" officials are corrupt. Public officials
reported lower perceived levels of corruption, although still high: 44 percent reported that
all or most officials are engaged in corruption. While the perception of widespread
corruption is clear, it is also clear that many people believe that corruption has achieved a
state of nornalcy. Half of households reported that bribery is part of everyday life, while
only one in eleven reported bribes to be completely unnecessary. Enterprise managers and
public officials were less negative with four tenths and a third, respectively, reporting
corruption to be a part of everyday life.
Although it is important to understand perceptions about the pattern of corruption, it is
equally important to understand how corruption directly impacts people, the business
community, and the public officials themselves. Thirty-eight percent of public officials
reported that they had been offered a gift or money during the previous year. Twenty-eight
percent and 42 percent of enterprises and households, respectively, reported that they either
were made to feel that a bribe was necessary or directly offered bribes or atentie
("attention") to various public officials during the previous 12 months.
The perception of corruption in the forestry sector is no doubt fueled by the position of the
NFA, which has long had control over extensive and valuable forest assets, and has
remained relatively well-financed from its profits. Having said this, virtually no diagnostic
work has been carried out which has adequately characterized problems in the sector.
Administrative corruption and state capture
Corruption poses a significant constraint on firms in Romania, with almost two out of three
firms reporting that corruption is an obstacle. Other related ills, such as bureaucracy, red
tape, clientelism, and sluggish courts also pose significant problems for businesses. Many of
the most important obstacles to business development are significantly correlated with state
capture - corruption associated with the formation of laws, rules, and decrees. It is
important to distinguish state capture from administrative corruption - which refers to
corruption surrounding the implementation of laws, rules and decrees. State capture is
perhaps the more prevalent concern in the forestry sector in Romania, though
administrative corruption likely plays a role as well.
A number of factors have posed important opportunities for the development of corrupt and
illegal practices in the forestry sector in Romania. Higher prices for conventional household
energy and heating have increased the incentives for the theft of fuelwood. The timber
pricing policy (especially the practice of administratively setting floor prices) and the
auction system (through which NFA sells standing timber through competitive sealed bid
tenders, and also for a limited amount of timber felled and extracted to roadside) does not
always take into account the full market value of timber or the harvesting costs borne by the
purchaser, limiting market entry in some cases and offering greater potential for collusion
where markets are poorly formed. Hedonic pricing studies (cf. Vincent et al, 1996) have
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT       199               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



shown the potential for improving the method for determining starting prices, which would
in turn provide stronger incentives for wood-based industries in Romania to improve their
efficiency and become more competitive. Private sector investment in processing is hindered
as well because NFA is not legally able to enter into long-term contracts with processors to
guarantee raw material supply.
NFA is currently taxed on its profits. Because of this, there is an institutional incentive to
increase expenditure rather than to generate profits. Under NFA's current accounting
system, it is not possible to quantify, compare, or separate the economic and fiscal costs and
benefits associated with NFA s public good functions from its and commercial activities in
the management of State forest resources.
Faced with the loss of large areas of production forests through restitution, NFA is
considering further diversification of its economic activities to include more non-core forest
management activities which might be more effectively undertaken by the private sector. In
the absence of a comprehensive and transparent accounting system, which separates public
good functions from commercial economic costs and benefits, it is impossible to assess
whether cross-subsidies from NFA's existing and new diversified activities will be adequate
for addressing financial shortfalls. The lack of clarity in accounting practice allows for
allegations of inefficiency, and these inefficiencies can mask opportunities for corruption in
public expenditure management.
One outcome of the various inefficiencies in timber markets, and the pricing and marketing
regime, is low productivity and low quality among private wood processing industries. The
industry has never made the investment needed in new technologies to improve extraction
and processing, and so remains highly inefficient, and unable to deliver product for higher
value markets.
In any event, success in addressing administrative failures and state capture in Romania will
require a broad-based program that brings transparency and accountability to political life
and to public administration more generally, rather than to the forestry sector in isolation.
Government has placed a high priority on tackling the problem of corruption by preparing
and adopting its 'National Program for Prevention of Corruption' which seeks to do this.
Objectives
This study proposes to develop a clearer perspective on the problem of corruption and
governance in Romania by carrying out diagnostic work on the patterns, prevalence, and
perceptions of corruption and illegal activities in the forest sector. Consistent with the
priorities identified in the National Program for Prevention of Corruption, the objective is to
identify legal, institutional and policy changes which can contribute to limiting problems of
corruption and illegal activity in the sector. The diagnostic study is expected to provide
recommendations which can be implemented with support from the Forest Development
Project.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT   200              MIINSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



This analysis will provide the basis for specific and detailed terms of reference for
prevention, detection and suppression measures, which the national, provincial and district
governments and other stakeholders could realistically implement to curb illegal logging in
Romania. It will also generate awareness-raising materials of two types:  specific
information for important target audiences such as local government officials and legislators
and more general materials that could be disseminated by way of public awareness
programs.
Action on corruption in the forestry sector will have to be forward looking. The restitution
of much of the revenue-producing forest lands to private owners will likely have important
impacts on the behavior of both market players and the NFA. Among other things, auction
behavior will likely change, with the proliferation of actors, including the proliferation of
sellers of logging rights. Future action will have to be responsive to various behavioral
changes likely to result from this fundamental change in ownership rights.
Scope of Work
The diagnostic study is expected to be comprised of 6 sets of tasks and activities, and is
focused on legal and enforcement effectiveness, as well as on perceptions, and actual
experiences with corruption in the sector.
* A Legal, institutional and enforcement effectiveness review will be carried out to
review the legal framework with respect to forestry and its relevance in controlling
problems of corruption and illegal harvesting. Enforcement efforts will be examined, in
particular, records of fines and arrests for illegal harvesting and corruption.
* International Trade statistics will be reviewed to capture the extent to which Romania's
export statistics for timber and timber products match the statistics of importing
countries. Disparities in these data tend to highlight the nature of cross-border trade in
forest products.
* A Firm and Enterprise Survey will be carried out of timber harvesting, extraction, and
processing industries to explore the extent to which corrupt practices characterize the
sector. Standard diagnostic surveys and interview techniques will be used in developing
this task. A robust data set will be generated which will provide a view of perspectives
and experiences with sectoral governance issues.
* A Public official survey will be carried out in order to determine the perspectives of
civil servants on the problem of corruption and state capture.
* A Household Survey will examine common perceptions of corrupt practices at the local
and community level, including perspectives on the illegal harvesting of firewood, and
the use of illegally harvested timber by local industries, as well as on the role of the NFA
in forest management.
* A Hedonic pricing study will be carried out based on actual auction market prices and
floor prices to examine evidence of collusion between buyers and between buyers and
sellers of timber. This will be based on the methodology established by Vincent et al
(1996) and will update the findings from this earlier work.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT    201               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



The diagnostic is expected to produce various outputs.  These outputs will be peer
reviewed, and will include
A Concise overview of the political, governance and legaVregulatory setting for forest
law enforcement. This would cover the general legal and political economy of Romania; the
agencies that have a mandate for law enforcement generally and for forest law enforcement
in particular; the legal basis, regulations and procedures for those agencies; opportunities
and constraints for community participation in forest management; the heritage of
corruption, cronyism and nepotism, etc. and how this has specifically shaped the illegal
logging problem; and trends in all of the above under the move to a more decentralized
governmental structure. What are the institutional incentives which reinforce corrupt
practices?
An Evaluation of Enforcement Effectiveness. What are Government and the private sector
doing (at all levels) by way of prevention, detection, suppression? Where are the operational
responsibilities for enforcement and what are the constraints on effective forest law
enforcement? What budgets and accountabilities are there? What is the record of arrests,
convictions and penalties? Are there perverse incentives, conflicting programs, or other
constraints that may be counteracting enforcement efforts?  What are forest adjacent
communities doing, and what is their potential to prevent illegal activity?
An assessment of the perceptions of corruption, based on survey findings, basically to
establish the patterns of corruption as perceived by households, enterprises and public
officials. Even though perceptions of the level of corruption may be different from the
reality, and understanding of these perceptions is extremely important, since perceptions
form the basis for decision making.
Experiences with corruption, and public sector performance. While an understanding of
perceptions of corruption is important, it is equally important to understand how corruption
directly affects people, the business community, and public officials.
Consequences of corruption. What is the impact of corruption on service delivery, on the
cost effectiveness of the timber industry, and on competitiveness in the sector? Which firms
are affected most by corrupt practices?
Causes of corruption. A climate of excessive or poorly implemented regulation opens the
door for corruption among public officials called to implement and verify regulations. The
links between regulation and state capture and administrative corruption will be explored to
test the hypothesis that firms which spend more time dealing with bureaucracy are more
likely to engage in state capture.
Reducing corruption: formulation of recommendations. The diagnostic will examine the
prospects for reducing problems of sectoral corruption in the face of vested interests, and
will consider likely impacts of restitution on institutional and personal behaviors, both
corrupt and non-corrupt. Recommendations will be prepared for consideration by the wide
ENVIRONM1ENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    202               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. FOOD AND FORESTS



varietv of actors and audiences: central government, regional and local government, the
NGO community and the industry. The recommendations will be as specific and
operational as possible and will be outcome-oriented. Because of the recognized importance
of buy-in by forest communities, the recommendations will include incentives for
implementation by local officials and by communities. They will also include measures to
mitigate projected short-term impacts on local communities that may be associated with
reducing illegal activity in the forests. Proposals will focus particularly on the scope for
involving local forest owner associations in monitoring, and for building the capacity of
NGOs and other civil society organizations in this area.
Design and Implementation of a Communications Strategy. Since one objective of the
study is to identify ways of changing behaviors with respect to corrupt practice, it will be
important to consider how findings and recommendations can best be disseminated during
and after the technical work, in ways that improve the probability of acceptance and
implementation.  Communications specialists will be consulted, and reports will be
prepared in an accessible manner.
Financing Mechanisms
Independent sources of financing for this study are expected to be mobilized by the World
Bank and other partners in order to maintain independence of its findings from the FDP
project implementation process.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT   203              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FOREST5



APPENDIX 10: RESULTS FROM PRELIMINARY SCREENING OF ROADS REHABILITATION SUB-
PROJECTS FOR THEIR ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NMANAGEMENT       204                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND FORESTS



Results from Preliminary Screening of Roads Rehabilitation Sub-projects for their Environmental and Social Impacts
Environmental Screening                                        Social Screening
Elements and Sub-elements                                  Elements and Sub-elements
Occu-
pa-
tional
Slope Stability and                                Health Operation and            Potential relocation
Erosion(Land       Nature      Aquatic            and  Maintenance              and other negative  Other impacts on
Road                                        Severance)      Conservation  Resources Air quality Safety  of Forest  Recreation    effects     local communities  Total EA
Number County         Location          1   2   3    4  5    6   7   8   9    10    11  12   13     14    15    16  17  18  19  20   21  22  23  24   25  26  scores likely?
1    ALBA          Paraul Calului                                                                                                                                  Yes
2    ALBA          Rosloara                                                                                                                                        Yes
3    ALBA          Valea Ruzii      +  NA    +   +   +  NA   +   +   NA    x     +   +    +     +     0.84  x   NA  NA   +   +    x   +  NA   +    +   +     2x    No
4    ALBA          Valea Galatiului  +  NA   +  Na +    NA+      +   NA    x     +  _     +      +    0,72  +   +   NA   +   +    x   +  NA   +    +   +     1x    No
5    ARAD          Latesti          +  NA    +  Na +    NA   +   +   NA    x     +   +    +     NA    1.08  +   +   NA   +  NA    +   +  NA   +    +   +     lx    No
6    ARAD          Daboca                .                                                                                                                         Yes
7    ARAD          Valaie           +  NA    +   +   +  NA   +   +   NA    x     +   +    +     NA    0.62  x   NA  NA   +  NA    +   +NA     +    +   +     2x    No
8    ARAD          Valea Cioltului  _                                                                                                                              Yes
9    ARAD          Valea luga       +  NA    +  Na +    NA   +   +   NA    x     +   +    +     NA    1.19  +   +   NA   +   +    x   +  NA   +    +   +     lx    No
10   ARGES         Bunca            _                                                                                                                              Yes
11   ARGES         Fiasu Olanele    _   _        __._                                                                                                              Yes
12   ARGES         Brateasca         +  NA   +   Nal_    NA   +   +  NA     x    +   +     +    NA    1.36   +  NA  NA+       +   +   +   NA   +   +   +     lx     No
13   ARGES         Zigoneni          +  NA   +   Na +    NA   +   +  NA     x    +   +     +    NA    1.52   x  NA  NA    +NA    |+ NA         +   +   +     2x     No
14   ARGES         Dobroneagu        +  NA   +   _   +   +    +   +  NA     x    +   +     +     +    5.87   +   +  NA    +  NA   +   +NA      +   +   +     1x     No
15   ARGES         Cumpenita         +       +   Na +    NA   +   +  NA     x    +   +     +     +    11.62  x   +  NA    +  NA   +   +NA      +   +   +    1- 2x   No
16   ARGES         ValeaSatului      +       +   Na +    NA   +   +  NA     x    +   +           - +  4.27   x  NA  NA   +   NA   +    +NA     +   +    +   1- 2x   No
17   BACAU         Duraceasa         +  NA   +   Na +    NA   +   +  NA     x    +_        +     +    6.64   +  _   NA    x  NA   +   +   NA   +   +   +     2x     No
18   BACAU         Rotaru-Slanic     +   +   +   Na x    +    +   +  NA     x    +   +     +     +    2.44   +  NA  NA   +   NA   +   +   NA   +   +   +     2x     No
19   BACAU         Limbar
(prelungire)                                                          ____Yes
20    BACAU        Ghedeon           +NA     +    +      NA      _    NA                   +     +    4.56   +NANA          _     +    +NA     +   +    +     0     No
21    BACAU        Covata            +  NA  _+       x   NA   _   +   NA    +    _    + _        +    6.36   +  NA   NA     x  +  +    +NA     +   +    +    lx     No
22    BACAU        Casoasa Frasin    +   +   +       _ +  NA  +   _   NA    +    +   + _         +    2.59   + NANAx          +       _ NA     + A      +     0     No
23    BACAU        Larga             +       +    +  +   NA   +   +   NA    +    +   +     +     +    3.97   +  NA   NA+      +   +    +  NA   +   +    +     1-    No
25    BIHOR        Sucobeasa                                                                                                                                        Yes
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES IMANAGEMENT                                             205                                                 NIINIST 0(F AGRI( uL.URE. Foo[) ANI)D FRSIS



Results from Preliminary Screening of Roads Rehabilitation Sub-projects for their Environmental and Social Impacts
Environmental Screening                                     Social Screening
Elements and Sub-elements                                Elements and Sub-elements
Occu-
pa-
tional
Slope Stability and                              Health Operation and          Potential relocation
Erosion(Land       Nature     Aquatic          and   Maintenance             and other negative  Other impacts on
Road                                      Severance)     Conservation Resources Air quality Safety  of Forest  Recreation  effects     local co munities  Total EA
Number County         Location        1   2   3    4  5   6    7  8    9    10  11   12   13    14    15   16  17  18  19 20   21  22 23   24  25   26  scores likely?
=- -  =       =n  =       =-_     _=           =          =               =k =~-  ~  _ =       _  _   _   -= -  _A          - _
27   BRASOV        Pojorta         +       x   Na +    NA   +   x  NA    +   _    +    +     +    1.88  x   NA NA    x  NA   +   +  NA   +   +   +   1- 4x   Yes
28   BRASOV        Cremenea        +  NA   x   Na  +   NA   +   x  NA    +    +   +    +     +    7.65  x   NA NA    x  NA   +   +  NA   +   +   +    4x     Yes
Cremenuta
29   BRASOV       Valea Mare       +   +   +   Na  +   NA   +  x    +    x    +   +    +     +    4.75  +   NA NA    +   +   +   +   x   +   +   +    2x
Cnzbav             II          III                            II              III                                   IINo
30   BUZAU         Basca Mare etl -II      +    +  +   NA   +  +    +    x    +   +    +     +   21.69  +   +   NA   x   +   +   +   x   +   +   +   2- 2x   Yes
31   BUZAU         Basca Mica et It  X     +    +  x   NA   +  +    +    x    +   +    +     +    44.3  +   +   NA   x   .   +   .   x   +   +   +   1- 5x   Yes
32   CARAS         Axial Barzava   +   x   +   Na  +   NA   +  +    +    x    +   +    +     +    4.88  +   +   NA   +   +   +   +   +   +   +   +    2x
SEVERIN                                                                                                                                                 No
37  CLUJ     ~~~DudaieYe
38  CLUJ     ~~~CapritaYe
39   COVASNA       Damaul Mic      X       X  +  +  +  NA   + +   +      +    +   +    +     +    2 32   x NA NA+       NA   +   +INAI +     +   +   I- 5x   Yes
40   DA`MBVIA      Proboiu         +NA     +   Nax     NA   +   +  NA    x    +   +    +     x    2.34   xNANA+         NA   +   +NA     .   .   .     4x    Yes
41   DAMBOVITA     Buturoaia       +NA     +   Na+     N+           +    x    +   +    +     +    2_33   x NA NA    x    +   .   +   .   .   .   +     3x    No
42   DAMBOVITA     RudaSeaca       +NA     +   Na  +   NA   +   +   +    x    +   +    +     x    2.71   x  +   NA   x   +   +   +   +   +   +   +     4x    Yes
43   DAMBOVITA     Negoaia Valea   + NA    +    +   x  NA   +   +   +    +    +   +    +     x    1.91   x NA NA+        +   +   + NA    +   +   +     3x
Mare                                                                                                                                       No
SO      __ CARA9  -a- I             __          _ _     _______                           _______ __  _       __ __                                     _
EIR4O   DAMBOVITA RESOUoRC M  AN +ANEMNTN6 +                  NA            x                                                 M II x  23   x  N_ NA  +  _   NA  +  _  A  4x |NYes
ENVIRONMIENTAL RESOURCrS MANAGEMIENT                                         206                                               I IN ISTR I Of AG RICUILTURE, FOODI ANI I FIReISI



Results from Preliminary Screening of Roads Rehabilitation Sub-projects for their Environmental and Social Impacts
Environmental Screening                                       Social Screening
Elements and Sub-elements                                 Elements and Sub-elements
Occu-
pa-
tional
Slope Stability and                               Health Operation and           Potential relocation
Erosion(Land       Nature     Aquatic            and   Maintenance             and other negative  Other impacts on
Road                                       Severance)      Conservation  Resources Air quality Safety  of Forest  Recreation   effects    local communities  Total EA
Number County         Location         1   2    3   4  5    6   7   8   9    10   11   12   13    14    15    16  17  18  19 20   21   22 23   24  25   26  scores likely?
46   GORJ          Oltet            +   -    +   +NA     +   +   +   +     x    +   +    +     +    13.81  +   +   NA   +   +   +   +   +    +   +   +   1- x    No
47   GORJ          Gilort           +        +   + NA    +   +   +   +     x    +   +    +     x    18.06  +   +   NA   +   +   +   +   +    +   +   +   1- 2x   Nb
14~~~~~~~~~~ iul                                                             t - 1 r  -   s _   _   1                                              -
49    HUNEDOARA Tomnatec                                                                                                                                         Yes
50   HUNEDOARA Dobra                +       _+  _NA      +   +   +   +     x    +   +    +     +     25.3  +   +   NA   +   +   +   +   +    +   +   +   1- lx   No
52   MARAMURES Waser                +   x    +   + NA    +   +   +   +     x    +   +    +      +   99.96  _   +   NA   +   +   +    +  +    +   +   +     2x    No
53   MARAMURES Bercului             +   x    +   +NA     +   +   +   +     +    +   +    +     +    51.42  +   +   NA   +   +   +   +   +    +   +   +     1x    No
54   MARAMURES Puturoasa            +        +   + NA    +   +   +  NA     +    +   +    +     x    12.59  +   +   NA   +  NA   +   +NA      +   +   +     1 x   No
55   MARAMURES Socolau prelung et +     x    +   + NA    +   +   +  NA     +    +   +    +     +    24.46  +   +   NA   +   +   +   +   +    +   +   +     1 x   No
65    NEAMT        Paraul Gardului
______ _____ prelung                                                                                                                                    Yes
66    NEAMT        Cuejdel Obarsie                                                                                                                               Yes
--~                          =   =       =               _          _        -__._                      _   _   _   _ 
68   MRAHOVA       Vulpea +ae       +        +   +NA     +   +   +   NA    x    +   +    +      x    1.09NA             +      +                           4x    Yes
____ MEI ICD4ff                                                  -.- el  _4 _  __ _ __ __         __        _                    _ 
62__          o N                                        ___                                         _           -_   --                                    - _  _  _  _  s
ENVROtENTA   ESO-RCES NIANAGEEN0 p                                                                                                    RYO_A        -I I URE FC_ AN F_ 
ENVIRONMtENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMfENT                                          207                                                MINISI RY ()FAGRICUI I URE, FCX1nANI) oIORS1S



Results from Preliminary Screening of Roads Rehabilitation Sub-projects for their Environmental and Social Impacts
Environmental Screening                                            Social Screening
Elements and Sub-elements                                       Elements and Sub-elements
Occu-
pa-
tional
Slope Stability and                                    Health Operation and              Potential relocation
Erosion(Land         Nature       Aquatic             and   Maintenance                and other negative  Other impacts on
Road                                            Severance)       Conservation  Resources Air quality Safety  of Forest   Recreation        effects      local commurities   Total EA
Number County           Location           1   2    3    4   5    6    7   8    9    10    11   12   13     14     15    16  17   18  19   20  21   22  23   24   25  26   scores likely?
70    PRAHOVA        Paltinoasa         X   +    +    +  NA    +    -   +    +     +    +    +    +      x     2.64   x   +_  NA    +   +    x    +   +   +    +    +    I- 3x   Ye s
71    PRAHOVA        Limbasel           +   +    +    +  NA    +   +    +   +     x     +    +    +      +     3.14   +   _   NA    +   +    x    +   +   +    +    +     2x     No
72    SIBIU          lzvorul Florii     +   -    +   Na NA     +   +    +   NA    NA    +    +    +      +     0.81   +   +   NA    +   +    x   +   NA   +      + _    1- lx    No
73    SIBIU          Mancu Sulita       +   x    +   Na NA     +   +    +   +     NA    +    +    +      +     3.56   +   +   NA    +   x    +    +   +   +    +    +     2x     No
Dragan             _
74    SIBIU          Sadurel Porcu      +    -   +    +   +   NA        + I +     +     +    +    +      +    19.61   +   x   NA    x   +    +    +  NA    +   +    +   1- 2x    No
75    SUCEAVA        Valea Colibei                                                                                                                                               Yes
76    SUCEAVA        Dabul                                                                                                                                                       Yes
77    SUCEAVA        Mlaca (drum+pod)+      +    +   Na   _   NA   +    +   NA    +     +    +    +      +     2.06   +  NA   NA   +    +    x    +   +   +    +    +     lx     No
78    SUCEAVA        Ehriste            +   +    +   Na +     NA   +    +   NA    +     +    +    +      +     1.55   +  NA   NA    x   +    x    x   x    +   +    +     4x     Yes
79    TIMIS          Hamos              +   +    +   Na +     NA   +    +   NA    +     +    +    +     NA     2.65   +  NA   NA   +   NA    +    x   x    +   +    +     2x     No
80    TIMIS          Carliontu          +   +    +    +   x   NA   +    +   NA    +     +    +    +     NA     6.98   +  NA   NA    +   +    +    +   +    x   x    +     3x     No
81    TIMIS          Drinova            +   +    +   Na   x   NA   +    +   NA     +    +    +    +     NA     5.64   +  NA   NA    x  NA    +    +   +    +   +    +     2x     No
83     ALCEA         Mihaescu           _   - _           _   _    - _      _              =             e   __           _    _   _ _       _       _    _    _ -               Yes
86    V              Cema               +   +    +   Na     x  NA  +    +   NA     x    +    +    +     NA     2.36   +NANA         x   +    +    +NA      +   +    +     3x     No
87     RANCEA        Valea Neagra       x        +    +   +   NA    +   +   NA     +    +    +    +      x     16.7   +  NA   NA     x  .    +    +   +    +   +    +    1- 3x   Yes
88    VRANCEA        Motnau             x        +    +   x   NA   +    +   NA     +    +    _    +      x     6.34   +   +   NA    +   .    .    .   +    +   +    +    I- lx   No
89    IASI           Rapa Fetii                                                I                                             I    I                                              Yes
90    HARGHITA       Pod Pintec         +   +    +   Na NA    NA    +   +   NA    NA    +    +           +     10.5   +   NA  NA   x    +    +    x   +    +   +    +     2x      No
91    HARGHITA       Barasau            +   +    +   Na +      x    +   +   NA    X          +           +     9.2    + NA    NA    x   +    + I        +    +      +     3x     No
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMIENT                                                    208                                                    NJINIS1R ()F AC.RICUI.TURF. F:CD) AND IFORISIS



Notes about classification of marks
+   Environmental issues VERY WELL solved by the proposed sub-project
X    Environmental issues SOLVED BUT NOT VERY WELL by the proposed sub-project
-   Environmental issues NOT solved by the proposed sub-project
NA   No negative environmental impacts associated with this element, and so no environmental issues have to be solved.
Proposed roads rehabilitation sub-projects for which screening information could not be obtained
Proposed new roads construction sub-projects (not screened for potential environmental impacts)
Proposed new roads construction and roads rehabilitation sub-projects rejected on environmental grounds, because of their proximity to protected areas.
Yes Indicates that, subject to rescreening during project implementation, road sub-project exceeds screening threshold and will likely require preparation of an
Environmental Assessment.
Guide to Screening Sub-elements
1.   Geologically difficult condifions
2.   Slope more than 600
3.   Plans seek to prevent future erosion and downstream flooding
4.   Plan provides for access to degraded areas for rehabilitation
5.   Plan provides for prevention of further erosion of stream banks
6.   Separation-(fencing")-Effects
7.   Road will provide no new access to protected areas or to special preserves
8.   Road plans provide for the conservation of major undeveloped natural areas, the adaptation of the road to the landscape, and the
conservation of characteristic areas or objects in the natural environment
9.   Road provides access to watershed protection works
10.  Impact on water quality
11.  Reduction of air quality emissions by optimizing speed and by reducing the number of startVstop cycles
12.  Noise levels in various sensitive areas and representative locations
13.  Safety driving and reducing the risks of accidents
14.  Economic access to fallen trees for sanitary purposes and prevention of diseases
15.  Expected total traffic and lorries
16.  Open space and visual quality
17.  Area of zoological and hunting interest
18.  Area with historic sites
19.  Buildings will be affected by road rehabilitation or construction.
20.  Homes will be affected by road rehabilitation or construction.
21.  Business will be affected by road rehabilitation or construction.
22.  Altering to riparian zones
23.  Local community will be affected
24.  Local community has been consulted
25.  Approval of road proposals by local community
26.  Local community will continue to have access to forest
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENF                                          209                                              NtINISIRN F/ O,\AGRI(UIIURF, FOOD ANI) FIorISIS



APPENDIX 17: BIBLIOGRAPHY
Dalal-Clayton, B., and Sadler, B. 1998. Strategic Environmental Assessment: A Rapidlv
Evolving Approach, in Donnelly et al. (1998). P.3142.
Donnelly, A., Dalal-Clayton, B., and Hughes, R. 1998. A Directonr of Impact Assessment
Guidelines. International Institute for Environrnent and Development, London.
Adams, P.W. 1983. Maintaining Woodland Roads. Extension Circular 1139, Oregon State
University, Corvallis.
ASFOR (Association of Romanian Foresters). 2000. Bulletin JnformEativ Nr. 3.
Asmarandei, M. and Cazan, I., 1996. Building and Maintenance of Forest Roads -
Technologies and Equipment, in, FAO (1998), p. 291-300.
Boghean, P. and Pavel, A. 1996. Interconnection of Forest Roads Network, Harvesting and
Wood Transport, in FAO (1998), p. 352-357.
British Columbia Forest Service. 1995. Forest Road Engineering Guidebook. BC Forest Service
and BC Environment, Victoria, Canada.
Comisia Nationala Pentru Statistica. 1999. Statistical Yearbook 1999. CNPS, Bucarest.
FAO. 1993. Assessing Forestry Project Impacts: Issues and Strategies. Forestry Paper 114. FAO,
Rome.
FAO. 1996a. Forest Codes of Practice: Contributinig to Environmentally Sound Forest Operations.
Forestry Paper 133. FAO, Rome.
FAO. 1996b. FAO Model Code of Forest Harvesting Practice. FAO, Rome.
FAO. 1998. Proceedings of thie Seminar on Environmentally Sound Forest Roads anld Wood
Transport, Sinaia, Romania, 17-22 June 1996. FAO, Rome.
FAO. 1999. Environnienitally Sound Road Constructioni in Mountainous Terrain. Forest
Harvesting Case Study 10. FAO, Rome.
Forest Stewardship Council. 2001. Press Release of FSC Secretariat, May 19, 2001.
Fortech, Dames & Moore (UK) and Project Management (Ireland). 2001. Economic Analysis
of the Forestnr Development Project, report prepared by for the Forest Development
Project, October.
Fortech. 2001. Harvesting and Transport, report prepared for the Forest Development Project.
Spring.
Fortech. 2001. Initial Report on Environmental Aspects of the Forest Road Component, report
prepared for the Forest Development Project. Spring.
Garland, J.J. 1983. Designing Woodland Roads. Extension Circular 1137, Oregon State
University, Corvallis.
Romania, Government of. 1996. National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan.
ICAS (Institutul De Cercetari Si Amenajarie Silvice). 1999. Studiu Inventariere A Starii
Actuale A Paduilor Private, Privind Compozitia, Varsta, Starea Fitosanitara Si
Posibilitatile De Recoltare De Masa Lemnoasa.
Metromedia Transilvania. 2002. An Assessment of Social Issues associated with the Forestnj
Sector in Romania. Report prepared for World Bank and the Forest Development
Project. July.
Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environrment Protection. 1996. Environment Protection
Strategy. MWFEP, Bucarest.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT     210



NFA. 1999. Normatiz' Departamtienital PD 67/80: Privinidi Projcctarea Dnruullril Foresticre Pentnr
CirculaiUa Autovelziculelor. National Forest Administration, Bucharest.
Oregon State University Extension Service. 1983. Thle Woodlannd Workbook. Oregon State
University, Corvallis.
Preda, M.   2001.  Social Report (draft), prepared for the Forest Development Project.
University of Bucarest, June.
Sedlak, O.K. 1996. Forest Road Construction Policies in Austria in, FAO (1998), p. 240-251.
Spinelli, R. and E. Marchi. 1996. A Literature Review of the Environmental Impacts of Forest
Road Construction, in, FAO (1998), p. 261-275.
TRL. 1997. Principles of Low Cost Road Engieerinig ini Mountitainiious Regions. Overseas Road
Note 16. Transport Research Laboratory, Crowthorne, UK.
UN   ESCAP (Economic and Social Commission for Asia and          the Pacific).  1985.
Etnvironmental Imlpact Assessment. Guidelinies for Planntter antd Decisioni Makers. ESCAP,
Bangkok.
Vincent, J., Dragoi, M., Marocico, N., Pacurari, D., Tarhoaca, C., and Zinnes, C. 1996. Final
report: Transactionis annalysis of sthmpage auctionts inz Suceava, Roan naia. Report prepared
by the Harvard Institute for International Development. July.
World Bank. 1993. Romania Forestny Sector Review. FAO/ World Bank Cooperative Program.
January.
World Bank. 1999. Romania Forest Sector Note: Status, Values and Need for Reformy. ECSSD
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Working Paper No. 18.
October
World Bank. 1999a. Project Concept Document.    Romania Forest Development Project.
December.
World Bank. 2001. Project Appraisal Document (draft), Romania Forest Development
Project. October.
World Bank. 2000. Biodiversihy Toolkit. World Bank, Washington DC.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES NIANAGEMENT      211



