Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4683 RO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Forest Development Project) 
 
between 
 
ROMANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 31, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4683 RO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 2003, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).  
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project. 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“DOF” means the Department of Forests within MAFF (as defined 
hereinafter); 
 
(b) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, providing for the environmental 
requirements for carrying out of the Project and proposed mitigation measures, and 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report”, or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(d) 
“ForSBIC” means the Forest Business Sector Information Center, an 
independent business development and advisory services center, to be established and 
referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the 
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP); 
 
(f) 
“MAFF” means the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests of the 
Borrower; 
 
(g) 
“NFA” means the National Forest Administration under MAAF 
established in accordance with the Borrower’s Government Decision No. 173/2001; 
 
(h) 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan prepared by the Borrower, 
and referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit under MAFF to be formally 
established pursuant to a Borrower’s Ministerial Order, or any legal successor thereto 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(j) 
“POC” means the Project Oversight Committee to be established by the 
Borrower and referred to in paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
 
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of  
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-five  
million Dollars  ($25,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
Page  5
-
3
-
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan on or promptly after the Effective Date.  
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in U.S. dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
Page  6
-
4
-
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08.  
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MAFF, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b)  
without limitation upon the provisions in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall open a Project account under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank promptly after effectiveness and shall ensure that adequate budgetary allocations 
shall be made to the Project account each calendar quarter during Project implementation 
for financing Project expenditures. 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower, through MAFF, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MAFF: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
MAFF, shall: 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, 
through MAFF, prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness and Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the procurement specialist for the PMU has been 
appointed with qualifications, experiences and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 5.02. 
The date one-hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Public Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest 
Romania 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
11239 
  401 
312 
6792 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By 
/s/  Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Andrew N. Vorkink 
Director 
South Central Europe Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
12,700,000 
 
 
80% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
3,000,000 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
100%
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of  
 
local expenditures for other items  
 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants' Services 
3,000,000 
100% of foreign expenditures and 
 
including audit 
 
80% of local expenditures 
 
services and training 
 
(4) Technical 
Services 
2,350,000 
 
 
80% 
 
(5)      Incremental Operating 
 Costs: 
 
 
 
(a)  other than for  
 Part C of the Project 
2,400,000 
 
 
80% 
 
(b)  for ForSBIC under 
250,000 
95% of expenditures incurred 
Part C of the Project 
 
prior to July 31, 2004;  
 
75%
of expenditures incurred  
 
prior to July 31, 2005;  
 
50%
of expenditures incurred  
 
prior to July 31, 2006;   
 
25%
of expenditures incurred  
 
prior to July 31, 2007 
 
(6) Unallocated 
1,300,000
TOTAL 25,000,000
Page  12
-
10
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;   
 
(c) 
the term “technical services” means the design and installation of new 
software packages, including maintenance and software upgrades; and 
 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means the following recurrent 
expenditures incurred with the respect of management and coordination of Project 
activities: (i) for the PMU: staff salaries (excluding government employees) and staff per 
diems as well as travel costs for field trips related to the implementation of the Project; 
office supplies and utilities; communications costs; operations, insurance and 
maintenance for vehicles and equipment procured for the Project; and (ii) for ForSBIC: 
staff salaries (excluding government employees), office maintenance, vehicle operation 
and maintenance, publications, promotions and auditing services. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made under Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule until the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement has been paid; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement except for withdrawals: (i) in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $200,000, may be made in respect of Category (3); and (ii) in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000, may be made in respect of Category (5), 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 
2002. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and technical services 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts 
costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts 
with consultant firms costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (d) consultants’ 
services under contracts with individual consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent 
each; (e) training; and (f) incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to maintain and improve environmentally 
sustainable management of private and state owned forests so as to increase the 
contribution from forest resources to the national and rural economies.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Establish a system to ensure sustainable management of private forest lands
1. 
Strengthen the capacity of the DOF to provide extension and advisory services to 
meet the needs of private forest owners, as well as supervise, regulate and monitor 
sustainable forest management activities in private and state owned forest lands, through: 
(a) provision of services and training; and (b) provision of goods and equipment, 
including office furniture and equipment, equipment for operating in the field, vehicles 
needed for field inspections and training equipment. 
 
2.   
Support, through MAFF, the establishment and operation of national and local 
associations of private forest owners, including providing assistance for the development 
of membership profiles, recruitment plans, service-delivery profiles, business 
development plans, and capacity building for financial and procurement management 
through the provision of training and services. 
 
3. 
Support the establishment of a national forest management information and 
monitoring system, through the provision of services, including technical services, and 
training. 
 
Part B:
Mitigate the consequences of forest land 
 
restitution on management of state forest land
1. 
Support the NFA in developing and implementing a strategic plan, acceptable to 
MAFF, to strengthen and finance NFA’s role in managing state owned forests, through 
provision of services, training, and goods. 
 
2. 
Rehabilitate and expand forest road network to reduce the environmental impact 
and improve the economic viability of wood harvesting in state owned production forests, 
through the provision of works, services and goods. 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
Part C:
Support increased productivity and competitiveness of forest industry
Support the establishment and operation of ForSBIC in order to increase the 
productivity and competitiveness of the forest industry, through provision of services and 
goods. 
 
Part D:
Build public support for sustainable forest management
Prepare and implement a public awareness strategy and campaign targeting key 
stakeholders, including the general public, non-governmental organizations, NFA and 
Government decision makers,  to build public support for sustainable forest management, 
through provision of services, training, and goods. 
 
Part E:
Project management
Provision of services, training, goods and financing of operating costs to assist 
the PMU in Project management and implementation. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
August 15, 2008 
1,040,000
 
February 15, 2009 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2009 
1,040,000 
 
February 15, 2010 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2010 
1,040,000
 
February 15, 2011 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2011 
1,040,000
 
February 15, 2012 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2012 
1,040,000
 
February 15, 2013 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2013 
1,040,000 
 
February 15, 2014 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2014 
1,040,000
 
February 15, 2015 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2015 
1,040,000 
 
February 15, 2016 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2016 
1,040,000
 
February 15, 2017 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2017 
1,040,000 
 
February 15, 2018 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2018 
1,040,000
 
February 15, 2019 
1,040,000 
 
August 15, 2019 
1,040,000
 
February 15, 2020 
1,080,000
TOTAL 25,000,000
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Technical Services
Part A
:
General
Goods, works and technical services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, works and 
technical services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods, works and technical services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods and technical services under Part C.2. of this Schedule, may be procured 
from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Additional Provisions Regarding the National Competitive Bidding Procedures
When procuring works in accordance to the procedure referred to in Section I, 
C.1. of this Schedule, the following procedures shall be followed: (a) a point system of 
evaluation will not be used; (b) domestic preference will not be applied; (c) international 
bidders will not be excluded from bidding; (d) the draft bidding documents will be 
prepared and submitted to the Bank for review and no-objection before any tender is 
issued; (e) no bids will be rejected at the bid opening; (f) all bids submitted on or before 
the deadline for submission of bids will be opened and read out at public bid opening; (g)  
bidders shall demonstrate availability of obtaining securities and reasonable access to 
credit; (h) bid evaluation criteria shall be pre-disclosed to bidders; and (i) technical 
specifications shall be clearly written. 
 
Part E:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for: (i) each contract procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section; and (ii) the first contract 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in C.2 of this Section above, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Page  19
-
17
-
2. The 
following 
provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Part D of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for auditing estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated from time to time during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
Page  20
-
18
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  21
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MAFF, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about April 30, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2005 or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MAFF, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain the PMU within MAFF with such staff and resources as shall be 
required for the PMU to perform its duties in respect of the overall management and 
implementation of the Project, in accordance with the PIP and satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 
 
(b) 
establish, not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, and 
thereafter maintain a Project Oversight Committee comprising the representatives of 
DOF, MAFF, Ministry of Public Finance, and civil society representatives, which shall 
provide oversight and policy guidance for Project implementation. The Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP including an implementation plan for the 
Project and key instruments for the execution and coordination of the Project (including 
procurement and financial management procedures); and shall not amend the PIP without 
the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of  Part B of the Project,  NFA shall assist the Borrower to carry 
out the Project by providing supervision and oversight in the implementation of this Part 
of the Project, and the Borrower shall ensure that NFA receives adequate support and 
resources for this purpose. 
 
Page  22
-
20
-
4. 
For the purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower, through MAAF, shall:  
 
(a)  
ensure that the guidelines for environmental review and screening of 
forest road network expansion and rehabilitation sub-projects included in the 
Environmental Management Plan are followed by NFA; and  
 
(b)  
take all necessary actions to mitigate, if necessary, any aggregate effects 
of Part B.2 of the Project on the environment in accordance with applicable laws and the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through MAFF, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plan, including environmental mitigation, monitoring, and 
institutional measures for the execution of the Project; and shall ensure that all measures 
necessary for the carrying out such Plan shall be taken in a timely manner. 
 
6. 
Not later than March 30, 2004, the Borrower, through MAAF, shall provide for 
the establishment of ForSBIC, under applicable Romanian law, with objectives  
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
7. 
The Borrower, through MAAF, shall develop and agree with the Bank by June 
30, 2004 on an action plan, supported by studies as necessary, which shall include an 
implementation schedule, addressing the human resource and institutional needs of the 
DOF and immediately thereafter implement the plan in accordance with the schedule. 
 
8. 
The Borrower, through MAAF, shall :  
 
(a)  
undertake and complete by September 30, 2004 a study on a timber 
pricing policy, as a part of the activities to be carried out under Part B of the Project, in 
accordance with terms and reference acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
develop and agree with the Bank by November 30, 2004 on an action 
plan, including an implementing schedule, addressing the recommendations of the study 
referenced in paragraph (a) above, and immediately thereafter implement the plan in 
accordance with the schedule. 
 
Page  23
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services and incremental operating costs required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $3,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
Page  24
-
22
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  25
-
23
-
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
