Page  1
August 2, 2000
H. E. Decebal Traian Remes
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Apolodor Street 17
Bucharest, Romania
Re:  Japanese Grant for Forest Development Program
       Grant No. TF 026361                                           
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred 
twenty three thousand, six hundred and seventy Dollars ($423,670) (the Grant) to 
Romania (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myla Taylor Williams
Acting Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
ROMANIA
By /s/ Decebal Traian Remes
Minister of Finance
Date:
August 14, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Forest 
Development Program, whose main objective is to increase the contribution to the 
national economy derived from sustainable management of the key Romanian forest 
resources (the Project). The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given 
are as follows:
(a)
Institutional Support for Sustainable Management
Page  2
(i)
Assessment of the institutional roles and responsibilities for 
forest 
management, including stakeholder consultations and 
surveys, and provision of 
recommendations for institutional structure, 
legislative adjustments, 
staffing, training and equipment needs 
to be implemented during the Project, 
which is estimated to cost 
US$110,720 equivalent; and
(ii)
Preparation of a feasibility study to assist in determining 
technical and user 
requirements for a national forest database and 
monitoring system, which is 
estimated to cost US$47,370 equivalent.
(b)
Forest Sector Development
(i)
Assessment of the needs of private forest owners related to 
sustainable forest 
management, which is estimated to cost US$29,600 
equivalent; 
(ii)
Preparation of a feasibility study of the forest roads, addressing 
inter alia: 
(a) at what price per kilometer new roads may be justified; 
(b) identification 
of areas of high economic value but low conservation 
value; (c) establishment 
of environmental impact assessment and 
mitigation procedures; and (d) 
provision of technical 
specification for siting, design and construction 
practice of 
roads, using cost benefit analysis and sectoral environmental 
assessment techniques, which is estimated to cost US$46,800 equivalent; and
(iii)
Preparation of a study to determine economic viability and 
barriers to 
development of the forest sector and the Project, 
including (a) the needs of 
the private sector for information about 
the opportunities for sustainable 
forest management; (b) 
evaluation of existing finance opportunities for 
investment; 
(c) estimation of total investment required to develop an 
energetic private sector; and (d) estimation of the total economic rate of 
return to the Project, which is estimated to cost US$24,600 equivalent.
(c)
Public Awareness Strategy Design
Preparation of a public awareness strategy and an action plan to support 
sustainable forest management, including estimating of the cost of its implementation 
under the Project, which is estimated to cost US$59,450 equivalent.
(d)
Other preparation activities
(i)
Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental 
Management 
Plan to assess the environmental impacts of the Project and 
to enhance the 
beneficial impacts, detail mitigation 
measures, and the institutional needs 
for environmental monitoring and 
management, which is estimated to cost 
US$64,000 equivalent;
(ii)
Preparation of a Social Assessment Study to assess potential 
impacts of the 
Project to the various stakeholder groups and to 
guide the design of the 
Project, which is estimated to cost 
US$29,800 equivalent; and
(iii)
Designing of a financial management system within the Ministry of 
Water, 
Forests and Environmental Protection of the Recipient 
to ensure an adequate 
accounting system is set-up for the Project, 
which is estimated to cost 
US$11,330 equivalent.
2.
Implementation Generally
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time 
to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of 
the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to 
Page  3
visit the territory of Romania for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation 
on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this 
Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following item may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Item
   % of
Amount of the Grant
Expenditures
Allocated (in US Dollars)
to be Financed
Consultants’ services 
423,670
100%
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
Bank; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment, to the Bank’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after July 1, 2001, 
or such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date) , provided that, except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall 
not be extended beyond the expected date of Bank approval of financing for the 
Project. However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any 
amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by Secretary of Sate for the Ministry of Waters, Forests and 
Environmental Protection or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in 
writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person 
authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount 
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The 
Bank shall pay the amou
nts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the 
Recipient.
Page  4
4.5.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.6.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in 
the Central Bank of Romania or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the re
lated withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of Romania, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement 
with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
Page  5
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to 
the Project; or (d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s 
assistance in financing the Project.
Attachment I
Procurement
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for Activities described under sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (d)(ii) and 
(d)(iii) of paragraph 1.1 of the Annex may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Activities described under sub-paragraphs (c) and (d)(i) of 
paragraph 1.1 of the Annex may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
Page  6
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment 
is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account under the eligible item, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Page  7
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
