                                                                                       42726
                          PROPOSAL TO RESTRUCTURE THE
                           FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                  (LOAN NO.4683-RO)
                                     FOR ROMANIA

                               PROJECTDATA SHEET

Date:           February 13,2008               Task Team Leader: Peter A. Dewees
Country:        Romania                        Sector Manager: JuergenVoegele
Project Name: ForestDevelopment Project        Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Project ID:     PO67367                        Environmental category: A




FY                        2005         2006             2007            2008             2009
Annual              1,122,397       662,667       4,305,994       10,284,594        8,624,348
Cumulative          1,122,397      1,785,064      6,091,058       16,375,652       25,000,000




Doesthe restructuredProject require any exceptionsto Bank policies?          N o
Have these been approvedby Bank management?                                  n/a
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 N o




The revisedProject DevelopmentObjectives would be: (i)to improvethe management of state-
owned forests throughcapacity building and technical innovationfor environmentally-sustainable
and cost effective forest management, and (ii)to support the establishment of pilot systems for
forest managementamong underservedprivate forest owners.




                    Source                         Local          Foreign           Total
Borrower                                              2.01            0.00            2.01
IBRD/IDA                                             24.44            0.56           25.00
Others                                                4.89            0.00            4.89
Total                                                31.34            0.56           3 1.90


A.       IntroductoryStatement

 1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to restructure the Forest
Development Project to reflect considerable changes in Romania's forest policy framework, introduced
since the Project was originally approved, and to take account of the fact that funds are no longer
adequate, nor is the Project design appropriate, for achieving the Project's DevelopmentObjectives, as
originally articulated. The proposed changes would modify the Project's Development Objectives and
would adjust performance targets to focus more narrowly on what the Project can actually achieve given
the current institutionaland policy framework for sustainable forest management, and to take account of
the involvement of the private sector in providing business advisory services to the timber industry.The
changes proposedare largely an outcome of Government's decision to restitutea substantiallylarger area
o f state forests to their former private owners, and of the fact that the private sector has taken a stronger
role in informationservice provision,than hadbeenenvisagedat Appraisal.

2.       The following changes in the Forest DevelopmentProject and the associated legal documents are
proposed: (i)the Project DevelopmentObjectives would be modifiedto reduce the sector-widescope of
planned interventions; (ii)envisaged support for the establishment of the Forest Sector Business
Information Center would be dropped; (iii)support would be provided to design a Forest Geographic
InformationSystem as part o f the Forest Management Informationand Monitoring System (FMIMS); the
planned program o f forest roads rehabilitation would be scaled back; and (iv) support for private forest
owners would be shifted to focus on groups of private owners of the smallest forest holdings, who
generally lack capacity or the means for achieving economies of scale in forest management. The
project's closing date and loan amount are to remain unchanged. The proposed changes have been
requested by the Government of Romania in a letter from the Ministry o f Public Finance to the Bank,
dated October 18, 2007.

B.       Backgroundand Reasonsfor Restructuring

3.       The RomaniaForest DevelopmentProject was approved on December 19,2002. It
became effective on October 27,2003. The Project's original Development Objectives were
derived from the RomanianNational Forest Policy and Strategy, approved by Government in
2000, and were "to maintain and improve environmentally sustainable management o f state and
private forests so as to increase the contributionto the national andrural economies derivedfrom
Romanian forest resources."

4.       The Project was originally designedto assist the Ministryof Agriculture and Rural
Development (MARD) to: (a) establish systems to ensure sustainable management of private
forest lands, through buildingo f the capacity o f the Department o f Forests and its Forest
Inspectorate, supporting the development o f private forest owners associations, and establishing
a forest management informationand monitoring system; (b) mitigate the consequenceso f
restitutionon the management o f State forest lands by assisting the National Forest
Administration (NFA) to maintain, develop and finance its important role inmanaging protection
forests, and reduce the environmental impacts and improve the economic efficiency o f managing
State production forests by piloting new, environmentally sensitive, forest road construction
practices; (c) support increased productivity and competitiveness o f forest industries, through
establishing and operating a Forest Sector Business Information Center (ForsBIC); and (d) build
public support for sustainable forest management by implementing a public awareness program
targeting key stakeholders with an emphasis on new private forest owners.




                                                      1

 5.       These objectives, and the Project components designed to meet them, are no longer
 entirely relevant. The critical policy environment which has changed, and which was not
 envisaged at Appraisal, was the significant expansion o f the restitution program, designedto
 return large areas of state forests to their pre-1949 private owners. At Appraisal, it was envisaged
that no more than a third (around 2 million ha) of Romania's 6.4 million ha o f state forests would
 be formally restituted, following passage o f Law 1/2000. Passage o f a new restitution law in
2005 (Law 247/2005), greatly increased the areato be restituted, which is now expected to total
around 4.5 million ha-or nearly 70 percent o f the forest estate. The changed policy environment
hasbeen complicated by new institutionaland policy challenges posedby Romania's Accession
to the European Union.

 6.       The vastly expanded program ofrestitutionhashadprofound implications for the forestry
 sector -both with respect to pubIic ownership and for the institution charged with responsibility
for managing state forests, the National Forest Administration, as well as for new private forest
owners, many of which have only limitedexperience or capacity to undertake forest
management

7.        There are several areas where this change has had a significant impact on the objectives
and activities which were to be supported by the FDP. For example, it was envisaged that there
would be significant scope for working with private forest owners, but inpractice, the largest
owners grouped themselves into Private Forest Districts, and hired former NFA staff to runthem,
with minimal needs for inputsor investmentfrom Government. The Ministryhas proposed
instead to shift its emphasis to working with groups of private owners o f the smallest forest
holdings, who generally lack capacity for management or an understanding o f the means for
achieving economies of scale in forest management. These are the toughest stakeholders to work
with for precisely these reasons, and so muchof the focus ofthis component is beingreoriented
toward developing pilot operations, and lessons learned. Simply because o f the vast number of
new private forest owners and because of the weak institutional capacity for dealing with them,
resources were not sufficient within the Project for developing and implementinga truly national
program o f support for local forest owners associations.

8.        Substantial private sector investment inthe forest products industry has also taken place
inconjunctionwith restitutionandwith expansion into European markets. The timber products
market is increasingly sophisticated. Forest product market informationi s readily available
through various private networks, and so the envisaged support for a publicly-funded forest
industry.informationmechanism is no longer seen to be a priority.

9.        With respect to the establishment of a national sustainable forest management standard,
inpractice, forest certificationhas already been adoptedbothby the NationalForest
Administration (which has certified over 1million ha of forests to Forest Stewardship Council
standards), as well as by private forest owners in several Private Forest Districts. The view now
i s that there i s a need for a diversity o f standards for sustainable forest management, rather than a
single national standard (as had been envisaged at Appraisal).

10.       Finally, new technologies and the vastly expanded demand for information about the
status of forest management are opening up new opportunities for technical innovation which
had not beenconsidered at Appraisal. Government i s keen to develop investmentsin improved



                                                      2

systems for collecting, recording, andreporting forest management information, to which Project
management i s seeking to be responsive.

11.     Other aspects o f the Projectremainhighlyviable. Inparticular, the Project has provided
valuable support for preparing a Strategic Development Plan for the NFA and a comprehensive
training program for the Department o f Forests o f MARD, inpreparing and disseminating `Best
Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads Construction and Rehabilitation,' and inintroducingnew
methods of roads engineering inthe pilot forest roads rehabilitation program.

12.      On balance, the Forest Development Project is providing useful lessons for critical
stakeholders - Ministry forestry staff, the NFA, new private forest owners, and the timber
industry-but it was not conceived, designedor financed ina way which could substantially
affect performance under the new and expanded restitution regime. As the Project was originally
conceived, forest policy and management decisions were largely the purview o f the state, and
Project investments could be seen to be catalytic inmoving state forest management forward in a
way which would have addressedsector-wide objectives. Because key stakeholders are, now,
the greatly increasednumber ofnewprivate forest owners, the Project is not appropriate for
moving forward sector-wide reforms under this ownership regime.

13.     Giventhis fact, without significantly increased financing and without an additional and
comprehensive program o f activities -both of which are unlikely-the FDP i s unlikely to meet
its original objectives o f significantly improving sector-wide performance. This fact was
confirmed duringthe May 2007 MidtermReview, which proposed that the Project's
Development Objectives should be modified to describe what the Project was likely to
accomplish. After considerable internal discussion inGovernment, agreement was reached to
move forward with proposed revisions.

14.     The substantial changes inthe institutional and policy framework have had a direct
impact on the pace o f Project implementationas well, which was slow to get off the ground.
Progress was hinderedbecause of effectiveness delays, far reaching institutional changes
(including the subordination o f the Forest Inspectorates to the Ministry o f Control followed by
their reversion to MinistryofAgriculture andRuralDevelopment(MARD),as well as various
Ministerialrestructurings), and management disruptions causedby the election cycle (which
resultedindelays inthe approval o f investment-related activities by MARD). Implementation
delays were also structural, and were related to the design o f the Project, particularly the Bank's
environmental safeguard requirementswhich requiredcompletiono f the `Best Practice
Guidelinesfor Forest Roads Constructionand Rehabilitation' (which involved extensive internal
and external consultations) before any substantive measures could be undertaken with respect to
the forest roads rehabilitationactivities, which account for around 60 percent ofthe loan
proceeds. Because o f delays, ImplementationPerformance ratings were downgraded to
Unsatisfactory inmid-2007.

15.     One o f the outcomes o f the delays has been that the costs for forests roads rehabilitation
have beenfar greater than that envisaged at Appraisal - an outcome o f both currency
appreciation and domestic inflation - andthis will likely affect the extent to which roads
rehabilitation activities can be completed.




                                                  3

C.       Proposed Changes

 16.     Revised Project Development Objectives. Government has proposed that the Project's
Development Objectives should be revised more accurately to reflect what can be achieved given the
financing which is available, and within the prevailing policy, institutional, and legal framework. The
revisedDevelopmentObjectivesofthe Projectare proposedto be,

         "...(i)to improvethe managementof state-owned forests throughcapacity building and
         technical innovation for environmentally-sustainable and cost effective forest
         management, and (ii)     to improve the management o f private forests by establishing pilot
         forest management institutions and systems for underservedprivate forest owners."

 17.     Revised Project Description. Overall, the project will support implementationof four project
components, rather than the five originally envisaged at Appraisal. The scope of the project is expected
to change, as follows:

Part A. EstablishSystems to Ensure Sustainable Managementof Private ForestLands

18.      This component will continue to provide the support envisaged at Appraisal, with several
exceptions. Support for the Forest Inspectorates is being scaled in a manner which is consistentwith the
current institutionalframework, which involves 9 regional offices of the Forest Inspectorates, and which
does not involvesilvic district offices.

19.      The expected nationalprogramof support for privateforest owners is to be scaled back to a series
of pilot initiatives. The target groups for these initiativesare private forest owners who operate small and
fragmented holdings, who are not easily servicedvia the more formal structures which have developed,
such as PrivateForestDistricts. Government has chosen to focus on around a dozen pilot forest owners
associations, largely comprisedof underservedprivate forest owners, on developinglessons learned from
working with these associations, and on preparinga strategy for further support for this particular group
of private forest owners. Plansto develop national standards for sustainable forest managementare being
dropped, to allow for a diversity of nationalstandardsdevelopment.

20.     The development of the Forest Management and InformationMonitoring System (FMIMS) is to
proceed as planned, but Government intends to complement the work which is underway by developing
designs for a Forest Geographic Information System (Forest GIs) which would eventually be
incorporatedintothe FMIMS. This is not a significantchange in the original component design.

Part B.Mitigate the Consequencesof Restitutionon Managementof StateForestLands

21.     New forest roads construction and railway infrastructure rehabilitation activities originally
envisaged at Appraisal are being dropped. Project activities are being limited to the rehabilitation of
existing forest roads. The forests roads which are being rehabilitatedhave been reduced in scope from
those envisagedat Appraisal from 425 kmto 220 km.

Part C.Support IncreasedProductivityand Competitivenessof ForestIndustries

22.     This component, which was designed to support the establishment o f a part publicly-funded
Forest Sector Business InformationCenter (ForsBIC), to provide independent business developmentand
advisory services, is being droppedbecause of the availability of privately financed informationservices
ofthis type.



                                                       4

23.      Other Project components (Part D. Build Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management and
Part E.Project Management and Monitoring) are unchanged.

24.      There would be no significant changes in the Project's institutional arrangements, in financing
mechanisms, in Project management (in financial management, or in disbursement/procurement
arrangements), or changes to the Project's Closing Date. The implementation schedule has been changed
to backload disbursements, in line with plannedcontracting for forest roads.

25.      Reallocationof proceeds. Funds which had been originally allocated for the establishment of
the Forest Sector Business Information Center are being reallocated to finance the design of the Forest
Geographic Information System. The project cost and financing plan has been revised to accommodate
the partial reallocation ofthe loan proceeds. The revisedcomponentsand costs are indicated below.




D.       Analysis

26.      The proposed change in the Project's Development Objectives focuses the Project more critically
on where good success can be achieved within the prevailing institutional and policy framework. The
change narrows the range of the outcomes envisaged to those which are reasonably achievable within the
Project period, given the financing which is available, and is an acknowledgement of the need to focus
interventions on pilot initiatives and on areas which can generate lessons learned.

27.      With respect to specific proposed changes in Project activities, these are relatively minor.
Dropping of the small ForsBIC component is a rational choice, given the fact that the services envisaged
for ForsBIC are already being offered by private providers and do not require public financing. The
increased emphasis on improving the FMIMS, by reallocating funds earmarked for ForsBIC, reflects the
need for improved regulatory oversight for the larger number of private forest owners and the larger range
of technical options available for doing so, which were not available at Appraisal, but does not change
substantively the approach towards FMIMS development envisaged. The change in emphasis to support
underserved private forest owners reflects a strategic choice to develop institutional options for this
particular group of forest owners, for whom economies of scale and service delivery have been
problematic. Other groups of forest owners are already being serviced by other institutions. The move
toward recognizing a range of sustainable forest management standards is consistent with prevailing
international best practice for forest certification and is a pragmatic responseto the emergence of multiple
certification systems.

28.      With respect to the forest roads rehabilitation component, this activity has developed strong
learning dimensions to it, and has introduced new roads design and engineering practices to Romania. In
addition, the development of the `Best Practice Guidelines,' and their use in the pilot roads activities, has
introduced new standards of environmental stewardship in forest roads development. All of these



                                                       5

outcomes have been highly desirable, and are not diminished by reducing the lengthor number of roads to
be rehabilitated. As the PAD pointed out originally, the roads component was conceived o f as a pilot
activity anyway, and it retains this character regardless o f the proposal to scale back the initial targets.

29.      The Project's original economic analysis suggestedreturns to the FDP were likely to be high and
especially robust, and established that returns would be most sensitive to reduced timber prices and to a
reduction in the area to be restituted. With respect to timber prices, in real terms, these have increased by
at least 2 percent annually since the Project was approved.' With respect to the area restituted, this has
greatly exceeded initial expectations, and, provided that outcomes are consistent with those expected at
Appraisal, returns from activities associated with restitution are also expected to be robust.

30.      With respect to dropping o f the ForsBIC component, economic returns to this activity were not
calculated at Appraisal because most o f the benefits were expected to be non-quantified. By reallocating
these funds to preparation o f the FMIMS activity, returns are also expected to increase because o f
improved regulatory oversight, which i s the envisaged outcome.

31.      Of greater concern is the higher cost of forest roads rehabilitation. The original economic
analysis calculated returns o f 24 percent to this component. This was based on an assessment o f expected
returns to individual roads subprojects, and assumed constant real pricing over the expected 50 year life
of the forest roads. The Project team has revisited this assessment. The proposed reduction in targets
from 425 km o f forest roads to 220 km o f forest roads represents a defacto increase in the unit costs o f
roads rehabilitation o f 93 percent. Changing the costhenefit analysis to reflect this reduces the IRR from
24 percent to 14 percent - still an acceptable rate o f return.             An analysis of a sample of roads

estimated returns. Ifone incorporates modest price increases into the analysis -- a reasonable assumption
rehabilitation sub-project o f their sensitivity to price increases confirms the magnitude o f the change in

in the face of increasing global demand for wood and paper products - the returns increase to around 17
percent for a 2 percent annual increase in the price o f wood (typical for pine logs), and to 21 percent for a
5 percent annual increase (typical for oak logs).

E.       Expected Outcomes

32.      Because o f the reallocation o f funds, expected outcomes will modestly change. Most o f these are
changes in intermediate outcomes.

34.      Changes to outcomes to Part A: Outcomes with respect to work with the Forest Inspectorates
are consistent with those envisaged at Appraisal, but the project will be working within the prevailing
institutional framework for doing this, which involves only 9 regional inspectorates (rather than the 16
inspectorates and 100 silvic districts envisaged at Appraisal). Outcomes with respect to work with private
forest owners are being scaled back to focus on developing 12 pilot initiatives for working with
associations of underserved private forest owners, to develop lessons learned from working with these
associations, and then to develop a strategy for further support for this particular group o f private forest
owners. Project support for the development o f a single national standard for sustainable forest
management is beingdropped. Other planned outcomes remain unchanged.

35.      Changes to outcomes to Part B: Outcomes with respect to the development o f a series of pilot
forest roads activities envisaged at Appraisal remain unchanged, which are to reduce the environmental
impact o f forest roads and to improve the economic viability o f wood harvesting in state owned


1        BetweenDecember 2002 and May 2007, for pine logs. Other species show higher annual rates of
increase - 3.9 percent for spruce and 5 percent for oak logs. Derived from the timber producerprice index
(Germany), UNECEdatabase.


                                                          6

production forests. Targets, however, are beingreducedfrom 425 km envisaged at Appraisal to 220 km,
and are solely for roads rehabilitation(rather thanfor new constructionor railwayrehabilitation).

36.      Changes to outcomes to Part C. As Part Cythe establishment of the Forest Sector Business
Information Center, is being dropped from the project, outcomes which envisaged a strong public sector
role in facilitating business activitiesof the forest sector are beingdropped. This role is beingtaken on by
the privatesector.

37.      Changesto outcomes to PartsD and E. Outcomes envisagedat Appraisal remainunchanged.

38.      Progress in meeting the Development Objectives with respect to state-owned forests - better
environmental and economic outcomes, and improved capacity for managing state forests - is being
monitored by evaluating uptake and impact of the `Best Practice Guidelines for Forest Roads
Construction,' monitoringof forest roads rehabilitationperformanceagainst those guidelines (both in the
pilot roads rehabilitationprogram and in any new forest roads rehabilitation efforts), and the economic
benefits of reduced log harvesting costs associated with roads rehabilitation. Implementation of the
Strategic Development Framework for the National Forest Administration, as well as the capacity for
undertakingimprovedforest monitoringare also beingtrackedas intermediateoutcomes.

39.      Progress in meeting the Development Objectives with respect to underserved private forest
owners is beingmonitoredby tracking progress with the pilot initiatives, by assessingthe extentto which
`lessons learned' from pilot activities are being acted on, and by tracking implementationof the strategy
preparedwith project support for dealingwith this group of privateforest owners.

F.       Benefitsand Risks

40.      Benefits of implementingthis restructuringinclude fiscal savings, better services to new private
forest owners, improved regulatory capacity, and better targeting of Project interventions to address
specific learningoutcomes.

41.      Risks are expectedto be quite low.




                                                       7

