I-Al 3MS'Rw
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10037-MAS Type:  (SAR)                      Report No. 10037-MAS
VIDRUS, L./ X34188 / J10063/ AF2AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
bMAURITI1JS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VARCH 5, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regiori
This documelnt has a restricted distribution and May be used by recipients Only in the performance of
thelr official duties. Its contents may not ot!..wIse be d(scosed without World Bank authorizatio.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate:      $1.00 =  MRs 15.5
$.0645= MRs 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                            British
1 ha                             2.47 acres
1 km                              0.62 miles
1 kg                              2.2 pounds
1 metric ton                      2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEDP         -      Bagasse Energy Development Program
CEB          -      Central Electricity Board
EC           -      European Community
Gwh          -      Gigawatt hour
GEF          -      Global Environment Facility
GET          -      Global Environment Trust Fund
IBRI)        -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Kwh          -      Kilowatt hour
MRs          -      Mauritian Rupees
MW           -      Megawatt
Mwh          -      Megawatt hour
SAL          -      Structural Adjustment Loan
GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ...                    .................... ii
I.      HIE SUCGAR SECCTOR .1.......                      ........ ..
A. Industry Structure and Performance - An Overview    ..
B.   Sectoral Strategy, Policy Framework and Investnent Program.                           3
C.  Past Experiences and Rationale for Bank and GEF Involveinent           .       .      5
II. THE BAGASSE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM .                                  .                  7
A.  The Potential for Bagasse Use in Energy Production.                                   7
D.   The Power Sector - Supply, Demand and Expansion Plan.                                9
C. Program Objectives and Investments .11
D.  Investments in Power Production and Bagasse Saving .12
E.  Technology and Staff Development ...                                                   12
F. Costs and Financing .14
G.  Regulatory Framework and Institutional Arrangements for
Program Iplementation .14
III. THE PROJECT    ..17
A. Objectives and Salient Features .17
B.   Components ...................................                                        18
C. Costs and Financing .22
D. Procurement and Disbursement .                                                         25
E. Organlzation and Implementation .27
IV. BENEFffS AND RISKS ...32
A. Power Production                  ................ 32
B. FinancialBenefits ................. 32
C. Economic Benefits .......                       ......... 34
D). Environmental Impact ......                   ..........  34
E. Risks                    ................ 35
tiiport i, bas  on the fidigs of an app-raial mission which vistd Mauritius in September 1991, comprising
IL Vidacus, 0. Mohadjer, C.N. Raghavan (Bank) and F. Adam and T. Biswas (Consultants). Computing assistance was
Weov Wed by M.L. Ah-Kee and secrial assistance by M. Gunawardane. K. Newcombe was the Lead Advisor for the
prjeca. Ths SOD managing chief 1. Shivakumar and P. Lethem (Project Advisor) reviewed the project at the PEPS.
~~rapitia1and yellow cover SAR stages.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ......... ............  36
A.  Assurances Obtained During Negotiations ..........      ...................  36
B.  Conditions of IBRD Loan/GET Grant Effectiveness .......      ................  38
C.  Recommendation ....................................... .  38
TABLES
Table 2.1         Bagasse Availabile for Use by Bagasse-cum-Coal Power Plants
Table 2.2         Energy Demand Forecast and Power Supply Expansion Requirements
Table 3.1         Project Cost Summary
Table 3.2         Financing Plan
Table 3.3         Procurement Methods Covering IBRD and GET Funded Project Components
Table 4.1         Projected Production and Use of Electrical Power at the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory
Table 4.2         Financial Summary of Power Plant Operations
ANNEXES
Annex 1           The Sugar A,ction Plan - Objectives and Implementation
Annex 2           The Sugar Industry's Contributions to National Power Supply
Annex 3           Assessment of Bagasse Availability
Annex 4           Proposed Investments Program for Bagasse Energy Development 1992 to 1997
Annex 5           Technical Features of Bagasse-and-Coal Fired Power Plants
Annex 6           Energy Pricing
Annex 7           Organizational and Management Arrangements for BEDP Coordination
Annex 8           Project Cost Summary Tables
Annex 9           Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 10          Technology and Staff Development
Annex 1I          Summary of Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 12          Environmental Assessment - Summary
Annex 13          Implementation Schedule and Supervision Plan
Annex 14          Lists of Eligible Imports for Mill Investments
Annex 15          Documents for Project File
MhP               IBRD 19358 - Mauritius Sugar Estates



- Iii -
MAURTITIS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Government of Mauritius
Benefidaries:             Sugar Companies, the Mauritius Sugar Authority,
and the Central Electricity Board
Amount:                   IBRD Loan $15 million equivalent; GET Grant $3.3 million
equivalent
Loan Interest LR-W:       Standard variable
Commitment Charge:        Standard
Terms:                     17 years, including 5 years of grace
Relending Terms:          Not applicable
Project Objectives: The project would support a first time-slice of an eight-year Bagasse Energy
Development Program (BEDP). The project objectives are to: (a) expand
bagasse-generated electricity production in five years from 70 Gigawatt hours
(Gwh) to 120 Gwh and thus displace 10,000 tons of diesel fuel annually; (b)
promote use of bagasse now burned for disposal and support a program of
mill improvements to further increase bagasse availability for power
generation; (c) promote efficient use of biomass fuels for energy production
through trials and experiments on bagasse transport and use of cane residues;
and (d) strengthen implementation of BEDP through technical and institutional
support for program management and coordination and for environmental
monitoring.
Components:         The main project activities would be to: (a) establish a 22MW bagasse-and-
coal fired power plant at the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory in the southern
sugar region; (b) increase the supply of bagasse for power production through
investments to improve steam use and generation at several sugar mills; (c)
develop technology for the efficient use of biomass for energy--including the
local adaptation of technologies to transport bagasse-and trials and
experiments (in field and factory) to use cane residue as fuel for power
generation; and (d) strengthen implementation of BEDP through technical
assistance and training services to the Mauritius Sugar Authority and the
Central Electricity Board (CEB) in program implementation and environmental
monitoring.
Financing:          The proposed Bank loan would provide foreign exchange support, covering
about 65 percent of the total cost, for the investnents by sugar factories in
improved steam generation and use. Financing for the power plant is
expected to come from external sources other than the Bank, including funds
from other donors, suppliers' credits, and the investor's contribution and local
commercial bank financing. The Global Environment Trust l:und (GET)
would finance components (c) and (d) and, as such, lend support to the local
development and adaptation of replicable technologies to use cane residues for
power production. The GET also would finance technical assistance and
training for implementation of BEDP, including environmental minitoring.



"iv -
Benefits:           There are multiple project benefits. On the agricultural side the diversification
by the sugar sector into electricity production will strengthen the sector
financially and make it less vulnerable to shocks in the sugar market. On the
energy side, bagasse-and-coal plants, the least-cost option for power
generation, will save the country foreign exchange, and will mobilize private
sector resources into Infrastructure investments. Environmentally, the
proposed project is superior to the alternative of CEB's establishing anotlher
slow-speed diesel plant at Port Louis. Total acid gases and greenhouse gases
would be less than with another diesel plant. Particulate emissions would
increase from the burning of coal, but abatement measures would keep such
increments to a minimum. In the longer term, the development of technology
to use cane residues other than bagasse, to be initiated under the project, is
expected to increase the benefits in all of the above areas.
The economic internal rate of return of project investments (estimated at 18
percent) highlights the gains from using a local renewable biomass fuel with
essentially no alternative uses, instead of imported fossil fuel to generate
electricity. The rate of return is relatively tobust to increases in coal prices,
falling diesel prices, and reduced availability of bagasse--with coal to pick up
the slack--if sugar production fell as a result of lower sugar prices. On the
foreign exchange side, the substitution of bagasse supplemented by coal for
diesel is expected to save Mauritius $2 million (1991 dollars) annually,
starting in 1994.
Risks:              The project risks are that, first, delays in implementation of the BEDP policy
framework will induce the private sector to postpone investments, and second,
timely financing of the power plant would not be forthcoming. The first risk
is adoessed by the conditions of effectiveness for the Bank loan and the GEF
Grant as well as by the project's support for the management and coordinadon
of BEDP. This support emphasizes the continuation of the Bank's role in
fostering collaboration between the public sector and the sugar industry. If
the risk materializes and the industry were to postpone the power plant
investment, CEB would go ahead with its alternative slow-speed diesel plant,
and the establishment of the Union St. Aubin power plant would slip into the
1995 slot in the energy expansion path. The second risk--lack of timely
financing for the power plant--is not a serious risk given the current level of
donor interest. In the event it were to occur, the proposed Bank loan would
not become effective, leaving the possibility open for renegotiation of such
financing.
The technical complexity of the project and the industry's capability to
implement it are not considered risks given that the production technology is
well established and the industry's proven record of technical efficiency.
Risks of incremental air emissions having adverse impact on population,
vegetation and wildlife have been estimated as acceptable, but monitoring
arrangements will be put in place to ensure that environmental objectives are
not jeopardized. Overall, project design and up front conditionality are
formulated to reduce the risks of project i-mplementation failure.



ESTIMATED COSTS (S million) Y
Component:                                    Local      Foreign      Total
A.  Establishment of Power Plants               4.7         19.3       23.9
B.  Improvement in Mill Efficiency              6.3         11.8       18.1
C.  Technology and Manpower Development          .5          1.0        1.6
D.  BEDP Program Coordination                    .2          1.1        1.3
Total Baseline Costs                           11.7        33.1        44.9
Physical Contingencies                          1.2          3.2        4.4
Price Contingencies                             1.7         4.1         5.8
Total Project Costs                            14.6        40.5        55.1
1/   Numbers may not add up exactly because of rounding.
FINANCING PLAN ($ million)
Source:                                       Local      Foreign      Total
IBRD                                             -        15.0        15.0
GET                                             .7         2.6         3.3
Other foreign soures                           .2         22.9        23.1
Local                                         13.7           -        13.7
Total                                         14.6        40.5        55.1
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS ($ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year            FY93    FY94    PY95    FY96    FY97
IBRD)    Annual              2.1      2.1      3.0      3.8      4.0
Cumulative          2.1      4.2      7.i    11.0       15.0
GET     Annual               0.9      1.3       .7      .3        .1
Cumulative          0.9      2.2      2.9      3.2      3.3
TOTAL  Cumulative            3.0      6.4     10.1    14.2       18.3
Economic Rate of Retur: 18 percent



MAURIfTIS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. TE SUGAR SECTOR
1.1     Sugar has been the mainstay of the Mauritian economy since its introduction in the
seventeenth century. As production reached a plateau of about 600,000 to 650,000 tons, determined
by international demand and local land availability, other sectors such as tourism and manufactured
exports have led the growth of the economy. While the sugar Industry remains the largest net foreign
exchange-earning sector, its relative contribution to the Gross Domestic Product has been declining.
A viable sugar industry is, however, essential to continued economic growth and social stability. The
Government and the industry agree that growth from within the sugar industry has to come
increasingly from enhanced use of the industry's by-products and improved marketing, particularly on
the markets of the European Community (EC).
1.2     Use of bagasse-the fibrous material separated during cane crushing--and other sugar
biomass offers the industry the opportunity to increase value added and diversify revenue sources.
Bagasse offers an opportunity to reduce the country's dependence on imported fossil fuels for power
generation and meet an expanding demand for electricity. A successful partnership between the
Government and the private sector sugar industry has produced a blueprint to realize this opportunity,
paving the way for the proposed project. The development of sugar biomass as a source of energy,
however, has to be consistent with national energy planning and can be sustained only if the sugar
industry is healthy. In turn, bagasse energy development is a key to the modernization of the sugar
industry. Hence, proposals for bagasse energy development have to consider the structure and
performance of the industry and policies that influence decisions by sugar growers and manufacturers.
A. Industry Structure and Performance - An Overview
1.3     Sugar cane is highly suited to the island. Cultivation benefits from the fertile volcanic soils,
and sugar cane can withstand frequent cyclones better than most other crops. Mauritian producers
continue to enjoy a ready export outlet in the form of export quotas and preferential prices. lhe
Sugar Protocol of the Lome Convention assures Mauritian sugar producers of an annual quota of
exports to the EC of about 500,000 tons which accounted for about 89 percent of total expors in
1990. Seven percent of the exports were sold to the United States under import quotas, and the
remaining four percent was sold in other markets at world prices. Exports accounted for 93 percent
of production in 1990. The guaranteed sugar price offered by EC remained constant over the
1984/85 - 1988/89 period, but has since dropped by 2 percent as a result of the EC agricultural
policy. 1/ This policy is expected to continue to put downward pressure on prices for Mauritian
sugar. On the other hand, Mauritius, like other countries benefitting from the Sugar Protocol, are
expected to continue their lobbying efforts to secure preferential sales prices.
1.4     The present strucure of the industry has evolved gradually. In the last century the area
under cane has doubled and the output of sugar has increased fivefold. Milling has become
I]  EC also agreed to grant Mauritius compensation for the marketing years 1989/90, 1990/91, and 1991/92 in an
amount offsetting the effect of the 1989/90 price reduction.



-2-
concentrated in larger factories, now numbering 19--one publ;e and 18 private sector-as compared
with about 250 a century earlier. These factories, with assoc.ated large estates referred to as miller-
planters, account fbr 55 percent of the island's cane area and 60 percent of the cane crushed. The
remaining 40 percent of the island's cane is grown or 45 percent of the cane area by some 33,000
small planters. Many of these planters cultivate individual holdings below 2 hectares part time.
Smallholders and estate owners, are entitled to 76 pert ent of the sugar and 100 percent of the
molasses and filter cake obtained from their cane. The mill takes 24 percent of the sugar as payment
for milling. The planter's share in the sugar accruals has increased, most recently in 1988.
!.5     The sugar industry operates in a highly organized institutional structure, involving
parastatals and private organizations. At the apex is the Mauritius Sugar Authority, established by the
Government in 1984 to coordinate industry groups, and advise the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Natural Resources on sugar industry policy and planning. The development of this agency into
an efficient body has been one of the objectives of the ongoing Bank-financed Sugar Industry Project
(para. 1.20). Other parastatal organizations are responsible for sugar research, crop insurance, export
marketing, regulation of factory areas, and arbitration of industry disputes. The Mauritius Chamber
of Agriculture and the Mauritius Sugar Producers Association are private sector organizations
representing mainly the sugar producing interests and serving as forums for debate and policy
forzmulation.
Performance
1.6     Industry performance over the last two decades reflects developments in export markets,
exchange rate movements, weather factors, the labor supply and labor market rigidities, and
Government policies. In the early to mid-1970s sugar output grew steadily, supported by increasing
demand in preferential markets and rapidly rising woi'd market prices. As the international price
trend reversed itself during the second half of the decade, output stagnated and industry performance
started declining, as measured by reduced catput, falling profit levels, and a subsequent drop in
investment activities. This decline, however, was caused primarily by Government policies
(particularly the increase in the sugar export tax in 1979), with cyclones and drought contributing in
large measure to output reductions.
1.7     These developments caused concern about the continued viability of the sector and the
sustainability of production to meet the Government's commitments under the Sugar Protocol.
Consequently, the Govemment, in partnership with the industry, designed and began to implement a
program to restructure the sugar industry, aiming at maintaining the long-term viability of the sector,
increasing investment in replacement and modernization, and rationalizing industry operations on a
national scale. The Bank was actively involved in the dialogue on this program, established under the
Sugar Action Plan (para. 1.12).
1.8     The Sugar Action Plan policy decisions which provided export duty relief and lifted the ban
on mill closures (two mills closed in 1985) contributed to improved industry profitability after 1985.
This improvement was boosted by increased average production levels, caused by favorable weather
conditions and advantageous exchange rate movements. Government policy initiatives in 1988 were
designed to further strengthen the viability and efficiency of the sugar industry (para. 1.15). Over the
last five years, the industry has faced an increasing shortage of labor. This has resulted from the
movement of the economy toward full employment and the attraction of employment in the growing
manufacturing and service sectors. As a result, the industry is increasingly considering the
mechanization of field operations.



-3-
1.9     While Mauritius's sugar export quota is assured under the Sugar Protocol, prices paid by
the EC countries will dep^d on developments in the EC Common Agricultural Policy. Whether such
developments will lead to gradual and moderate declines in sugar prices, as has been the case since
1988/89, or to moro precipitous price drops, is difficult io predict. The Mauritian sugar industry is,
however, already adjusting to these developments and is expected to intensify the pace of these
adjustments with any continued downward pressure on exporw prices. First, the industry is
increasingly capturing price premiums for specialty sugars. Second, it seeks to increase yields and
contain costs through introduction of improved irrigation techniques, mechanization, and derocking of
land. Third, adjusatment measures to preserve the overall financial viability of the sugar sector will
increasingly lead to a concentration of sugar manufacthring to larger and more profitable mills.
Fourth, an efficient sugar industry research program helps to increase productivity in field operations,
partly by introducing higher-yielding varieties, which also have higher fiber (bagasse) content. Fifth,
improved use of by-products, such as bagasse anu molasses, helps to diversify revenue basket sources
and reduce the industry's vulnerability to sugar price shocks. And, the Government has instituted
adequate mechanisms for reviewing on a regular basis the profitability of the sugar industry and the
need for adjustments in sugar sector policies (para. 1.14).
B. Sectoral Strategy, Policy Framework, and Invcstment Program
1.10    The Government's central objective for the sugar sector is to ensure that the industry
produces a target quantity of sugar with maximum economic efficiency, emphasizing growth in
productivity and paving the way for a gradual release of resources for diversification. The target
level of annual production which needs to take into consideration all marketing commitments Is now
set at 650,000 tons. This central objective-efficiency-has to be tempered by distributional objectives
related to ownership of assets, employment benefits, and Government revenues. Given the
importance of the sugar sector to the economy, maintenance of social stability in the sector is a
primary coneern.
1.11    The above objectives recognize that sugar will remain the mainstay of the estate and
farming economy for some time. Market constraints for sugar exports imply that long-term sustained
growth in the agricultural sector will depend on diversiPfcation of production in both estate and
smallholder sectors. The returns to growing sugar cane remain high relative to other crops, and no
single crop is expected to emerge as a large-scale alternative to sugar. Release of land from cane to
other crops is therefore expected to be gradual, in a lagged response to the decline of net returns to
sugar relative to other crops. This, in turn, will depend on future movements in sugar prices, the
level of marketing commitments, the cost of labor, and the productivity in estate and smaliholder
farming of sugar. It will also depend on the development of high value agricultural export products
such as cut flowers for which Mauritian producers would have a comparative advantage and the
access to overseas markets. Continued growth in this area will require further market research and
production trials, supported by the necessary adaptive research and variety testing. For fresh fruit
and vegetables, the constraints imposed by the perishability of the produce, distance to markets, costs
and availability of air freight, and the often specialized market demand will need to be addressed in
order to facilitate the development of this industry.
1.12    The Government's strategy for the sector is -i: (a) maintain regulations that foster efticiency
in resource allocation and production; (b) encourage a healthy business environment by building trust
among industry elements and promoting transparency and accountability; and (c) improve smallholder
productivity through public support services and programs. The blueprint for implementation of this



'-4.
strategy was established in partnership with the Industry under the Sugar Action Plan of 1985. 21
Annex I provides an ovorview of the Sugar Action Plan and how the Bank through its lending
progeam has supported the implementation of the plan.
The Regulatory Environment
1.13    The Government hae traditiongly intervened in the sugar industry through taxation. The
export taxes on sugar were high and taxes on land transfers and corporate income impeded the
mobility and rational use of the sector's resources. The impact of taxation on industry profitability
and investment performance was the subject of much dialogue between the industry and Government
during the latter half of the 1980s. This dialogue was encumbered by the lack of objective
measurements of Industry profitability and the absence of a standardized industry accounting
convention.,
1.14    Important reforms of the structure and level of taxation on the industry have, however, been
implemented in recent years, based on a comprehensive review of fiscal options and profitability
goals, carried out in the context of the Bank-financed Sugar Industry Project. The Sugar Industry
EfMdency Study, conducted with sugar industry participation, established that the level of sugar
export duty needs to be responsive to the industry's profitability-.the latte.r, in turn, being determined
largely by international sugar market conditions and cost factors outside the industry's control. The
Study recommended periodic adjustment of the nominal export duty with reference to minimum levels
of industry profitability; the latter to be measured usinly "allowable costs," based on standards for
operational efficiency. In response, the Government in,xtituted a package of taxation policy measures
under the Sugar Industry Efficiency Act of 1988, the industry agreed to submit standardized
accounting information, and the Mauritius Sugar Authority undertook to objectively evaluate the
industry's financial performance, assess the effects of Government policies, and recommend policy
adjustments.
1.15    The aim of the Sug2r Industry Efficiency Act is to provide for "an efficient and viable sugar
industry' while seeking "to promote agricultural diversiflcation and diversification within sugar."
The Aut's main reforms were the reduction. of the nominal export duty rate and an increase in the
exemption limit on the duty. A system of export duty rebates was introduced to provide incentives
for improved sugar recovery, enhanced use of bagasse for electricity production, and use of marginal
cane lands, interline and inter-cycle rotational land, for production of crops other than sugar.
Through these measures the average export duty paid dropped from about 20 to 13.5 percent,
equivalent to a tax relief to the industry in 1990 of about Rs. 200 million ($12.7 million equivalent).
I/ Further tax reforms involved the elimination of the milling tax and the export duty onl molasses.
Finally, amendments to the Income Tax Act provided incentives to pruduce high-quality sugar
products, save energy in sugar factories, and use bagasse to produce electricity--all addressing the
Sugar Action Plan objectives.
2/ The Bank's in-depth review of the sugar sector in Mauritius, (The Sugar Sector: Problems and Prospects,
Report No. 5812-MAS, March 1986) was instrumental in assisting the Government and the industry in
jointly formulating a program to restructure the sugar industry.
l! AU $ are US$.



bidustry Investments and Bagasse Energy Development
1.16    Under an improved business envionment for the sugar sector, as enhanced by the Initiatives
under the Sugar Industry Efficiency Act, the industry in 1990 presented an ambitious investment
program for mill rehabilitation and modernization, Irrigation and diversification. The five-year
program (1990 to 1995) proposes investments on the order of $130 million. This includes $53
nillion for rehabilitation and modernization of sugar production and $27 million for bagasse saving
and handling operations, expansion of the industry's capacity to prod4ce electricity, and pollution
a0. -ent. 4/
1.17    Enhanced use of sugar by-products, including bagasse for electricity production, remains a
key objective of the Sugar Action Plan. Delays in this area were caused primarily by a lack of
Government coordination of sugar and energy sector policies and inadequate incent.ves to sugar
ompanies for energy related investments. To address the Sugar Action Plan's agenda on use of by-
products In the sugar industry, the Government In partnership with the private sector is now
launching the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP). This program, reviewed in Chapter
lI, projects medium-term investment requirements for bagasse energy development, establishes a
supporting policy and institutional framework, and defilnes priorities and programs for technology and
manpower development to further develop the use of biomass for energy production.
C. Past Eiperiences and Rationale for Bank and GEF Involvement
1.18    The main experience from completed Bank-flnanced projects in the agricultural sector is that
the project design needs to carefully integrate investments with policy and institutional reforms. This
lesson was drawn from the Tea Project (Cr. 239-MAS, closed in 1980) as well as the Rural
Development Project (Cr. 419-MAS, closed in 1979). The former project was unsuccessful In
designing an institutional framework for smallholder tea growing  - promoting cost effectiveness of
the Tea Development Authority. Some progress in these areas was, however, covered u.der two
Stuctural Adjustment Loans (SALs) (Ln. 2010-MAS and Ln. 2361-MAS). Similarly, the Rural
Development Project did not fulffill production exptctations due to design shortcomings. Under both
operations, problems in public sector operations helped shift focus to the potential in the private
sector through creation of an appropriate business environment.
1.19    These lessons were usefully applied and helped the Bank have a major effect on the
restructuring of the sugar industry. Ihis effect was achieved through a combination of instruments.
Under the two SAL operations, major policy reforms were introduced to Inprove incentrives and
efficiency. Consensus building was pursued through intensive dialogue with the Goverunent and the
private sector during the preparation of a comprehensive report on the sugar sector (ref. footnote on
page 3). The Bank assisted through its Technical Assistance Project for the preparation of the Sugar
Action Plan.
1.20    The ongoing World Bank-financed Sugar Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS) is designed to
assist the Government in implementing the Sugar Action Plan. The objectives are to: (a) modernize
sugar mills by providing foreign exchange; (b) increase the productivity of resources used in the
A/  This investmet progam Nas presnted for review at the Intemational Meeting on the Agriculture Sector,
held in Mauritius in December 1990.



-6-
sector and strengthen the financial performance of the industry through policy reform; (c) maintain
social stability in the industry by increasing transparency and preparing the Mauritius Sugar Authority
for its role in policy planning and coordination; (d) improve farmer productivity through more
efficient extension, farm services, and input supplies; and (e) strengthen research on technology
development and efforts to develop irrigation services. The project, now in its sixth and final year,
has successfully implemented most of the above objectives. Loan fumds have been disbursed on
schedule. Major policy reforms covenanted under the Loan Agreement have been taken (paras. 1.14-
1.15). The Farmers' Service Center program is off to a promising start in providing centralized
services to nmers and promoting farm productivity through the organization of Land Management
Units. Tc project has supported investments by private sector mills in rehabilitating factories and
upgrading technology at a total cost of about $25 million during 1987 to 1991. Project efforts to
strengthen technology research and irrigation have proven less successful, because of institutional
constraints. These constraints will be addressed under the Agricultural Management and Serv.ces
Project (Ln. 3333-MAS), expected to be declared effective shortly. This project extends the Bank's
assistance to support the Government's modernization program for the agricultural sector by focusing
on sectoral management and delivery of support services.
1.21    The proposed Bank support for BEDP is a logical extension of the Bank's involvement with
the Government and the private sector in restructuring the sugar industry under the Sugar Action
Plan. Through a continuing dialogue with the Government on sugar policy, supported under the
ongoing Sugar Industry Project, and building on earlier initiatives in the energy sector, the Bank has
facilitated a consensus between the Government and private sector on the scope of the institutional and
policy framework for BEDP. The Government is lcoking to the Bank to take the lead in mobilizing
external support for BEDP. Bank assistance for implementation of a first phase of BEDP is expected
to encourage other donors to fund the program.
Rationale for Involvement of the Global Environment Facility
1.22    The environmental attractiveness of using sugar biomass as energy in Mauritius is founded
on the fact that bagasse and other residues are currently being bumt wastefuilly-bagasse in the
factory, cane tops, leaves and trash in the fieid. The conversion of such wasteful burning practices
into efficient use for electricity production would eliminate air emissions, including greenhouse gases,
associated with the displaced fossil fuels. Hence, the proposed BEDP investment program (paras.
2.19-2.20) with its emphasis on immediate use of bagasse and longer term use of other cane residues
for power production relates directy to the Global Environment Facility's (GEF's) objective of
reducing global warming.
1.23    To fully develop the potential for sugar cane power, two main contstraints must be
overcome. First, a policy and instititional environment needs to be put in place and maintained to
induce private sector investments in power cogeneration. A key feature of such an environment is a
forum within which the private sector is able to plan and coordinate its investment decisions to
generate power for the grid with the decisions of the national energy planners and the load
management requirements of the public power utility. Coordination of public and private sector
activities within a bagasse energy development program Is therefore essential. Second, cost effective
technologies for use of cane residues, other than bagasse, for power production need to be developed.
Involvement by GEF would help address both of these constraints. Concessional financing through
the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) would reduce high transaction costs for establishing public
and private sector collaboration in BEDP management and implementation. It would also provide



-7..
incentives for accelerating technology and manpower development to sustain usp of sugar biomass for
power beyond the limits of bagasse.
1.24   TMe potential savings in greenhouse gases from the Mauritian power sector alone are limited
by overall demand and the size of the population. However, replication or adaptation of the program
elsewhere would enhance the impact on the global warming objective. The demonstration of
successful implementation of the proposed program for bagasse energy development in Mauritius, and
in particular the development of technologies for production of cane-power, offer opportunities for
replication in other countries. This prospects adds importantly to the rationale for GEF involvement
in the proposed project.
II. THE BAGASSE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
2.1     Expanded and efficient use of bagasse for electricity production would allow Mauritius to
substitute a local renewable biomass fuel for imported fossil fuels, with ensuing economic benefits to
the country, financial benefits to the sugar industry, and positive environmental consequences. To
this end, the Government and the private sector have agreed on the scope, institutional framework,
and Government policies for an eight-year $100 million program of investment and technology
development. This program, summarized below (Sections C to E), is based on an assessment of the
availability of bagasse (Section A) and the integration of bagasse-based .nergy development into the
national energy expansion plan (Section B).
A. The Potential for Bagasse Use in Energy Production
Bagasse As a Source of Energy
2.2     Bagasse is about 15 percent of the weight of sugar cane as grown in the fleld or about 30
percent of the weight of the cane stalk as delivered to the factory for milling. With annual sugar
crops averaging around 5.8 million tons (1986 to 1989), about 1.7 million tons of bagasse are
produced each year as a by-product of sugar crushing. Bagasse is already a major source of energy
in Mauritius. It is used by the sugar factories as a boiler fuel to generate the steam and power needed
to drive mills and manufacture sugar. SI The quantity of sugar cane grown, however, produces
more bagasse than the factories require for internal power generation. Industrial use of bagasse for
paper manufacturing or particle board is not an economic option in Mauritius, given the small size of
the local market. Because of its limited commercial value, bagasse is burned inefficiently as a means
of disposal. Small quantities are sold as industrial boiler fuel and animal fodder. A surplus of
bagasse of about 430,000 tons, CTable 2.1) is potentially available for production of electricity for the
national grid.
I/ Electricity supplied from bagasse accounts for 13 percent of the total electricity use ia the country (1986 to
1989 average). If total energy use is taken into account, including the energy fcr sugar production, 50
percent of the total energy is supplied by bagasse.



2.3     About 50 percent of this surplus, or 232,000 tons, is now used annually by mills to generate
power for supply to the national grid. Seasonality in sugar production and climate-induced annual
variability in sugar crops require power plants at sugar mills to use a dual fuel system (bagasse-and-
ctal) to supply power to the Central Electricity Board (CEB) at guaranteed levels all year ('firm'
supply). 'Tlhis technology is well established at the Flacq United Estates Limited Sugar Factory,
which uses bagasse as fuel (luring the crop season (July-December) and coal the rest of the year.
-lwvo other factories use bagasse to supply the grid during the crop season only ("continuous" supply).
Of the remaining 16 factories, 12 supply electricity intermittently. Details on the sugar industry's
contribution to thbe supply of electricity to the national grid are in Annex 2.
Bagasse Availability
2.4      The potential bagasse surplus based on recent industry performance is estimated in
Table 2.1 (details in Annex 3).
Table 201: BAGASSE AVAILABLE FOR USE BY BAGASSE-AND-COAL
POWER PLANTS (tons)
1. Bagasse Currently Used for Intermittent Power Production      103,000
2. Bagasse Currently Burned Inefficiently:
(a) Available without investments                              98,000
(b) Available with investments                                ALQ00
3. Total Bagasse Surplus Available for use in
Power Production (Firm and Continuous),(l +2a+2b)             302,000
4. Bagass Currently Used for Power Production                     129.000
(Finr and Continuous)
S. Total Bagasse Available for Use in Power Production (3 + 4)   431,000
Source: The Mautitius Sugar Authority, the Central Electicity Board and
Bank mission estimates.
2.5     During 1986 to 1989, some 232,000 tons of bagasse (items 1 and 4 in Table 2.1) surplus to
the quantity used for sugar processing, have annually generated an average of 67 Gigawatt hours
(GWh) of electricity for the national grid equivalent to 13 percent of the public power supply.
Electricity produced per ton of bagasse has averaged an estimated 290 Kilowatt hours (KWh),
indicative of the inefficiency with which bagasse is used for power production. f/ In particular, the
103,000 tons of bagasse now used by 12 sugar companies in intermittent power production, could-
with enhanced steam generation and condensation efficiency-provide an additional 32 GWh for the
national grid. This would require incentives to encourage relatively inefficient producers of
inermittent power to make their surplus bagasse available to producers of 'firm' power. An
additional 199,000 tons of bagasse which is the incremental bagasse surplus (items 2a and b), is
fj/ While the one producer of "finn' power averaged 440 KWh/ton of bagasse, the two producers of
'continuous" power averaged between 380400 KWh/ton, and the twelve 'intermittent' power producers an
estimated 125 KWh/ton.



-9..
technically available for production of 88 GWbI. This incremenital power together with an improved
efficiency in electricity generation from bagasse of 32GWh would raise the power produced from
bagasse to about 120GWh per year, equivalent to 16 percent of the present annual consumption level-
736GWh--or 10 percent by 1997.
2.6     About half of the incremental bagasse surplus, or 101,000 tons, depends on mills
undertaking the necessary investments to improve their efficiency in s.eam generation and use (details
in Ainex 3, Table 2). The other half is available by diverting bagasse from wasteful incineration to
steam production for electricity generation largely through operational adjustments rather than
additional investments. The use of the incremental bagasse surplus for energy production would
require investments in additional power production facilities and/or a method to store and bale
bagasse for burning during the off-season. No such investments will be undertaken unless incentives
have been established through the pricing system, and energy contracting arrangements--appropriate to
the public utility and the private power producer-have been put firmly in place.
2.7     All but a small part of the incremental bagasse surplus is economically accessible for
electricity generation. The economic costs of plant operations, fuel transport, and power transmission
would be minimized by regionalizing-rather than centralizing--electricity production. Three
additional plants, each with a capacity of about 22 Megawatts (MW) and located in major sugar
producing regions, could use the entire incremental bagasse surplus during the crushing season,
relying on coal during the off-season. Further decentralization of bagasse energy production would
be inconsistent with the expected fiuther concentration of the sugar industry.
B. The Power Sector - Supply, Demand, and Expansion Plan
2.8     Mauritius has limited renewable energy resources and no known oil, gas, or coal reserves.
The country's main indigenous energy resources are hydropower and sugar crop fiber residues
(bagasse and cane residue). Hydropower is now almost fully developed and in 1990 accounted for 22
percent of the public power supply. As reviewed above, the dominant share of sugar biomass,
notably bagasse, is used inefficiently by the sugar factories to meet their internal power requirements.
The power generated by sugar factories from bagasse and transmitted to CEB accounted for 13
percent of the public power supply in 1990. The balance--65 percent-was met from imported fossil
fuels (diesel, coal, and gas). A rapid increase in this share could be prevented by a successful
program to make sugar biomass available for electricity production.
2.9     CEB operates nine hydropower plants with a combined capacity of 6OMW, of which 1OMW
provide all year (firm) power. In addition, CEB operates four diesel-fired power plants totaling a
capacity of 158MW, and a gas turbine station of 23MW. Three sugar companies have an installed
capacity of 37MW, of which 22 MW at the Flacq United Estates Limited Sugar Factory is firm
power provided to CEB all year, the remainder seasonal. Twelve other sugar factories supply
electricity to CEB intermittently. The firm capacity of the power sector at the beginning of 1991 was
121MW.
2.10    Energy consumption in Mauritius has risen sharply with recent high levels of economic
growth, the rapid expansion of activity in the Export Processing Zone and the hotel sector, and
residential power demand rising with the marked increases in sales of consumer household appliances.
Between 1985 and 1990 the annual increases in electricity consumption and maximum demand
averaged over 11 and 9.5 percent, respectively, compared with an overall annual growth rate in the



- t0-
economy of 6 percent, and wfit growth in the Export Processing Zone sectors and tourism
considerably higher. These growth rates for power consumption far exceeded the rates projected in
1986 under the demand study underpinning the Least Cost Expansion Plan. 2/ Hence, on the basis
of actual growth in consumption, the Ministry of Energy revised its forecast in 1988 to 10 percent per
year for 1988 to 1992. A/
2.11    To plan BEDP for 1992 to 1997, the Government adopted average annual growth rates that
are more conservative than the actual growth rates of 1985 to 1990 and the Ministry of Energy's
revised forecasts under the 1988 to 1992 investment program. Specifically, average rates of 9.6
percent for energy consumption and 8 percent for maximum demand were adopted. These growth
rate assumptions are largely consistent with the expectation that the whole economy will grow in the
medium term at about 5 percent a year and the Export Processing Zone sectors at rates above that
level. The figure could be higher if the Government were to integrate the non-Export Processing
Zone and Export Processing Zone sectors of the economy.
2.12    The immediate next phase of the expansion plan for power production involves CEB's
second gas turbine plant (23MW) in 1991, and two 24MW diesel plants on order for installation in
1992 and 1993. This will expand firm capacity at the end of 1993 to 184MW. Over the next three
years annual peak demand is expected to increase to 209MW. This increase plus the need to ensure
reserve capacity in case of plant breakdown requires a power expansion of about 40MW in 1994-96.
Table 2.2: ENERGY DEMAND FORECAST AND POWER SUPPLY EXPANSION
REQUIREMENTS
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
DemAnd Forecast
Energy Consumption (GWh)        734      807     888      977    1074    1160    1275
Maximum Demand (M                142     154     167      181     196      209     227
Firm POwer SUgpIy
Decomnissioning (MW)                       4       4       12       4        8       16
Expansion
Capacity (MW)                   23      24       24      20       20       -       40
FuelSource                     GT        D       D      B/C     B/C         ^       C
Capacity at End Year (MW)        144     164     184      192     208     201      224
Source: CEB Annual Reports and Government Technical Committee on Bagasse Energy Development.
(Fuel Sources: GT=gas turbine, D=diesel, B=bagasse, C=coal)
21 Power Sector Demand Forecast Study, Final Report, October 1986, Government of Mauritius, Ministry of
Energy and Intemd Communications, SWECO, Stockholm. The basic d mand forecast contained average
annual growth rates of 5.7 percent for 1986 to 1991 and 4.9 percerit for 1986 to 2000.
I/ The Mauritius Energy Sector Investment Program for 1988 to 1992 (Ministry of Energy, May 1988).



2.13    This expansion requirement could be addressed through three investnent options. First,
CEB could add two 24MW diesel plants to complete its string of six diesel plants at Fort Victoria, for
which the common infrastructural work has already been completed. Second, CEB could establishl a
40 to 50MW coal plant. Third, CEB could arrange for bulk purchasing of power from two 22MW
bagasse and coal plants, which privately operated sugar companies would establish at two regional
suQgpr mills, thereby displacing equivalent public sector investment. The economically preferred
option is bagasse and coal (Annex 11, Section C). In case this alternative would not .naterialize, the
diesel plant alternative would be preferred to the coal plant, largely because of sunk costs in
infrastructure.
2.14    By 1997, CEB proposes to commission a 40MW coal plant to meet expected expansion in
demand and replace current capacity scheduled to go out of operation at that time. Subject to the
availability of surplus bagasse or other sugar biomass, a third bagasse and coal fired power plant, or
expansion of existing ones, could either be introduced in 1997-postponing the coal plant by one
year-or be planned to follow in the next slot (1998/99) of the expansion plan.
C. Program Objectives and Investments
Objectives and Strategies
2.15    The Bagasse Energy Development Program was formulated during six months in 1991
through a successful dialogue among Government ministries and agencies and the sugar industry. The
Government formally approved the program in August 1991, based on a report of the High Powered
Committee on Bagasse Energy Development. 2/ The Program, as adopted by the Government and
the private sector, has two main objectives. First, it seeks to optimize the use of bagasse for
electricity production by the year 2000, given the physical limit on bagasse availability imposed by
the size of the sugar crop. Second, it proposes to identify economic uses of sugar biomass other than
bagasse--such as cane residue--for power production so as to expand the long-term contribution by the
sugar sector to the nation's power supply. This could further reduce the dependence on imported
fossil fuel and help contain overall air pollution caused by emissions from the power sector.
2.16    The strategy to maximize the use of tagasse focuses on establishing an institutional
framework and sectoral policies (Section D) to encourage the private sector to invest in:
(a) the establishment of new bagasse-and-coal fired power stations, at larger sugar factories,
strategically placed in the main sugar producing regions to reap the maximum benefits
of cogeneration, 10/ and to minimize costs for bagasse-and-coal transport and power
transmission (including losses); and
2/ The Committee, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Natural Resources, included
as members the Ministers for Energy, Economic Planning and Development, Environment and Land
Use, and Cooperatives, and the Financial Secretary. It guided the work of a Technical Committee,
chaired by the Financial Secretry, with representation from relevant Govermment ministries and
agencies, the sugar industry, and local research organizations.
10/ Cogeneration benefits occur when sugar factories and power plants employ a boiler/turboalternator
technology which allows them to use all the steam generated from bagasse for electricity production
before extracting some of the steam for milling and sugar manufacturing sections of the sugar plant.



- 12 -
(b) the modernization of sugar factories--designed to increase efficiency in generation and
use of power for sugar processing--thereby freeing up the incremental bagasse surplus
(para. 2.5) to produce power for the national grid.
2.17    Complementary elements of this strategy are to: (a) establish incentives, through the pricing
of fuels, for power producers to substitute bagasse for fossil fuels, and to burn bagasse efficiently
(paras. 2.28-2.34); (b) promote efficient markets for bagasse by allowing the price of bagasse to be
determined by supply and demand (para. 2.33); and (c) develop handling and transport technologies -
through industry trials-to increase the economic accessibility of bagasse to power producers (para.
2.24).
2.1?    The strategy in respect to the second program objective, that is to further develop biomass
energy for the sugar sector, calls for the implementation of a program of trials and experiments at the
sugar estate or factory level (para. 2.23). This program would address issues related to harvesting
and transport of cane and its parts, environmental aspects, storage, boiler design, and fuel-mix
configuration. The results would help the industry draw up plans for investments in expanded
biomass energy development.
D. Investments in Power Production and Bagasse Saving
2.19    The proposed BEDP investment program which is designed to help maximize the use of
bagasse is summarized in Annex 4, with technical details in Annex S. It encompasses capital
expenditures in the order of $80 million (in 1991 prices) in 1992 to 1998, covering investments in:
(a) bagasse-and-coal fired power plants at two sugar factories; (b) modernization of sugar mills to
increase the efficiency of bagasse used in producing steam for the sugar production process; (c)
vehicles and equipment to transport bagasse to power-producing mills; and (d) investments in
transmission lines from sugar factories to the national grid.
2.20    The investment program is based on a strategy to promote regional bagasse-and-coal fired
power plants. The variability in sugar crop volume and the need for power producers to guarantee
power delivery to CEB at set levels justify a dual fuel system. The incremental costs associated with
such a system are marginal, whether bagasse is combined with coal or diesel. The choice of coal as a
complementary fuel, rather than diesel, is dictated by the cost-effectiveness of coal. Regionalizing,
rather than concentrating, power production is preferable because: (a) bagasse costs are minimized;
(b) power producers are able to capture the benefits of cogeneration; (c) the potential impact of
damage on a key infrastructural investment is reduced; and (d) the activities of several large sugar
estates in main sugar growing regions are diversified, thereby contributing to the maintenance of
social stability in the sector (details in Annex 11, Section D).
E. Technology and Staff Development
2.21    BEDP emphasizes the development and adaptation of technologies for efficient handling and
transport of bagasse during the season, the use of cane residue as fuel for energy production, and
support through training for the development of the necessary technical skills to manage, operate, and
maintain the bagasse energy infrastructure. BEDP does not explicitly address the development of
technologies for handling, baling, and storing bagasse for use by power plants in the off-season,
because the available bagasse can be fully used during the crop season, and technical problems remain



- 13-
-such as loss of calorific value of the bagasse and the risk of its spontaneous combustion. However,
the viability of the proposed investment program could be further strengthened by future local
adaptation and application of technologies to these areas.
Sugar Biomass Energy Technology il/
2.22    Bagasse represents only a fraction of the total sugar biomass. The green, immBture cane
top and leaves, and the dead and dry leaves, together have an energy value almost equivalent to that
of bagasse. At present the cane tops and leaves are removed from the millable cane at harvest and
left in the field with the trash, except for a small portion tha. is used for cattle feed. Left in the field,
cane residue serve as a fertilizer and a weed and soil erosion suppressor, and helps to preserve soil
moisture. The commercial exploitation of cane residue for power production has to first resolve
issues related to the barvesting and transport, environmental aspects, storage, boiler design, fuel mix
and so on. Research in these areas is going on in several countries under the Biomass Energy
Systems and Technology Project, sponsored by the United States Agency for International
Development.
2.23    Building on results from such research, a program of trials and experiments in the use of
cane residue for power production in Mauritius has been proposed by the Mauritius Sugar Authority
in collaboration with the sugar industry, the University of Mauritius, and the Mauritius Sugar
Industry Research Institute. The specific objectives of the proposed Biomass Energy Technology
Study are to evaluate: (a) the available cane residue resource base for a variety of field conditions;
(b) the productivity of the residue recovery systems, separately and with whole cane, and the
comparative economics of baling and transport of residue separately as against integrated with
millable cane; (c) the handling systems required at the factory for preparation of the residue and its
use in a boiler; (d) the agronomic effect of removing the residue from the fields; and (e) the effect of
different residues used in the mill on the sucrose and energy balance. The results are expected to
provide a base for planning a second generation of investments in sugar biomass energy development
beyond the year 2000.
Bagasse Transport Technology 12/
2.24    Of the bagasse surplus presently used for power production, only a small part (about 10
percent) is imported by power producers from other factories. Bagasse is handled either in loose
form or in bales using simple baling presses. Transport arrangements typically involve improvised
closed bins loaded on a trailer hauled by tractor. If the incremental bagasse surplus were to be
effectively made available for power production, surplus bagasse would need to be moved from mills
to regional power plants. Given the present milling infrastructure and proposed power plant
investments, about 70 percent of the total bagasse surplus--about 220,000 tons--would have to be
imported by power plants at full development over a five-month period every year. Bagasse is a
bulky commodity and the roads connecting sugar factories are narrow and often traverse hilly terrain.
Bagasse transport has to be done cost-effectively and with minimum adverse impact on other road
activities. The industry thus plans an experimental Bagasse Transport Technology Study to test
bagasse transport and compaeting equipment and transport operations which will minimize capital
AI/ Details in Annex 10, Part A.
12/ Details in Annex 10, Pait B.



-14-
costs, increase the load per trip, and use the roads--whenever possible--during slack traffic times
(details in Annex 10, Part B).
Training fl/
2.25    The expanded use of bagasse for power production will be accompanied by the introduction
of more-sophisticated technology for steam generation at sugar factories. A key feature of such
technology is the use of boilers with pressures of 60 bar and above, pressures significantly higher
than those now used in Mauritius. Successful implementation of BEDP therefore depends on the
development of the necessary skills in power plant operations, involving management, production
managers, engineers, chemists, boiler operators, and technicians in various disciplines. A training
scheme applicable to a single power station, involving overseas study visits and short-term training
courses, has been proposed by the sugar industry.
F. Costs and Financing
2.26    The envisaged investments for bagasse energy development are expected to average
$10 million to $15 million per year for eight years. Funding to meet these expenditures is expected
to come from: (a) international donor agencies through the Government or directly to the companies,
some in the form of suppliers' credits; (b) grant funds from international sources; (c) local financial
Institutions; (d) owners' capacity; and (e) stock offerings on the Mauritius Stock Exchange. Terms
and conditions for such financing and the final cost to each borrower will vary with the source of
funds.
G. Regulatory Framework and Institutional Arrangements For Program Implementation
2.27    The investment program as presented above will be supported by a regulatory framework
designed to promote private sector investments in power production an(i m:!l modernization, and to
encourage an efficient market in bagasse. The key elements of this framework are energy pricing and
contracting, involving electricity, bagasse, and coal. Proposed institutional implementation
arrangements address the integration of policies and programs for bagasse energy development with
the Government's overal energy production strategy, and program management, coordination,
monitoring, and evaluation.
Pricdng Policy
2.28    CEB's Power Purchase Price. The inadequacy of CEB's power purchase policy, including
pricing, has been a major factor in preventing economically rational use of the country's energy
resources. The price presently being paid to Flacq United Estates Limited Sugar Factory for bagasse-
based electricity averages MRs 0.92/kwh. A tax of MRs. 0.23/kwh is levied on that sale price (para.
2.31) of which the power producer receives back MRs. 0.07/kwh, thereby effectively allowing the
producer a net price of MRs. 0.76/kwh. For coal-based electricity, CEB provides coal free of charge
to the Flacq United Estates Limited Sugar Factory and reimburses it for the estimated costs of
converting coal to electricity, based on a standard for coal-burning efficiency. This pricing system
IW/     Details in Anuex 10, Part C.



-15-
for coal-based power fails to adequately reward the power producer for being efficient and removes
f*om the producer's direct control the procurement of part of its fuel supply. For bagasse and for
coal-based power, CEB's purchase price is below its long-term marginal cost of operating its own
power plant (Annex 6). Hence, CEB has forgone the opportunity to purchase additional power from
the private sector and displace costlier investments in equivalent diesel-generating capacity at its own
power station.
2.29    In adopting BEDP, however, the Government has accepted the principle that CEB should
purchase power at a price equal to the costs CEB is avoiding by not generating the power on Its own;
pricing is to be based on "avoided cost." This price should apply regardless of the power producer's
fuel source. CEB's marginal plant for calculation of avoided cost is presently a two-stroke 24MW
diesel plant using high-sulphur fuel oil, and its economic avoided cost (constant 1991 prices) is
MRs. 1.18/kwh (USc 7.6/kwh) assuming a long-term diesel price of $22.3 per barrel. In financial
terms, the avoided cost rises to MRs. 1.50/kwh (JSc 9.7/kwh) because of the heavy taxation on
diesel oil, involving import duty plus markup by the State Trading Corporation (details in Annex 6).
2.30    The actual price paid to power producers should be in the range determined by the
economic and financial cost. A price above the economic avoided cost but well within the financial
avoided cost is required to ensure the financial viability of the proposed investments (para. 4.4). The
price would be adjusted annually to take into account Inflation in CEB's power station operating costs
and changes in forecasted fossil fuel oil prices. These principles have been adopted by the
Government and the industry as part of the BEDP policy umbrella, and would be reflected in the
power purchase agreement between CEB and the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory (para. 2.35).
2.31    The Bagasse Transfer Price. The Government in 1985 instituted a price of MRslOO/ton of
bagasse to be paid to planters for bagasse used to produce electricity sold to CEB. The price was to
represent a guaranteed transfer to planters of beneflts foreseen to flow from the use of bagasse as an
energy source. In practice, the bagasse transfer price has been paid by CEB, on top of the electricity
price, to the sugar industry, to be shared between planters and miller-planters. These bagasse transfer
price payments, determined on the basis of the total amount of bagasse-based electricity purchased
and valued at the kilowatt-hour equivalent of MRslOO/ton of bagasse, have served as a "tax" at source
on the sugar industry's sale of electricity. Electricity producers have, in effect, been taxed with
revenues used to subsidize sugar growers. 14/ This taxation, as demonstrated by the Joint United
Nations Development Program/World Bank Energy Assessment study of 1987, has discouraged the
sugar industry from investing in expanded bagasse energy development.
2.32    Under the policy agenda of the Bank-financed Sugar Industry Project (para. 1.20), the
Government has decided to effectively reduce the net sales tax imposed on power producers through
the bagasse transfer price system. While the planter sector will continue to be guaranteed its share of
the bagasse transfer price, presently 40 percent, the balance earlier distributed to the entire miller-
planter sector will now accrue solely to sugar mills that sell electricity to CEB. But implementation
J14 The bagassm transfer price payments have been returned via the Mauritius Sugar Syndicate to planters and
miller-plantes proportionally to their respective shares in overall sugar sales. Hence, planters have
received about 40 percent and miller-planters 60 percent of the total bagasse transfer price whether they
have propduced electricity for the grid or not.



- 16-
of the revised policy has not yet begun. This policy also needs to be integrated with the policy for
prlcing CEB's electricity purchases. Specifically, the avoided-cost-based price should be paid to the
power producer in two components: one being the power producer's share in bagasse transfer price
(to be paid by CElB through the Mauritius Sugar Syndicate) and the other being the avoided-cost-
based price less the bagasse transfer price (to be paid out under CEB's contract with power
producers). During negotiations, the assurance was obtained from the Government that: (a)
implementation of the revised bagasse transfer price system as per agreement under the Sugar
Industry Project will start on July 1, 1992; and (b) the revised system will be integrated with the
policy on pricing of CEB's electricity purchases in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.33    Pricing of Bagasse. To attract bagasse surpluses, power plants will have to offer prices at
levels high enough to cover the costs of bagasse handling and transport from exporter to importer, or
the net return to the exporter from the alternative use of bagasse to produce intermittent power. T he
Government and the industry have agreed that prices on the bagasse market will be left unregulated,
to be determined through negotiations between buyers and sellers.
2.34    Pricing of Coal. in principle, the power producer should be free to procure coal
indepen-fently. If CEB wishes to sell coal to local power producers, these transactions should be
strictly on a commercial basis through separate contractual arrangements. While CEB's role as a fuel
supplier would be distinct from that as a buyer of electricity it would recoup its expenses for
procuring and delivering coal to local power producers out of the monthly gross payments from
electricity sales that are due the power producers. This system would replace the current system in
which CEB bears all cosis for coal up to the local power plant and in effect pays the sugar factory a
commission for converting the coal to electricity. The above principles have been agreed to by the
Government and the industry as part of the BEDP policy umbrella. The CEB and the management of
Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory have concluded a draft agreement governing the purchase of coal,
satisfactory to the Bank. A cond..0on of IBRD loan and GET grant effectiveness would be a
commercial contract between the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory and CEB for the purchase of coal on
terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracting for Energy
2.35    The enabling legislation for CEB provides for electricity purchase from independent parties.
CEB has already entered into contracts to purchase power from three sugar companies. In an attempt
to structure such contracts in the best interest of the public utility and the power producer, the
Ministry of Energy/CEB and sugar industry representatives have been discussing appropriate
contractual provisions for CEB's purchasing electricity from sugar factories. Key provisions, other
than those related to electricity pricing involve: (a) detailed specifications regarding peak MW supply,
hours of supply, and terms and conditions for synchronizing power supply with the CEB grid; and (b)
penalties for violation of contract terms. The CEB and the management of the Union St. Aubin Sugar
Factory have concluded a draft agreement governing the sale of electricity, satisfactory to the Bank.
The execution of such a contract, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of IBRD loan and
GET grant effectiveness.
Program Management and Coordination
2.36    MTe Government has adopted an organizational framework for bringing public and private
sector representatives together to coordinate the implementation of the Program (details in



-17-
Annex 7). It has established a BEDP Management Committee-with representation from the
Goverment and the industry-to undertake further detailed planning of program implementation,
ensure that the Government's policy directives related to BEDP are followed, and effectively Integrate
Government's policies affecting the sugar and energy sectors. The Committee is chaired by the
Financial Secretary and reports to the Minister of the Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources.
Based on evaluation of progress in BEDP implementation, the Management Committee will
occasionally ne*d to review and revise policies and, as appropriate through the Minister, Agriculture,
Fisheries and Natural Resources, seek the approval of the Economic Subcommittee of the Cabinet.
2.37    The Management Committee would be responsible for: (a) planning and monitoring the
implementation of BEDP and its project components, and assessing policies and advising on policy
revisions; (b) managing the Technology and Staff Development component of BEDP; (c) providing
technical support for appraisal of investment subprojects; (d) assisting CEB and individual power
producers on matters related to energy contracting; (e) disseminating information and organizing the
exchange of experiences related to BEDP implementation; and (f) taking part in negotiations with
international lending institutions about the use of funds in support of BEDP. Under the proposed
project, the Mauritius Sugar Authority would be strengthening its organization and staff resources to
enable it to effectively serve the Management Committee in the above functions. This would include
the establishment of a BEDP Coordination Unit, including an Environmental Monitoring Cell.
i. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Salient Features
3.1    The project is designed to help the Government and the private sector  aunch BEDP, with
proposed Bank financing of a first time-slice of BEDP as outlined in the previous chapter. The
objectives and salient features of the project, to be implemented over a five-year period, are as
follows:
(a) Expand electricity generation using bagasse from 70 Gwhs to 120 Gwhs--an increase about
70 percent over the current level-through investments in:
* a 22 MW bagasse-and-coal fired power plant at the private sector-operated Union St.
Aubin Sugar Factory, in the southern region of Mauritius;
* bagasse transport; and
* improved efficiency in steam generation and use at sugar factories that save bagasse for
power production.
(b) Promote efficient use of biomass fuels from the sugar industry for energy production
through:
* development, trials, and local adaptation of technologies for bagasse transport;
* support for trials and experiments leading to possible future use of cane residue as fuel
for power generation; and



-18-
* the training of technical personnel in bagasse and coal power plant operations.
(c) Strengthen the management and coordination of the Bagasse Energy Development Program,
by:
* fostering collaboration between the public sector and the sugar industry; and
* providing technical assistance and training to the Mauritius Sugar Authority and the
Central Electricity Board, and establishing an environmental monitoring system covering
the sugar industry.
B. Components
3.2     Chapter II outlined the scope and nature of the activities to be undertaken to make optimal
use of bagasse for electricity production. Project components for these activities are summarized
below.
Power Plant Investment ($23.9 million) 1S
3.3     BEDP has established that the first new bagasse and coal power plant will be constructed at
Union St Aubin. This sugar factory is designed to crush 110 tons of cane per day and has in recent
years produced an average of 32,000 tons of sugar a year (from an average cane crop of 295,000
tons), tquivalent to about 5 percent of total sugar production in Mauritius. The Union St. Aubin
Sugar Factory is the logical site for a regional bagasse-and-coal plant because of the sizable quantity
of its own production of bagasse, the recently completed factory modernization program involving
electrification of the mill, its location relative to other mills in the region, its proximity to CEB's
main transmission line, and the favorable water supply conditions on site. The management of the
Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory has completed a pre-feasibility study for a 22MW plant aiming at
producing 135 GVhs per year, of which 111 GWhs would be exported to the national grid, leaving
the balance of 24 GWhs to be consumed in-house or in transmission losses. At full development the
plant would use about 150,000 tons of bagasse and 36,000 tons of coal per year.
3.4     The present power plant at the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory, berving the needs of the
factory, consists of a 4 MW turbine and a 70 ton medium-pressure (30-bar) boiler. Under the project
this power unit would be replaced by: (a) a spreader/stoker boiler with a capacity of 110 tons of
steam per hour at a pressure of 68 bar at 520 degrees Celsius, capable of burning bagasse as well as
coal; and (b) a passoutlcondensing turbo-alternator set--with a capacity of 22MW at the level of steam
pressure indicated above-consisting of a multi-stage turbine complete with regulating and control
equipment. The contract for the boiler would include a chimney, accessories, and bagasse and coal
and ash handling sections. The turbo-alternator contract would include electrical equipment and a
turbine-house crane. The new power plant would be constructed on land next to the present power
unit. Construction of the foundation and the housing structure for the new imit would be done
through a separatP civil works contract. Once operating at full capacity the new power station, is
expected to depend on 77,000 tons of "imported" bagasse. The project would provide for transport
equipment to haul excess bagasse from sugar mills to the power plant.
Al! Cost figures refer to baseline costs.



-19-
3.5     The project would also provide for the interconnecting arrangements for delivery of power
to CEB's grid. A 2 kilometer transmission line will be constructed, along with a substation located
north of Union St. Aubin. The C13B Is presently completing the construction of a new 66 kilovolt
transmission line connecting the proposed substation with the main circular transmission system
operated by CEB. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that CEB would be responsible for
operating and maintaining the power substation required to connect the proposed power plant at the
Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory to CEB's main transmission system.
3.6     Investments in the bagasse and coal fired power plants are the centerpiece of BEDP.
Safeguarding the success of BEDP and, particularly, the project, requires ensuring the technical,
financial, and economic viability of the proposed power plant investment and its timeliness for the
national program for energy capacity expansion. Therefore, the management of the Union St. Aubin
Sugar Factory has jointly with the BEDP Management Committee expeditiously completed recruiting
qualified consultants acceptable to the Bank to conduct the feasibility study for the proposed
investment on terms of reference that are satisfactory to the Bank. Also, a condition of effectiveness
for the proposed IBRD loan and the GET grant would be that the Government submit the necessary
documentation demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (a) the proposed investment-on the
basis of the feasibility study and the final technical specifications and cost estimates-is technically,
financially, economically, and environmentally viable; and (b) that a complete financing package for
the investment has been secured.
Investments in Mill Efficiency ($18.1 million)
3.7     The successful operation of the proposed Union St. Aubin power plant as well as the
realization of the overall BEDP goal of increased power production from bagasse depends on sugar
mills undertaking the necessary investments to free up the "incremental bagasse surplus." These
investments are designed to improve the efficiency of the sugar operations with respect to steam
generation (boiler efficiency) or steam use. The investments would improve the turbo-generator or
permit reductions in process steam requirements. Sugar mills typically decide on such improvements
as part of their overall investment decisions on mill modernization. Thus, replacement of equipment
for sugar manufacture triggers to a considerable degree the process of improving steam efficiency.
3.8     The sugar industry's five-year investment program (para. 1.16) projects investments in
modernization of sugar-and bagasse-handling operations at $80 million (1991 prices). About one-
fourth of these investments-or $20 million, is expected to affect the efficiency of steam generation
and use and, thus, the release of the irncremental bagasse surplus. i6/ On the assumption that
about 90 percent of these projected investments will materialize, the project provides for sugar
industry investments in "bagasse-saving" mill modernization or rehabilitation activities during 1992 to
1996 totaling $18.1 million (1991 prices), or $23.1 million, including price contingencies. These
investments are expected to be made by about 12 sugar mills, with initial emphasis on six of the
major sugar mills located in the natural bagasse catchment area of Union St. Aubin's power plant and
near the existing bagasse and coal plant at the Flacq United Estates Limited Sugar Factory. The
investments are expected to cover improvements or replacements to steam generating units, turbo-
generator sets, bagasse handling systems, bagasse drying equipment, juice heaters, vacuum pans, mill
electriflcation, and evaporators and vapor bleeding.
16/ Government of Mauritius, High-Powered-Committee Report on Bagasse Energy Development,
August 1991.



-20 -
3.9     The foreign exchange component (cost, insurance and fieight) of the above investments is
estimated to be 65 percent. The IBRD) loan would provide the foreign exchange ($15.0 million) to be
used over five-year period for the importation by mill owners of machinery and equipment that would
meet criteria for eligibility of import financing under the proposed IBRD loan. A list of eligible items
for financing, shown in Anmex 14, was agreed to during negotiations. The investment decisions
would continue to be made by mill owners who would be responsible for arranging local currency
financing of the investments.
3.10    The above arrangements for use of IBRI) funds were successfully implemented with respect
to the mill investment component under the Sugar Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS). This
meihanism was chosen, rather than Government onlending to local credit institutions, mainly for two
reasons. First, the financial management practices of the private sector within the industry are
efficient, leaving little doubt that mill owners will base investment decisions on sound financial
criteria. And second, the objective of fostering a positive environment for private sector development
is best served by holding outside involvement, guidance, and possibly interference in investment
decisions, to a minimum. As part of the second semiannual progress report (para. 3.47) an annual
review of the economic and financial viability of the mill improvement investments will be undertaken
by the Management Committee of the BEDP according to a format to be agreed under the first
Annual Work Program, and reviewed by the Bank, in the context of: (a) the adequate implementation
of the energy pricing contract with the CEB (para. 2.28); (b) the agreed bagasse pricing arrangements
(para. 2.33); and (c) developments in the financial sector. At the time of the review a determination
will be made as to any changes necessary in accessing these funds to ensure their proper application
to viable investments. These arrangements were agreed4 during negotiations.
Technology and Staff Development ($1.6 million)
3.11    Technology Studies ($1.3 million). The project would provide the resources required to
implement the two technology studies, that is, the Biomass Energy Techuology Study and the Bagasse
Transport Technology Study as described earlier (paras. 2.22-2.24). Both studies are critical to the
successful implementation of BEDP; the Bagasse Transport Technology Study, by generating cost-
effective solutions to the bagasse transport problem, and the Biomass Energy Technology Study, by
identifying viable investment opportunities for use of cane residues other than bagasse for electricity
production. Thus, these studies should be initiated at the outset of BEDP.
3.12    The implementation and findings of the Biomass Energy Technology Study are of
international interest. Many developing countries are intensifying efforts to reduce their dependence
on imported fossil fuels by seeking access to indigenous renewable fuel sources such as cane residues.
Following recent experimental work in the Dominican Republic, Hawaii, Puerto Rico and Thailand,
on the use of cane residue for power production, the proposed Mauritian study will be the main
experimental work to get underway over the medium term. Thus, before the Bagasse Energy
Technology Study is launched, the :Aauritian study team would visit the above countries to finetune
the proposed study work program and establish suitable arrangements fot applied research
collaboration in sugar biomass energy development. Furthermore, an international workshop would
be held in Mauritius in early 1994 to review the result of the Bagasse Energy Technology Study with
international research collaborators and other interested parties. This workshop would serve two
purposes. First, it would broaden participation in the interpretation of the study results. This would
be of value to the Mauritian industry facing decisions about possible commercial application of the
study outcome. Second, the workshop would be an effective way of disseminating the study results to
the international sugar and cane power community.



-21 -
3.13    The project would provide GET funds for the equipment needed for the two studies,
including compactors and tractors for the Bagasse Transport Technology Study, and tractors, balers,
conveyors, blowers, shredders, and rakes for the Bagasse Energy Technology Study. Civil and
mechanical works, laboratory expenses, consultant services, and travel and subsistence and
expenditures for the international workshop would also be provided for. The fumding by GET of the
above technical studies and the training program discussed below, is justified on the basis of the
potential global benefits associated with the identification of expanded possibilities for producing
electricity from sugar cane residues.
3.14    Training of Power Plant Personnel ($0.2 million). The technical skills for power plant
operations required under the project would be significantly higher than those required at any one
power unit in the Mauritian sugar industry. This follows primarily from the higher degree of
sophistication and pressure of the proposed boiler unit. Thus, the project would provide for training
of power plant staff in skills necessary to support the bagasse energy infrastructure. A total of 32
person-months of training would be provided for managers, engineers, chemists, fitters, welders,
electricians, and boiler and turbo-alternator operators from the Union St. Aubin Sugar power plant.
The training program would involve visits to and hands-on training at select sugar and power stations
in Reunion, France, and Hawaii, and elsewhere which have applicable experience in cogeneration
technology of the standard envisaged under the project. It would also involve sl1ort-term technical
courses for welders, fitters, and electricians at suitable overseas training institutes (details in Annex
10, Part C).
Institutional Support for BEDP ($1.3 million)
3.15    BEDP Coordination Unit and Environmental Monitoring ($1.0 million). The project is
designed to help the Government launch BEDP and therefore provides support for management and
coordination of BEDP implementation. This support would aim at strengthening the Mauritius Sugar
Authority's role as the Secretariat of the BEDP Management Committee. It would involve consultant
services, administrative services, and logistics support (office equipment and vehicles) and training in
support of the establishment and operations of a BEDP Coordination Unit including an Environmental
Momitoring Cell in the Mauritius Sugar Authority. The BEDP Coordination Unit would assist the
Management Committee in its responsibilities described above (para. 2.37). The Environmental
Monitoring Cell would be responsible for overseeing the project's environmental mitigation plan and
air quality monitoring related to emissions from sugar factories. The organizational, staffing, and
programming arrangements for these two units are reviewed below (paras. 3.42-3.48).
3.17    Under the project's technical assistance arrangements, a suitably qualified long-term
consultant (Mauritian or expatriate) would be employed as Head of the BEDP Coordination Unit.
The assignment would be for the duration of the project--53 months. A suitably qualified local
consultant would be employed as the Head of the Environmental Monitoring Cell for 42 months. The
project would arrange for suitable short-term training courses for two environmental monitoring
technicians in monitoring techniques, particularly for monitoring air emissions. Furthermore, the
project would provide for administrative support services, two vehicles, and office equipment for the
BEDP Coordination Unit, and monitoring equipment and supplies for the environmental monitoring
program.
3.18    Support to the Central Electricity Board (US$0.3 million). Under the project, CEB
would embark on an expanded program for contracting with independent power producers of
electricity. It is also anticipated that CEB will continue to enter into contractual agreements with such



-22 -
producers for the supply of coal. To facilitate efficient implementation of such contractual
arrangements, it is necessary that the technical skills of CEB's staff in boiler management and coal
handling and quality analysis be strengthened. The project would therefore provide for six staff-
months of overseas training or study visits in each of these areas. It would also provide for the
extension of CEI3's proposed laboratory for fuel quality analysis to enable the laboratory to
adequately meet the requirements for such analysis in respect to coal.
3.19    01F funding of the above institutional support activities is justified based on the direct and
indirect capture of global benefits that provision of BEDP management services will enable. First,
the BEDP Coordination Unit would manage the Biomass Energy Technology and Bagasse Transport
Trechnology studies. These research and development activities are of a nonproprietary nature,
designed to maximize the substitution of low carbon emission bio-fuels for higher carbon fossil
alternatives. Second, the Unit would perform a third-party broker function to facilitate conclusion of
power sales agreements between private bagasse cogenerators and CEB as well as constructive
collaboration between the parties. Experience suggests that it is unreasonable and inefficient to expect
such facilitation to be fnanced by the parties to the negotiation. The lack of an effective vehicle to
vouchsafe ongoing consultation between the public and private sectors on issues of planning, pricing
and contractual arrangements is the major barrier to the expanded generation of electricity from crop
residues in the sugar sector throughout the world. Lastly, by serving as a focal point for the
gathering and sharing of bagasse utilization techniques, the BEDP Coordination Unit would assist in
monitoring, evaluation and reporting of project performance and promote the international
dissemination of the Mauritian experience. This role is central to achieving the global replication
aims of the GEF.
C. Costs and Financing
3.20    The total cost of the project is estimated at $55.1 million, of which $40.5 million, or about
73 percent, would be foreign exchange (including physical and price contingencies). Duties and taxes
make up an estimated $2.0 million of the total project cost. The estimated costs of the individual
project components are summarized below (Table 3.1) with details in Annex 8. Baseline costs refer
to August 1991. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to all cost items. Price
contingencies, equivalent to 10 percent of the baseline costs, reflect projected local and international
inflation rates and a continuous adjustment of the exchange rate in line with maintaining a constant
purchasing parity exchange rate (Annex 8, Table 4).



-23 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SuNuY  '
Rs. M                        US$ M
Cotponmit                                    Local      Foroegn   Total    Local    Foreign    Total
A. Establishment of Power Plant
Ernineering Services                                 23.6     23.6        -        1.5      1.5
Construction of Power Plants               72.0    267.8    339.8       4.6       17.3     21.9
Bagasse Transport                           0.4       7.4      7.7      0.0        0.5      0.5
Subtotal                                      72-7         r9:   37T72  -r-7       9"       3".
S. 1aproveent in Mill Efficiency              98.3    182.6    280.9        6.3      11.8     18.1
C. Technology & Staff Dev.
Ragasse Transport & Tech. Dev.              0.7       1.2      1.9      0.1        0.1      0.1
Biomass Energy Tech. Dev.                   7.4      11.5     18.9      0.5        0.7      1.2
Training Prog. for Power Plant Oper.                  3.6      3.6                 0.2      0.2
Subtotat                                      "8i2    179:i    -24.4        0.5       T.0      1.6
D. BEOP Program Kanagement
BEDP Coordination & Env. Monitoring         2.1      12.8     14.9      0.1        0.8      1.0
Inst. Support to CEB                       _j_1      3.4      .e6      0.1        QL2      0.3
SubtotaL                                       3.3      16.2     19.5       0.2       1.1      1.3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                         182.1    513.8    695.9       11.7      33.1     44.9
Physical Contingencies                      18.2      50.4     68.6       1.2       3.2      4.4
Price Contingencies                         62.4    160.9    223.3        1.7       4.1      5.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          262.8    725.1    987.9       14.6      40.5     55.1
q/ Figures may not add up exectly because of rounding.
Finandng
3.21      The financing plan by project component is summarized below.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
($ nillion)
IBRD        GET        Other Foreign        Local '       Total
Components                                                                   Sources           Sources
Establishment of Power Plant                           -                        23.1               5.6           28.7
Improvement in MiMl Efficiency                      15.0                            -              8.1           23.1
Tecbnology and Staff Development                       -        1.9                                   -           1.9
BEDP Coordination & Env. Monitoring                    -        1.4                                   -           1.4
TOTAL                                               15.0        3.3             23.1              13.7           55.1
1 Includes local financing institutions, industry, and Govemment.



-24 -
3.22    The proposed IBRD loan of $15.0 million would amount to 27 percent of total project costs
and 65 percent of the cost of the sugar mill investment component, equal to the foreign exchange
costs of the component. Tle Government would make the $15 million available to the Bank of
Mauritius, which would sell the foreign exchange to sugar companies requiring foreign currency to
import sugar equipment and machinery. The foreign exchange facility would be drawn down over
five years on the basis of applications for foreign exchange, eligible according to an agreed-upon list
(para. 3.9). The sugar companies would be responsible for raising the local currency required to buy
the foreign exchange and for meeting the local costs of installing the equipment. Any such
commercial local currency loans would be made at positive real interest rates prevailing for sugar mill
modernizations. The proposed loan funds are not expected to add any distortions to the financial
system. The Bank's ongoing sector work and policy dialogue with the Government on the financial
sector will address the question of preferential rates currently prevailing in the agricultural sector.
3.23    Private sector investments under BEDP will increase the level of institutional financing
sought by the sugar sector from local credit institutions to levels well beyond recent average levels.
Ibis raises concerns about possible crowding out of viable projects in other sectors from local
financing. The Government intends to address this concern by using part of the counterpart funds to
be generated from the sale of the proceeds of the Bank loan for onlending through the commercial
banks to the sugar sector. Any such onlending would be consistent with prudent objectives for
financial sector reform, and would be on terms of interest to the final borrower which would be
positive in real terms, cover the cost of financial imtermediation including foreign exchange risk, and
reflect a reasonable return on bank capital. An assurance was obtained from the Govemment during
negotiations that detailed arrangements, based on above principles, would be included in the first
Annual Work PRogram, with further adjustments to be reflected in subsequent annual work programs,
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.24    The proposed grant of $3.3 million would be used for funding the costs, exclusive of duties
and taxes, of tie two technology studies ($1.6 million), the staff development program at the Union
St. Aubin power plant and CEB ($0.6 million), and the institutional support for the BEDP
Coordination Unit and the environmental monitoring program ($1.1 million). An assurance was
given by the Government during negotiations that the Government would pass on $3.0 million of the
GET funds as a grant to the Mauritius Sugar Authority, and $0.3 million as a grant to CEB, which
would administer them for the purposes indicated, following procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.25    The management of the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory, assisted by the Government, is
arranging for foreign financing, including suppliers' credit for the foreign exchange component of the
power plant ($23.1 million), with local costs ($5.6 million) to be met from investor contributions and
local commercial banks. The industry has successfully mobilized foreign financing in the past. The
management of the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory is confident that it will be able to secure an
attractive financing package for the proposed investment, considering that the project would be
supported by institutional and policy arrangements that will reduce the investment risk, the
environmentally positive nature of the envisaged investment, and the presence of IBRD assistance for
the management of BEDP. A financing package would be completed and secured prior to
effectiveness of the IBRD loan and the GET grant (para. 3.6).



- 2S -
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.26    Items to be financed by IBRD and dte GEF would be procured through arrangements as
summarized in Table 3.3 anid discussed below. Procurement of cofinanced items relating to the
proposed power plant investment would be arranged in accordance with the procurement procedures
and guidelines of such cofinancing institutions.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT METHODS COVERING COMPONENTS
FUNDED BY IBRD AND GET
($ million)
Category/Item                                  Procu_ment Method
ICB       LCB       Other      Total
1. Civil Works                                    .IS                  .15
[.1s]                 [.151
2. Sugar Mill                                              15.00      15.00
Machinery and                                          (15.00)    (15.00)
Equipment
3. Vehicles & Misc.                                         1.31       1.31
Equipment                                               [1.281     [1.28]
4. Consultant Services                                      1.00       1.00
11. 00]    1.00]
5. Training                                                 .82         .82
[.82]      1.821
6. Incremental Administrative Costs                         .05         .05
[.051     [.05]
TOTAL                                             .15      18.18      18.33
(IBRD Funding)                                            (15.00)    (15.00)
(GET Funding)                                    [.153     [3.15]     [3.30]
"  Figures shown in parenthesis () and brackets [lare estimated to be financed under the proposed IBRD
Loan and the GET Gmnt, respectively.
u Millers' commercial practices for category 2, shopping and limited international bidding for category 3.
(ICB = International Competitive Bidding; LCB = Local Competitive Bidding)
3.27     The values of most contracts for procurement of sugar mill machinery and equipment
eligible for financing under the Bank loan (Annex 14) are expected to be below $2 million. Items
costing more than $2.0 million would be procured through international competitive bidding using a
standard bidding document to be acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for such procurement estimated to
cost less than $2.0 million equivalent each, would be awarded on the basis of normal industrial and



-26 -
commercial practices provided that a minimum of three quotations from eligible suppliers from at
least two countries would be sought. Single-source purchase would be used only for proprietary
equipment or where compatibility with existing equipment would call for standardized equipment and
spare parts.
3.28    Ihree contracts for civil works, totaling $150,000, are small in value and spaced in time.
They would be awarded through local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and supplies (other than sugar mill equipment),
totaling $1.3 million, involves equipment for the technology studies, laboratory work, and
environmental monitoring. Since the equipment involves a large number of specialized items for
experimental work at individual small values, numerous manufacturers, and in some cases local
assembly, procurement cannot be grouped into packages for ICB. Contracts for vehicles, supplies,
and equipment, estimated to cost more than $20,000, aggregating to $0.9 million would be awarded
on the basis of limited international bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts of $20,000
or less, aggregating to $0.4 million, would be procured through shopping procedures based on at least
Stee price quotations. Two passenger cars for the BEDP Coordination Unit would be nrocured
through the U.N. rate system.
3.29    Contracts for consultants ($1.0 million) would be awarded in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the Employment and Use of Consultants. Overseas and local training ($SQ8 million)
would be by direct placement in consultation with the Bank, based on agreed-upon training programs.
Incremental administrative expenditures, involving services of secretarial and office support staff for
the BEDP Coordination Unit ($50,000) would follow local government procedures.
3.30     All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
bidding packages for goods equivalent to $50,000 or more, all contracts for appointment of
consultants, and overseas training placements would be subject to prior Bank review of procurement
documentation. This would result in a coverage of about 60 percent of total contracts outside the
sugar mill investment component. The Bank would carry out an ex-post review of all contracts for
sugar mill equipment and machinery awarded according to the simplified international competitive
bidding. Procedures and contracts for sugar mill equipment below the international competitive
bidding threshold and other contracts (not covering mill equipment) which would not require prior
Bank review would be reviewed by Bank supervision missions on a selective basis (one in ten).
Disbursements
3.31     The $15.0 million Bank loan would be disbursed as 100 percent of the foreign exchange
expenditures for imported sugar mill equipment and machinery and intermediate components for local
assembly. The $3.3 million GET grant would be disbursed as follows: (a) 100 percent of the foreign
exchange expenditures for imported equipment and vehicles, and 65 percent of local expenditures for
imported items procured locally ($1.30 million); (b) 100 percent of the total cost of civil works
($O. 15 million); (c) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services and overseas and local training
($1.80 million); and (d) 100 p.ercent of incremental administrative costs ($0.05 million).
3.32     The use of the loan to finance the sugar mill investnent program would be administered in
the same way as funds provided under the ongoing Sugar Industry Loan, with the Bank of Mauritius
responsible for submitting withdrawal applications. For the other components, disbursement requests
from all participating agencies would be submitted through the Mauritius Sugar Authority. All
disbursements against contracts for not less than $25,000 would be fully documented. For contracts



-27 -
below $25,000 disbursements would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. Such statements
would be certified by the Head of Finance Department in the Mauritius Sugar Authority, who would
confirm that these are in agreement with the ledger accounts, copies of which will accompany the
claims. The ledger accounts and supporting documentation will, however, be retained and made
available for review by the auditors and Bank supervision missions, Wherever possible, all
withdrawal applications would be combined in batches of not less than $25,000 equivalent.
3.33    An indicative schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 9. The Bank loan and the
GET grant would be disbursed over five years as compared with six years for the standard Mauritian
disbursement profile for IBRD loans and eight years for agricultural projects in Africa. The
disbursement profile takes into account the excellent disbursement performance under the ongoing
Sugar Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS); a loan whose components were structured along the same
lines as the proposed IBRD loan/GET grant, and the disbursements of which remain on target during
its sixth and final year. The project disbursement profile also considers the record of mill
modernization investments over the past few years and the indicative program of mill investments
(para. 1.16). Tbis program is considered realistic in light of the improvements in the business
environment which recently have been brought about through policy reform, including the initiatives
now launched under BEDP. The IBRID loan and the GET grant are projected to be fully disbursed by
June 30,1997.
E. Organization and Implementation
Management of Project Implementation
3.34    Project management and administration would be consistent with the overall organizational
arrangements established for BEDP implementation and would follow a schedule shown in Annex 13.
As indicated in Chapter II, these arrangements involve the already established responsibility of the
BEDP Management Committee for overseeing project implementation. The Committee would execute
its responsibility through the Mauritius Sugar Authority which has been appointed as the BEDP
Secretariat. In support thereof, a BEDP Coordination Unit would be set up in the Authority.
Detailed management 2rrangements for individual project components would be as follows.
3.35    Power Plant Construction and Operation. The management of the Union St. Aubin
Sugar Factory, or any corporate body that may established to manage the proposed power plant,
would be responsible for the power plant construction program. It would carry out this responsibility
in close coordination with the BEDP Management Committee. Specifically, to ensure synchronization
of power plant specifications and operational performance with CEB's own base-load management,
arrangements for the Union St. Aubin power plant feasibility study, preparation of specifications and
tender documents, and evaluation of tenders leading to the awarding of contracts would be done
jointly by the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory (lead responsibility) and the BEDP Management
Committee.
3.36    A Power Plant Implementation Unit, to be established within the management structure of
the Union St. Aubin power plant, would be responsible for: (a) planning, engineering, and
procurement administration relating to the power plant program; (b) supervision of program
implementation within budgeted cost and time schedules; (c) preparation of annual work programs and
budgets; and (d) progress reporting and coordination with the BEDP Management Committee and
financing agencies. The Unit would be supported by consultant engineering expertise.



-28 -
3.37     Improvements in Mill Efrlciency. This component would involve purchasing of foreign
exchange by sugar companies through their commercial banks for importation of equipment and
machinery that will improve efficiency in steam generation and use An assurance was obtained from
the Government at negotiations that, following arrangements currently Implemented under the Sugac
Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS), the Bank of Mauritius would be responsible for: (a) screening
applications from the sugar industry for foreign exchange related to items eligible for financing under
the 1BRD loan; (b) referring such applications to the BEDP Coordination Unit for technical
verification that Individual applications conform to a list of eligible import items agreed to by the
Government and the Bank; (c) furnishing to the BEDP Coordination Unit half-yearly statements on
foreign exchange sold to the sugar industry with respect to the list of eligible import items; and (d)
preparing requests for reimbursements of approved applications out of the IBRD loan.
3.38     Technology and Staff Development. The component involves three elements: (a) the
Biomass Energy Technology Study; (b) the Bagasse Transport Technology Study; and (c) the training
program for power plant personnel. The objectives and contents of the two technology studies have
been summarized above (paras. 2.22-2.24). Tle Biomass Energy Transport Study would be carried
out by a team led by the Mauritius Sugar Authority's Head of Sugar Technology Department and
involving representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources, the
University of Mauritius, the Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute and four private sector
factories at which the experimental work will be undertaken. A multidisciplinary technical team,
including a sugar technologist (Team Leader), two research assistants, sugar process managers, an
agronomist, an economist, and a financial analyst would be drawn from the above agencies or
recruited as short-term consultants. TMe latter would cover engineering design and technical
specifications for pilot factory and agro-business evaluation of study results, totaling 6 man-months.
3.39     The Study Team for the Biomass Energy Technology Study would report through the
BEDP Coordinator to the BEDP Management Committee. The Management Committee, assisted by
a small Task Force of senior local sugar industry experts, would provide overall guidance, evaluate
results, and synthesize recommendations for follow-up action. The Management Committee would
approve work programs and the budget for the study, and based on such approval, the BEDP
Coordinator would expedite release of funds. Purthermore, the Management Committee would be
responsible for dissemination of study results and plan and implement the Bagasse Energy Technology
Study Workshop to be held in Mauritius in the beginning of 1994 to review the results with an
international group of experts. The office of the UNDP Resident Representative in Mauritius would
be requested to sponsor this workshop. The responsibility for carrying out the Bagasse Transport
Technology Study would be left with the management of Rose Belle Sugar Estate, which would be
accountable for the use of funds to the Management Committee on the basis of agreed-upon work
programs and budgets. Terms of reference for the Bagasse Energy Technology Study and the
Bagasse Transport Technology Study Teams, satisfactory to the Bank, were agreed upon during
negotiations. An assurance was obtained from the Government that draft reports of the Bagasse
Transport Technology Study and the Biomass Energy Technology Study would be forwarded to the
Bank for review and comment by January 31, 1993 and January 31, 1994, respectively and that final
reports would be submitted three months after these dates.
3.40     The training program for management and technical staff in power plant operations would
be planned, implemented, and evaluated by Union St. Aubin's Power Plant Implementation Unit in
coordination with the BEDP Coordination Unit. The training would be completed during the first two
years of the project in time to commission the Union St. Aubin power plant in 1994. The
Management Committee would sanction funding under the project, and the BEDP Coordination Unit



- 29
release funds, on the basis of an agreed-upon training program and budget, covering identified
requirements, courses, or other training methods, and selection of candidates with suitable experience
and qualifications. An indicative training program has been proposed by the Union St. Aubin Sugar
Factory management (Annex 10, Part C). Implementation arrangements for CEB's program for
training of boiler and coal-handling technicians would follow those outlined above for Union St.
Aubin's power plant technicians.
3.41     The Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory's training program would be finalized following the
awarding of contracts for the power plants. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the
Union St. Aubin's training program, together with CEB's detailed training proposals, would be
presented through the Management Committee to the Bank for its review by June 30, 1992.
3.42     BEDP Program Coordination and Environmental Monitoring. The Management
Committee would have the overall responsibility for coordinating the implementation of BEDP and its
component projects. Terms of Reference have been established and agreed upon (Annex 7). The
BEDP Coordination Unit would assist the Management Committee in implementing its task. The
Unit would be headed by a BEDP Coordinator responsible directly to the Executive Director of the
Mauritius Sugar Authority and with technical staff seconded to it from within the Authority and other
Government ministries and agencies. An essential aspect of the BEDP Coordination Unit's
responsibility is the administration of project funds and the establishment and maintenance of project
accounts (para. 3.51). Terms of Reference for the BEDP Coordinator, satisfactory to the Bank, were
agreed upon at negotiations (Annex 7, Attachment 1). A condition of effectiveness of the IBRD loan
and the GET grant would be that the Government appoint a BEDP Coordinator within the Mauritius
Sugar Authority with qualifications and Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank.
3.43    The appointment of the Mauritius Sugar Authority as the BEDP Secretariat, and the
establishment of a BE-DP Coordination Unit within the Authority has added significantly to the
Authority's overall work program. This program has grown over the past five years, particularly in
respect to monitoring the financial health of the sugar sector and assessing the adequacy of
Government policies toward the sector. Under the Sugar Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS) the Bank
has reviewed with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources the need for
organizational strengthening of the Mauritius Sugar Authority to allow it to effectively implement its
mandate. Such strengthening would involve an alignment of the Authority's organizational structure
and the recruitment of additional staff resources. Given the added demands on the Authority's
resources now imposed by BEDP coordination, it is imperative that a plan for organizational
strengthening of the Authority be adopted and implemented with respect to the Authority's expanded
work program. Actions to strengthen the Mauritius Sugar Authority organizationally were agreed
upon during negotiations.
3.44     Also, during negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that: (a) the
Mauritius Sugar Authority at all times during project implementation would ensure that suitable
technical staff from its sugar technology, agronomy, and finance departments be seconded on
appropriate terms to the BEDP Coordination Unit; (b) administrative arrangements would be put in
place and maintained to ensure that individual key technical staff from Government ministries and
agencies are available through secondment to support the BEDP Coordination Unit; and (c) the
administrative arrangements referred to under (a) and (b) would be reflected in a staff support plan
for the BEDP Coordination Unit that would be part of the first year's Annual Work Program (para.
3.48) and the implementation of which would be monitored through subsequent years' annual work
programs.
c'



- 30 -
3.45     Environmental Monitoring. The Environmenta! Monitoring Cell would be set up in in
the Mauritius Sugar Authority for two reasons. First, the national environmental monitoring program
is presently being planned, and will take time before being fully operational accross regions and
activity sectors. In the meantime, environmental monitoring of BEDP implementation needs to
proceed. Second, the national monitoring program needs to be based on emission standards. These
standards which initially will be set with respect to international norms, will ultimately need to be
determined with reference to local conditions and present levels of emissions. The Mauritius Sugar
Authority is well positioned to timely gather such information in respect of the sugar industry. In the
longer term, the role and functions of the Environmental Monitoring Cell is expected be formally
Integrated with the organizational structure of the national environmental monitoring program.
3.46    The objectives for the Environmental Monitoring Cell are two. First, the Cell would
monitor the implementation by the power plant at Union St. Aubin, and other balBasse and coal fired
power plants, of agreed mitigation plans (para. 4.12). It would, as required, advise on any
modifications of such plans that may be justified to ensure that the environmental objectives are not
jeopardized. Second, based on directives from the Department of Environment, the Environmental
Monitoring Cell would monitor environmental discharges to the air, water and land by the sugar
industry. This would facilitate the continuing review and appropriate adjusments to air emission
standards as required under the National Environmental Protection Plan. Annual work programs
would be established in close coordination with the Department of Environment of the Ministry of
Environment and Quality of Life and the development of the national environmental monitoring
program. Annual work programs and progress reports would be agreed with the Department of
Environment prior to submission to the Management Committee. All efforts would be made to avoid
overlapping in responsibilities and duplication of resources. The Terms of Reference of the Head,
Environmental Monitoring Cell, are in Annex 7, Attachment 2. The above arrangements for
environmental monitoring were agreed during negotiations.
Work Programming, Reporting and Supervision
3.47     As indicated above, annual work programs would be a key project implementation tool and
cover all project components. The BEDP Coordination Unit would prepare annual work programs
for approval of the Management Committee. They would be based on component annual work
programs prepared by individual project agencies or implementation units, namely the Power Plant
Implementation Unit of the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory for the power plant construction
component and the training program for power plant technicians, the BEDP Coordination Unit in
consultation with the Bank of Mauritius for the Sugar Mill Investment component, the Bagasse Energy
Technology Study Team for the Biomass Energy Technology Study, the Rosebelle Sugar Estate
Management for the Bagasse Technology Study, CEB for its program for training and laboratory
expansion, and the Environmental Monitoring Cell for the environmental monitoring program.
3.48    The annual work program would contain: (a) a review of project progress in the current
year; (b) a description -of project activities, outputs, and schedules in the coming year, including
objectives, performance targets, and deployment of resources; (c) detailed requirements of equipment,
supplies, and staffing; (d) a review of staff development and training, including proposals for the
coming year; (e) a budget covering project operations; and (D financing arrangements, including a
review of the economic and financial viability of mill modernization investments. Semiannual
progress reports would be prepared by the BEDP Coordination Unit and submitted through the
Management Committee to the Bank within two montis of the end of each half year. These reports



-31
should help the Management Committee in monitoring of project implementation and the Bank in its
supervision. Bank missions to review implementation would be scheduled to coincide with review of
key steps in project implementation, or as otherwise with the semi-annual project reviews and the
submission of the progress reports. Given the proposed environmental monitoring activities under the
project, supervision would be closely coordinated with that for the Bank-supported Environmental
Monitoring and Development Project. A supervision plan is shown in Annex 13, Part B.
3.49    Detailed formats for the annual work program and the progress reports were agreed to
during negotiations. Also, an assurance was obtained from the Government that the Management
Committee would by September 30, 1992, submit a first Annual Work Program, covering the project
in its entirety for the period up to June 30, 1993, including an adequate staff support plan for the
BEDP Coordination Unit, satisfactory to the Bank, and that subsequent annual work programs would
be submitted to the Bank for its review and comment by May 30 each year.
Mid-Term Review
3.50    A Mid-Term Review of the project would be carried out jointly by the Government and the
Bank no later than June 30, 1994. Prior to the review, the Management Committee would prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report covering: (a) an evaluation of overall progress in BEDP and project
implementation relative to program and project objectives, and identificataion of constraints and
bottlenecks by reviewing the adequacy of policies and regulatory framework for BEDP; (b) an
assessment of the outcome of the two technology studies and recommendations for implementing the
findings of the studies; (c) review of the effectiveness of the project's institution-building effort in
supporting the BEDP program, and how to improve it; and (d) a proposed action plan for the
Implementation of proposed recommendations. If required, the project would be modified based on
the findings and recommendations of the Mid-Term Review, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
The above arrangements were agreed to during negotiations.
Accounts and Audits
3.51    The BEDP Management Committee would ensure that separate project related accounts for
the two sources of external project funding, the IBRD and the GET, be established and maintained at
the office of the BEDP Coordination Unit to be operational from the start of project implementation.
Such accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting
principles and practices, satisfactory to the Bank, to reflect the practical performance and position of
the project.
3.52    The supporting documents and statements of expenditures would be retained by the BEDP
Coordination Unit and would be available to Bank supervision missions. During negotiations, an
assurance was obtained from the Government that an auditor's opinion and report, satisfactory to the
Bank, on the separate annual statements of expenditures, would be provided within six months of the
close of the fiscal year. The auditor's report would include a statement on the adequacy of the
accounting system and internal controls, on the reliability of statements of expenditures as a basis for
loan disbursements and on the compliance with any financial covenants. The above project accounts
and auditing arrangements would provide adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision
of disbursements and the project generally.



- 32 -
IV. BENEFfTS AND RISKS
A, Power Production
4.1     Project benefits related to the investments in the power plant and mill efficiency will be
determined on the basis of the amount of electrical power generated by the bagasse-and-coal plant and
the financial, economic, and environmental values attached thereto. Sources and use of electrical
power produced at Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory under the project are shown in Table 4. 1.
4.2     The new 22MW power plant would require three years of construction and is expected to be
commissioned in July 1994. It is projected to operate at 67 percent capacity in its first year of
operation (1994/95), and at full capacity the year after. The existing power plant (4MW turbine and
70 ton boiler), which generates electricity for the sugar factory and produces intermittent power for
sale to CEB, would decrease its operations accordingly and be phased out. Investments in improved
steam generation and efficiency at the neighboring mills of Highlands, Riche En Eau and Savannah,
are expected to enable the Union St. Aubin Power Plant at full development to import 78,000 tons of
excess bagasse annually. The power plant is projected to use a total of 150,000 tons of bagasse and
36,000 tons of coal annually at full development based on fuel-burning-efficiency levels of 460
kwhs/ton of bagasse and 1,800 kwhs/ton of coal. At full development, 51 percent of the power
generated by the plant would be produced from bagasse and 49 percent from coal, with bagasse being
bumed throughout the crop season and two weeks into the off-season. The contribution of bagasse to
power production at the plant could be further enhanced to the extent that economic storage
technologies are developed for bagasse and cane residues.
Table 4.1: PROJECTED PRODUCTION AND USE OF ELECTRICAL POWER AT
UNION ST. AUBIN SUGAR FACTORY
(Gigawatt Hours)
93-94 i'  94-95    95-96    96-97
Production
Existing 4MW Turbine                10.8      4.0      0.0       0.0
New 22MW Turbine                     0.0     67.5    134.6    134.6
Bagasse-based                       10.8     27.7     69.3      69.3
Coal-based                           0.0     43.8     65.3      65.3
use
Used Inhouse                        10.8     14.3      15.5     15.5
TraD8mission Loss                    0.0      5.4      8.1       8.1
Exported to Grid                     0.0     51.8    111.0    111.0
a/ Piscal year starting July I
B. Finandal Benefits
4.3     An analysis has been undertaken of the financial viability of the new 22MW bagasse and coal power
plant, based on provisional technical and financial data available as a result of the Union St. Aubin Sugar
Factory's pre-feasibility study. It is based on the financial costs and benefits in 1991 prices related to the
operations of the power plant as separate from the sugar factory. Other key assumptions underpinning the
analysis are that the power plant will be responsible for the transport of bagasse from neighboring mills to the



- 33 -
plant, pay for all the bagasse it gets (inicluding the bagasse obtained from the Union St. Aubin Sugar
Factory), and sell all the power it produces to the national grid and the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory. The
three sugar factories that are undertaking lnvestments to improve steam generation efficiency and use, thereby
conserving bagasse, will seek to recover the costs of these inves.nents through the sale of i,agasse. At a
price of $7.00 per ton the financial internal rate of return on these investments is estimated to be 19.1
percent. Interest during construction is capitalized.
4.4      As indicated in the financial summary, at a conservative financial price of MRs1.25 per kwh of
electrlcity sold by the power plant to CEB, thl power plant would be profitable at full capacity in 1995/96,
with net income as a percentage of sales equal to 5.7 percent. The estimated return on owners' equity in
1995/96 of 11.8 percent (in real terms) compares favorably with the opportunity cost of capital of 6.0 percent
in real terms (18 percent less the rate of inflation of 12 percent). The cash flow statements indicate that If the
power producer is reasonably leveraged at a roughly 3-1 debt-to-equity ratio, it would be able to service its
debt, having a debt-service coverage ratio of 1.2 times (details in Annex 11, Section B).
Table 4.2: FINANCIAL SUMMARY OF POWER PLANT OPERATIONS
(S million)
1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1998199
InomeSttement Items
Revenues from Electricity Sales              5.1      10.2      10.2     10.2
Operating Profit                             1.9    4.3         4.3       4.3
Net Income                                   (1.8)     0.6       0.6      0.6
Funds Statement Items
Intemal Sourmcs                              1.9       4.3      4.3       4.3
Borwings                                     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Equity Investments                           0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Sources                                1.9       4.3       4.3      4.3
Capital Expenditures                         0.3       0.2      0.0       0.0
Worldng Capital (Decrease)                  (1.1)      0.2       0.0      0.0
Debt Service                                 3.7       3.7      3.7       3.7
Total Applications                           3.0       4.0      3.7       3.7
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                               1.7       2.2      2.8       3.9
Net Fixed Assets                            23.7      22.6     21.3      18.7
Total Assets                                25.3      24.8      24.1     22.6
Curant Liabilities                           1.4       1.6       1.6      1.6
Long-Term Debt                              20.8      19.5      18.2     15.6
Equity                                       3.1       3.7      4.3       5.5
Total Liabilities and Equity                25.3      24.8      24.1     22.6
Operating Income as Percent
of Revenues                                 37.4      42.4      42.4     42.4
Net Income as Percent of Revenues          (35.2)      5.7       5.7      5.7
Return on Owners' Equity (percentage)      (36.4)     11.8      11.8     11.8
Retum on Total Capital (perentage)          (7.5)      2.5       2.6      2.8
Return on Assets (percentage)                (7.1)     2.3       2.4      2.6
Debt Service Coveage                         0.5       1.2       1.2      1.2
Current Ratio                                1.2       1.4       1.7      2.5
Debt as a Percent of Total
Capitalization                              86.9      83.9      80.8    74.0



- 34 -
C. Economic Benerits
4.5      There are multiple project benefits. On the agricultural side the increased diversification
by the sugar sector into electricity production will strengthen the sector fn'nacially by making it less
vulncrable to market shocks. On the energy side, bagasse and coal plants offer the least-cost
alternative, will save the country foreign exchange ($2.0 million annually at full development, details
in Annex 1 1), and will mobilize private sector resources into infrastructure. Environmentally, acid
gas and carbon dioxide emissions would be reduced (para. 4.10). In the longer term, technology
development for the use of cane residue other than bagasse, to be initiated under the project, is
expected to deepen the benefits in all of the above areas.
Econoomic Analysis
4.6      The economic analysis calculates the net incremental benefit to the project of establishing a
22MW bagasse and coal power plant, based on the data from the Union St. Aubin's pre-feasibility
study. The analysis includes the investments and operating expenses for the 22MW bagasse-and-coal
power plant, the transmission lines and interconnection costs, the transportation equipment, and the
mill modernization investments at the three neighboring sugar factories. The costs for mill
modernization are incremental, accounting only for additional expenses to conserve bagasse that
would be made if there were a power plant willing to purchase the bagasse.
4.7     Incremental benefits are taken as the economic value of the exported electricity plus the
economic value of the electricity generated but used in-house by the power plant or sugar factory.
The economic value of electricity is priced at the avoided cost in 1991 dollars of establishing and
operating a 24MW two-stroke diesel power plant. The variable cost of diesel is set at the projected
price in the year 2005, the midpoint of the project to capture the underlying real increase in the price
of diesel, and to reduce the impact of annual price fluctaations on the economic analysis. The
economic price in the year 2005 is calculated at MRs 1. 18 per kwh, or US$76.13 per MWh.
4.8      The economic internal rate of return is calculated from the start of construction to the end
of the life of the plant, 20 years after the first year of operation, for a total of 22 years. Equipment
with shorter useful life is replaced during the project. Given the assumptions discussed above, the
economic rate of return is 18.1 percent. This rate of return is fairly robust: if the costs of
construction of the power plant increase by 20 percent, increasing operating costs proportionally, the
rate of return falls to 14.8 percent; if the capital costs for mill modernization investments Increase by
20 percent, the rate of return drops to 17.8 percent; if the price of coal increases by 20 percent, the
rate of return becomes 16.2 percent; if bagasse availability drops by 20 percent, requiring the
substitution of coal for bagasse, the rate of return becomes 15.8 percent; if the price per kwh of
electricity drops by 20 percent, which represents a 50 percent drop In the year 2005 price of diesel,
the rate of return becomes 9.4 percent (details in Annex I 1, Section A).
D. Environmental Impact
4.9      The Environmental Assessment of the project concludes that the proposed investment in the
bagasse and coal power plant at Union St. Aubin is environmentally superior to the alternative of
CEB constructing a diesel plant near Port Louis. The project is not expected to have environmental
consequences that cannot be effectively managed with due concern for environmental standards. A



- 35 -
summary of the draft Environmental Assessment Report prepared by the BEDP Subcommittee on
Environment is in Annex 12 and was circulated to the IBRD Board of Executive Directors on
December 19,1991. Also, the Government has submitted the final report on the Environmental
Assessment which reflects the views and comments expressed by the Bank.
4.10     Compared to the diesel alternative, the proposed project would reduce acid gases (sulfur
dioxides and nitrogen oxides) by 75 percent, and decrease greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide) by 10 to
20 percent. As a result of coal burning during the off-season, particulate emissions would increase
from 300 tons per year to 520 tons per year, assuming the minimum recommended pollution control
measures (para. 4.12) are implemented. For the same reason there would be an increase in the
generation of solid waste (coal ash). The incremental coal-ash waste would be disposed of through
recycling for use in concrete manufacturing or in road construction material. Air quality analysis
shows that the impact from the proposed facility would not affect public health or welfare, nor would
the facility endanger vegetation near the project site or the vegetation and wildlife in the neighboring
Black River Gorge Forest Reserve.
4.11    The Environmental Monitoring Cell to be established in the BEDP Coordination Unit
would be responsible for overseeing that the proposed mitigation plan is implemented and for
establishing an air quality monitoring program for emissions from the sugar industry. The latter is
considered essential as an input to the National Environmental Action Plan, leading to the
establishment of national emission standards. Appropriate arrangements are being put in place under
the National Environmental Action Plan to establish a national program for monitoring air quality.
Within this program priority will be given to coverage of the Black River Gorge Forest Reserve, the
environmental importance of which in terms of its biodiversity is internationally recognized.
4.12    The project's environmental mitigation plan (Annex 12) would in summary involve the
following key measures by the management of the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory: (a) the installation
of a scrubber with a minimum particulate-removal efficiency of 75 percent (the final choice of
scrubber technology to be made through the feasibility study of the proposed power plant); (b)
treatment of ash sluice and scrubber water through removal of particles using sedimentation, filtration
techniques, or both, with effluents to be recycled in the process; (c) use of non-potable w.ter for
cooling tower makeup (final design to consider use of the evaporative condensate or cane washwater
from sugar processing) with continued mixing of discharge of cooling water and boiler blowdown
with canal discharge; (d) recycling of bagasse ash as a soil supplement (continuing current practices);
and (e) recycling of coal ash as a supplement to cement block manufacturing and as an aggregate in
road base materials. During negotiations, the above mitigation plan, and the associated monitoring
arrangements were agreed to.
E. Risks
4.13    Project design and conditionality reduce the risks of implementation failure. The
Government already has adopted an overall institutional and incentive framework for bagasse energy
development. Delays in implementing this framework might induce the private sector to postpone
investments. Were this to occur, the CEB would go ahead with its alternative diesel plant (para.
2.13, 'fable 2.2) and, as a result, the establishment of the Union St. Aubin power plant would slip
into the 1995 slot in the energy expansion path. This would effectively defer the realization of
project benefits by one year. Consumers of eleetricity would, however, be left unaffected.



- 36 -
4.14     A second risk is that the Government may not follow through in implementing the adopted
BEDP policy directives. This risk, however, is addressed through the proposed conditions of
effectiveness for the Bank loan and the GEF grant and the project's support for the management and
coordination of BEDP implementation. The BEDP Management Committee which is to ensure that
the Government's policy directives are implemented, establishes a forum within which the public
sector and the sugar industry can coordinate planning and decisions on investments related to
expansion of power production capacity. The effectiveness of this forum in fostering collaboration
betweeui the public sector and the sugar industry would be enhanced by the proposed support to the
BEDP Coordination Unit, and the continued presence of the Bank in reviewing progress in BEDP
implementation.
4.15     A third risk concerns lack of timely financing for the project's power plant. Given the
current level of donor interest, this is not considered a serious risk. If there were a plant financing
problem, the proposed Bank financing would not become effective, leaving the possibility open for
renegotiation of such financing. The risk of the proposed power plant investment becoming financially
non-viable will be addressed in the long-term power purchase contract with CEB - which reflects
Government-adopted guidelines for efficient energy pricing. As already indicated, the economic
viability of the project is relatively insensitive to changes in fossil fuel prices and bagasse availability.
Events causing coal price increases or drops in diesel prices therefore do not pose serious project
risks. The economic analysis has also demonstrated that the economic viability of the proposed
investment can withstand substantial reductions in bagasse availability. While the power plant at the
Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory may fail to obtain the assumed level of bagasse from neighboring
mills, such failures would not present major project risks.
4.16    The technical complexity of the project and the industry's ability to implement it are not
considered a problem. The power production technology is well established (para. 2.3) and the sugar
industry has long experience and a proven record of being technically efficient.
4.17    While the project has positive environmental consequences compared with its next-best
alternative, it will increase emissions of particulates and gases beyond present levels. The risks of
such incremental emissions having an adverse impact on population, vegetation, or wildlife have been
estimated as acceptable, given the best understanding of tolerable levels of concentrations of
emissions. However, to ensure that such risks are kept at a minimum, and to install a system for
tracing air quality impact and signaling of any needed additional controls, the project would establish
a program to monitor emissions from sugar factories and bagasse and coal fired power plants.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Assurances Obtained During Negotiations
General Conditions
5.1     Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that:
(a) the Central Electricity Board would be responsible for operating and maintaining the
power substation required to connect the power plant at the Union St. Aubin Sugar
Factory to CEB's main transmission system (para. 3.5);



- 37 .
(b) importation of mill equipment and machinery eligible for financing under the IBRD
loan would be according to an agreed-upon list as set out in Annex 14 (para. 3.9);
(c) the Government's detailed proposals for use of counterpart funds be included in its first
Annual Work Program with further adjustments to be reflected in subsequent Annual
Work Programs, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.23);
(d) the Government would pass on GET funds as grants to the Mauritius Sugar Authority
($3.0 million), which would administer these funds following Bank Guidelines, and to
the Central Electricity Board ($0.3 million) for training of CEB staff and expanding the
fuel analysis laboratory (para. 3.24);
(e) the administrative tasks now performed by the Bank of Mauritius under the Sugar
Industry Project (Ln 2728-MAS) would be performed under the mill investment
component of the proposed project (para. 3.37);
(f) the Mauritius Sugar Authority would establish and implement a staff support plan for
the BEDP Coordination Unit, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that the Unit at all
times during project implementation has enough qualified technical staff through
secondment from the Mauritius Sugar Authority and other Govermnent agencies, witi
the establishment of such a staff support plan to be covered in the first Annual Work
Program and with the implementation of the plan to be monitored through subsequent
annual work programs (para. 3.44);
(g) the Environmental Monitoring Cell in the BE-DP Coordination Unit would be
responsible for overseeing the implementation of an environmental mitigation plan,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.46);
(h) the Management Committee would submit an Annual Work Program and a Semi-annual
Progress Report to the Bank by May 30 of each year in formats satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.49); the second of such semiannual reports to include an annual
assessment of the economic and financial viability of the mill improvement investments
to be reviewed by the Bank (para. 3.10);
(i) Terms of Reference were agreed for the Bagasse Energy Technology Study and the
Bagasse Transport Technology Study Teams (para. 3.39), the BEDP Coordinator
(para. 3.42), and the Head of the Environmental Monitoring Cell (para. 3.46),
satisfactory to the Bank; and
0) accounting and audit arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, would be implemented
(para. 3.52);
Dated Covenants
5.2     (a) the Government would implement the revised system for the Bagasse Transfer
Payment, acceptable to the Bank, by July 1, 1992 (para. 2.32);



-38 -
(b) the Govenunent would submit the draft reports of the Bagasse Transport Technology
Study and the Biomass Energy Technology Study to the Bank for its review by January
31, 1993 and January 31, 1994 respectively and that final reports would be submitted
three months thereafter (para. 3.39);
(c) the Government would submit the detailed training programs for technical staff of the
Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory and the CEB to the Bank for review by June 30, 1992
(para. 3.41);
(d) the Government would, by September 30, 1992, submit an Annual Work Program for
the period up to June 30, 1993 including a staff support plan for the BEDP
Coordination Unit, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.49); and
(e) the Government and the Bank would jointly carry out a Mid-Term Review of the
project by June 30, 1994, on Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank and the
Government would, if required, and on the basis of the findings and recommendations
of the Mid-Term Review, take the necessary measures, acceptable to the Bank, to
revise project implementation procedures (para. 3.50).
D. Conditions of IBRD) Loan/GET Grant Effectiveness
5.3     These conditions would include:
(a) the execution by CEB and the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory of contracts covering the
purchase of electricity and sale of coal on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(aras. 2.34-2.35);
(b) submission of appropriate documentation demonstrating: (i) technical, financial,
economic, and environmental viability of the proposed power plant investnent
component, based on the completed feasibility study; and (ii) the securing of an overall
financing package for the proposed investment, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.6);
and
(c) appointment of a BEDP Coordinator within the Mauritius Sugar Authority with
qualifications and on Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.42); and
C. Recommendation
5.4     With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable for an IBRD Loan
of $15 million on IBRI) terms with 17 years maturity and 5 years grace, and a GET Grant of $3.3
million.



- 39 -
Page 1 of 4
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Sugar Action Plan - Objectives and Progress In Implementation
Background
1.    The primary purpose of this Annex is to briefly review the significance of the
Government's Bagasse Energy Development initiative in the context of sugar industry policy
reform in Mauritius over the last five to six years. A secondary purpose is to illustrate how
the Bank's agricultural lending program in Mauritius supports this agenda of policy and
institutional reform.
Recent Performance Trends
2.    The sugar industry prospered during the early to mid-1970s. Steady growth in ouput
was supported by rising prices and demand in preferential markets. Following a period of
output stagnation and a reversal of the price trend during the latter half of the decade, the
industry's performance started to decline. Output, total profits of milling companies and
aggregate annual investments in estates with factories all began to fall. Simultaneously, the
contribution by the sugar subsector to the economy declined. While cyclones and droughts
had contributed to this decline, the main reasons were to be found in the institutional and
Government policy framework affecting producers' decisions.
3.    Concern over the decline in sugar industry performance prompted the Government to
set up a Commission of Inquiry in 1982. Based on the Commission's two reports, the
Government proceeded to issue guidelines for a Restructuration Program for the industry.
With the Commission being divided in opinion, and producing two sharply divergent reports,
the Government had to turn elsewhere for guidelines for a restructuring program for the
industry. The Mauritius Sugar Authority was established to plan such restructuring in detail.
It invited the private sector, organized through the Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture, to
present its proposals for industry restructuring. This took the form of a Master Plan which
was submitted to the Sugar Authority in December 1984. Having reviewed the Master Plan
through a series of Task Forces, the Sugar Authority proceeded to prepare a Sugar Action
Plan which was published in early 1985.
The Sugar Action Plan
4.    The Sugar Action Plan of 1985 outlined a program of structural reform and investments
against the background of the following industry constraints:
(a)    Low profitability in the organized sector (miller-planters) caused by the effects of
the export tax regime (tie export tax on sugar was raised from 13.5 to 23.6



- 40 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 4
percent in 1979) and inflexibilities in resource allocation (transfer of lands, curbs
on movements of capital assets, especially on mill closures, and rigidities in the
labour market).
(b)    Lack of transparency and accountability in the organized sector leading to tensions
between the various elements in the sugar sector.
(c)    Relatively low efficiency of cultivation in the small farmer sector due to slow
adoption of new farming techniques, poor organization of farmers' services and
inadequate coordination between small planters and sugar mills.
(d)    Insufficient research on certain aspects of the sugar sector.
(e)    Underutilization of by-products of the sugar industry, implying inadequate
resource utilization, and insufficient attention to irrigation and crop diversification.
5.    To address these constraints the Sugar Action Plan proposed investment programs for
improving planters' productivity, sugar mill rehabilitation and modernization, and production of
energy from bagasse. In support thereof it set out a series of restructuring measures covering
broadening of mill ownership, separation of milling from estate enterprises and establishment of
companies for mills, reform of accounting and financial practices of the sugar industry, and
amendments to the tax framework to strike a better balance between adequate returns to the
industry and its contribution to Government budget resources.
Progress in Implementation
6.    The Sugar Action Plan's proposals for policy reform were introduced in part under the
Sugar Industry Package Deal Act of 1985. Restrictions on mill closures were lifted (two mills
were allowed to close in 1985), taxes on transfers of agricultural larnds were reduced, and the
export tax structure was modified, making it more progressive to apply to incremental rather than
total production and reducing the average incidence of taxation. Notwithstanding these policy
initiatives, it was recognized that further improvements in the business environment were needed.
Industry claims that profitability remained too low to generate the necessary investments were
difficult to evaluate given that financial reporting was not based on a standardized accounting
system. Transparency was further clouded by inadequate disclosure requirements. These factors
caused mistrust between sugar workers and employers, and the Government was unable to judge
the adequacy of industry returns in promoting investments and improved productivity in milling.
7.  It was apparent, therefore, that further policy reform under the Sugar Action Plan needed to
be developed on the basis of a comprehensive study on the financial status of the sugar industry.
Such a study, the Sugar Industry Efrciency Study was carried out under the Bank-financed
Sugar Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS) with extensive participation by the sugar industry. Under
the coordination by the Mauritius Sugar Authority, it was completed in 1988. The study's two
specific objectives were to
(a)    provide a transparent and analytical base for rational institutional and policy
reforms (based on a standardized accounting system) to promote efficient



- 41 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
utilization of resources in meeting the adopted sugar production target and pave
the way for agricultural diversification; and
(b)   to contribute to the development of a climate of trust between workers, planters,
sugar comparnies and the Government.
8.    Following the recommendations of the study the Govermment introduced a package of
policy reforms under the Sugar Industry Efficiency Act of 1988 (SIE Act). The objectives of
the Act are to provide "for an efficient and a viable sugar industry, to preserve agricultural land,
to promote agricultural diversification and diversification within sugar, and second, to ensure that
all commitments under the Sugar Protocol are met, to ensure fairness, equity and transparency
within the Sugar Industry." Tle policy reforms focused on the taxation regime for the sugar
industry, and incentives for efficiency improvements, energy production and agricultural
diversification.
9.    Policy Measures under the SIES Act. The SIES focused on the export taxation regime
and the central problem that the duty payable by the sector is unresponsive to the level of
profitability of the sugar industry. It concluded that industry profitability changes primarily as a
result of movements in external market conditions and the fixed costs of the industry. Both of
these costs are laregly outside the control of the industry. The study therefore recommended the
introduction of provisions for industry costs ("allowable costs") as a deduction in defining the
taxable base for duty, the determination of a level of export duty (on export receipts) targeted
towards a minimum level of return on assets, and the adjustment over time of the export duty
with this objective in mind.
10.   Taking these recommendations into account the Government instituted a package of export
taxation policy measures under the SIE Act. The nominal duty rate on exports revenues was
reduced by removing the duty surcharge. Simultaneously, the exemption limit on the export duty
for sugar was raised from 1000 tons to 3000 tons. Finally, export duty rebates were introduced
as incentives for improved factory performance on sugar recovery and the utilization of bagasse
for electricity production (millers selling bagasse to suppliers of firm electrical power to the
Central Electricity Board are entitled to rebates on the basis of amount of bagasse sold per ton of
cane processed). These measures combined implied a lowering of the average export duty paid
on sugar accrued from about 20 to 13.5 percent. This in turn translated into effective tax relief of
about Rs. 200 million (S 12.5) to the industry in 1990.
11.   The SIE Act also brought about amendments to the Income Tax Act, designed to provide
incentives to produce high quality sugar products, save energy in sugar factories, and utilize
bagasse to produce electricity, all addressing elements of the Sugar Action Plan. These incentives
included income tax exemptions equivalent to 60 percent of the value of sales of electricity by
power producing sugar companies to CEB, and 75 percent of the proceeds of sale of bagasse by
sugar factories to power producing sugar companies. They also provided for income tax relief for
50 percent of the premiums obtained on sale of special sugar products. Finally, the amendments
introduced increased capital allowances with emphasis on expenditures related to energy
production and pollution control.
12.    The sugar industry, on its side, has agreed to submit accounting information on a
standardized basis in the form of Specialized Financial Returns (SFRs). The industry has also



- 42 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 4
undertaken a revaluation of Its assets according to guidelines established under Sugar Industry
Efficiency Study. Based on annually updated asset evaluations and the analysis of the SFRs, the
Mauritius Sugar Authority is expected to objectively evaluate the industry's financial performance,
assess the impact of Government policies, and as appropriate recommend adjustments to such
policies.
13.   Apart from the above actions directly impacting efficiency and viability of the sugar
sector, the SIE Act introduced policy measures affecting land use. Administrative controls over
conversion of land from agriculture to non-agricultural activities was strengthened at the central
level of Government. Consistent with the Sugar Action Plan's dual objectives to increase
productivity in sugar cultivation and maintain production within a target level, fiscal measures
were established through the export taxation structure (export duty rebates) to encourage use of
marginal cane lands for production of crops other than sugar.
14.    Other Initiatives under the Sugar Action Plan. To address constraints on smallholder
productivity (para. 4c), the Government has launched several programs. Improvements in labor
productivity are being pursued through a national derocking scheme, Land Area Management
Units and mechanization. These are reinforced with specialized services under the Farmers'
Service Center Program which were established under the Sugar Industry Project. These services
are designed to promote efficient use of improved inputs and farmer participation in the pilot
program of grouping farmers into economic units for management purposes.
15.   The expansion of irrigation services, an essential component of the productivity strategy,
has been constrained by institutional as well as efficiency factors. They will be addressed under
the Agricultural Management and Services Project, for which the Government obtained World
Bank financing (Ln. 3333-MAS) in 1991. A major objective of this project is to strengthen the
capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources in the areas of policy
formulation and sectoral management, research and extension, and irrigation services. In an
effort to further strengthen agricultural services for smallholders, the the Mauritius Sugar
Authority has recently undertaken a comprehensive study of smallholder production activities and
constraints (financed under the Sugar Industry Project). The recommendations of the study are
currently under Government review.
16.   Finally, to address the Sugar Action Plan's agenda on utilization of by-products in the
sugar industry, the Government in partnership with the private sector has launched the Bagasse
Energy Development Program. Delays in moving initiatives forward in this area were caused
primarily by a lack of Goverrnent coordination of sugar and energy sector policies and
inadequate incentives to sugar companies for energy related investments. Based on recent
improvements In the business environment for the sugar industry the BEDP, as enhanced by the
policy measures taken under the Sugar Industry Efficiency Act of 1988, the industry has presented
an ambitious investment program to promote use of bagass for power production. The
Government has adopted a set of supporting policy measures on energy pricing and contracting.
The stage is therefore set for implementation of the Program. The project described in the main
text of this report is a proposed vehicle for initiating such implementation.
sedpsar.axlgc
11/06/91



43 
Annx 2
Page I of 3
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Sugar Industry's Contribution to National Power Supply
1.      At present the sugar industry exports 97.3GWh of electricity to the Central Electricity
Board's (CEB) grid, accounting for 15 percent of the island's electricity use. Of this total, 67.2GWh
are produced from bagasse (roughly eight percent of total power produced in Mauritius), and the rest
is produced from coal. Table I summarizes the supply of electricity by the sugar factories, and Table
2 summarizes the use of bagasse In the supply of electricity. The supply of electricity by the sugar
industry takes the form of a 'intermittent", "continuous" or "firm" power.
Intermittent Power
2.      Sugar factories currently burn bagasse during the crop season to produce :he steam required
in the sugar production process. The steam requirements of the factory are often difficult to gauge
exactly. Twelve factories have been exporting any extra steam in the form of electricity to the CEB
grid. Over the years 1986 to 1989 an average of 12.8GWh per year of intermittent electricity (as and
when available), has been exported to the grid by these 12 factories. At an average efficiency of
125KWh per ton of bagasse, this is equivalent to 103,000 tons of bagasse.
Continuous Power
3.      Two factories, Medine and Mon Tresor Mon Desert, have lOMW and 5MW of installed
capacity respectively--significantly more than what is required for their sugar production processes.
These two factories have contracted with CEB to supply continuous power during the crop season.
Over the years 1986 to 1989 Medine provided an average of 16.6GWh of continuous power per year,
and Mon Tresor Mon Desert provided 4.6GWh. At an average efficiency of 380 to 400KWh per ton
of bagasse, the total electricity production of 21.3GWh is equivalent to 54,000 tons of bagasse.
Firm Power
4.      Given the significant bagasse availability at its factory, Flacq United Estates Ltd (FUEL)
has installed 21.7MW of capacity and contracted with CEB to provide firm power on a year-round
basis, by burning bagasse during the crop season and coal during the off-season. Using its own
bagasse and bagasse from neighboring factories, FUEL, over the period 1986-89 exported an average
of 33. lGWh of firm power from bagasse to the CEB, equivalent to 75,000 tons of bagasse. FUEL
also supplied an average of 30. 1GWh of electricity from coal.
Wdpsar.ax2go
11106191



- 44  -                                    Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
MAURrIWUS
SUGAR ENERGY DBVEIIWOET PROJEl!l
Tbale 1: kctticihy Prodnce fiom Bgs  ud Exptoiled by Sugar Factoe
(Kwhs)
1986-89
Sugar Factory               1986         1987         1988        1989      Average
NORTH
Beau Plan               1,007,500     999,453      249,000      235,500     622,863
Bollt Vue               2,015,000    1,465,000     768,000      814,500    1,265,625
Mon Lobiir              1,092,600    2,008,300    1,094,100    1,186,800    1,345,450
Mount                     361,800     242,400      '79,300      651,100     458,650
St Antoine                991,000     942,800      433,800      739,000     776,650
Subtotal               5,467,900    5,657,953    3,124,200    3,626,900    4,469,238
CENTER
Beau Champ                134,450      31,160       17,360       32,920      53,973
Constance               1,296,056    1,112,328     962,256      823,796    1,048,609
FUEL 1/                34,154,933   31,829,869   41,032,670   25,523,552   33,135,256
Mon Deaert Alma         2,296,200    2,508,000    1,670,400    1,078,200    1,888,200
Subtotal              37,881,639   35,481,357   43,682,686   27,458,468   36,126,038
SOUTH
Sel Ombre                      0            0           0            0            0
Britannia                  78,520    1,664,350    1,805,010    1,056,610    1,151,123
Highiands                      0            0           0            0            0
Mon Tresor              4,200,000    5,176,000    4,336,000    4,624,000    4,584,000
Riche En EAu            1,125,120    1,713,360    1,357,200    1,354,560    1,387,560
Rose Belle                     0            0           0            0            0
Savannah                2,707,200    2,117,400    2,300,400    2,279,400    2,351,100
St FPlix                       0            0           0            0            0
Union St Aubln            477,840     589,680      603,120      217,440     472,020
Subtotal               8,588,680   11,260,790   10,401,730    9,532,010    9,945,803
MEDINE                 15,750,000   20,099,000   15,139,000   15,649,000   16,659,250
TOTAL                  67,688,219   72,499,100   72,347,616   56,266,378   67,200,328
Of Which:
Firm Power            34,154,933   31,829,869   41,032,670   25,523,552   33,135,256
Continuous Power      19,950,000   25,275,000   19,475,000   20,273,000   21,243,250
Iatermittant Power    13,583,286   15,394,231    11,839,946   10,469,826    12,821,822
1/ In addition FUEL exported an average of 30 Gwhs of electricity from coal.



_ 45  -                                   Annex  2
Page 3 of 3
MAUItIFUS
SUGAR ENEROY DEVELP      yM PROJECT
Table 2: Bagme Uaed by Sugar Factouia In PioduSig Expod lectidy
(tons)
1986-89
Sugar Factory                 1986         1987          1988         1989       Average
- - -      Un - U=   w=a=   e=a= c               ======       ====   c=z:e=
NORTH
Beau Plan                    8,060         7,996        1,992         1,884        4,983
Belle Vue                   16,120        11,720        6,144        6,516        10,125
Mon Loisir                   8,741        16,066        8,753        9,494        10,764
Mount                        2,894         1,939        4,634         5,209        3,669
St Antoine                   7,928         7,542        3,470        5,912         6,213
Subtotal                   43,743       45,264        24,994       29,015        35,754
CENTER
Beau Champ                   1,076          249           139          263           432
Constanco                   10,368         8,899        7,698        6,590         8,389
FUEL                        77,625        72,341       93,256       58,008        75,307
Mon Derert Alma             18,370        20,064       13,363         8,626       15,106
Subtotal                  107,438       101,553      114,456       73,487        99,234
SOUTH
Bel Ombre                        0            0             0            0             0
Britannia                      628        13,315       14,440        8,453         9,209
Highlands                        0            0             0            0            0
MonTresor                   11,053        13,621       11,411        12,168       12,063
RicheEnEau                   9,001        13,707       10,858        10,836       11,100
Rose Belle                       0            0             0            0             0
Savannah                    21,658        16,939       18,403        18,235       18,809
St Felix                         0            0             0            0             0
Union St Aubin               3,823         4,717        4,825         1,740        3,776
Subtotal                   46,162       62,299        59,936       51,433        54,958
MEDINE                      39,375        50,248       37,848        39,123       41,648
m gma : == = m m   s = Im= = = = =  ======= ===S==== =======  ====S:==c
TOTAL                      236,719       259,363      237,234       193,058      231,593
Of Which:
Firm Power                 77,625        72,341       93,256       58,008        75,307
Continuous Power           50,28         63,869       49,258       51,291        53,711
Intenittsnt Power         108,666       123,154       94,720       83,759       102,575
Asaunms 125 kwh produced per ton of bagasse on an interrnittant basis,
380 kwh produced per ton of bagassc on a continuous basis at Mon Tresor,
400 kwh produced per ton of bagassc on a continuous basis at Medine,
and 440 kwh produced per ton of bagasx at FUEL.



- 46 -
Annex 
Page 1 of 5
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assessment of Bagasse Availability
Introduction
1.    This annex assesses the current and potential availability of bagasse for the production of
electricity for export to the Central Electricity Board (CEB). J./ The assessment underpins the
proposed investments under the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP), the design of the
proposed project, and the financial and economic analysis of the envisaged project investments in a
22MW power plant at the Union St Aubin Sugar Factory.
2.    In 1986 to 1989 average cane production of 5.8 million tons produced 1.5 million tons of
bagasse, including 10 percent for startup losses, which could be used for the production of power to
operate the sugar production process, and to export electricity to the CEB grid. Only a small fraction
(15 percent) was in fact used for producing electricity for the grid. The Bagasse Energy Development
Program addresses several ways of increasing the production of electricity from bagasse, i.e.
(a)    bagasse could be used for the production of "firm" power at regional power plants
rather than being used to produce "intermittent" or "continuous" power 2/;
(b)    bagasse that is currently burned as waste could be transported to regional power
stations; and
(c)   the use of bagasse for the production of steam needed by the sugar production process
could be reduced by improving the efficiency of sugar factories in generating and
using steam.
Bagasse Currently Available
3.    The current (1986 to 1989 avei-age) availability of bagasse from cane, and the use of bagasse
for the production of steam to meet the requirements of the sugar production process are shown in the
attached Table 1. At present, 1,210,000 tons of bagasse are required to produce steam for the sugar
production process. Given that Flacq United Estates Ltd (FUEL) Sugar Factory will continue to use
75,000 tons of bagasse to produce firm power, and that the Medine and Mon Tresor Mon Desert
Sugar Factories will use 54,000 tons of bagasse to produce continuous power, there is a potential
supply of 202,000 tons of bagasse available for the production of firm power. Of this potential
1V    Ihe current production of electricity from bagasse is reviewed in
Annex 2.
;a/    For an explanation of "firm", 'continuous' and "intermittent" power see Annex 2.



- 47 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
supply, 103,000 tons are currently being used for the production of intermittent power and the
balance, 99,000 tons, is incinerated as waste.
Potential Bagasse Availability
4.    Sugar factories are in the process of upgrading and modernizing their mills. As part of this
process, they have indicated the investments that would be necessary to improve the efficiency of
steam production and use in order to require less bagasse, thus conserving it for use in power
production. After these mill improvements take place, only 1,109,000 tons of bagasse will be needed
to generate power for the sugar production process. An extra 101,000 tons would become available
for use in the production of electricity for export, for a total of 303,000 tons of bagasse. Table 2
(ateached) indicates the use of bagasse for the production of steam in the modernized plants, and the
availability of bagasse for the production of power.
Regional Distribution
5.      Table 3 (attached) shows the regional distribution of bagasse, and the maximum potential
production of electricity from the bagasse at three regional power plants of roughly 20MW capacity
each. As can be seen, 154,000 tons are available for use in the South, at the Union St Aubin Sugar
Factory, to produce 70,000 kwh of electricity. In the Center, 253,000 tons are available for use at
the FUEL Sugar Factory, to produce 111 ,000 kwh of electricity. In the North, a power plant located
at the Belle Vue Sugar Factory, could use a total of 207,000 tons of bagasse to produce 93,0O0 kwh
of electricity. The Medine Sugar Factory is too far from these centers, and is assumed to produce
continuous power only.
sedpsar.ax3gc
11/06/91



-48-                                           Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
MAURTrlUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELPBMN PROJECI
Table 1: Cm ent Availbiliq  f Bagw by Sugar Fatory
Bagasse    Currently
Available             Available                  Steam    Tons Steam    Used       Available
Cane      Bagasse    Bagasa       Steam      Required   per Ton of   Factory     Bagasse
Factory                 (Tons)  (%rron Cone)  (rons)  (KS/Ton Cane)   (rons)       Bagasse    (Tons)       (rons)
NORTH
wau Plan                261,925       31.78%    74,916      423          110,794       2.17      51,057      23,859
Belle Vue               414,836       34.01%   126,977      470          194,973       2.20      88,624      38,353
Mon Loisir              282,042       31.93%    81,050      380          107,176       2.10      51,036      30,014
Mourn                   213,104       30.57%    58,631      458           97,602        1.90     51,369       7,262
St Antoine              216,201       33.95%    66,060      539          116,532       2.18      53,455      12,605
Subtotal              1,388,108               407,635                                          295,542     112,093
CENTER
Beau Champ              434,919       ^8.19%   110,343      470          204,412       2.10      97,339      13,004
Consance                285,833       30.27%    77,869      490          140.058       2.18      64,247      13,623
FUEL                    696,309       29.68%   185,998      410          285,487       2.25     126,883      59,115
',lon Desert Alma       352,146       27.26%    86,395      490          172,552       2.18      79,132       7,243
Subtotal              1,769,207               460,606                                          367,621      92,985
SOUTH
Bel Ombre               184,080       30.40%    50,364      465           85,597       1.78      48,088       2,276
Britannia               219,840       23.97%    47,426      480          105,523       2.20      47,965        (539)
Highlands               254,310       27.95%    63,972      500          127,155       2.18      58,328       5.644
Mon Tresor              263,345       28.82%    68,306      412          108.498       2.20      49,317      18,989
Richo En Eau            271,644       28.66%    70,068      420          114,090       2.00      57,045      13,023
Role Belle              210,554       28.90%    54,76S      465           97,908       2.15      45,538       9,227
Savannah                303,267       27.17%    74,158      470          142,535       2.18      65,383       8,775
St Felix                139,042       28.95%    41,438      465           73,955       1.78      41,547        (109)
UrionStAubin            293,905       27.40%    72,477      380          111,684       2.10      53,183      19,294
Subtotal             2,159,987                542,975                                          466.396      76,579
MEDkNB                  484,S63       29.70%   129,524      366          177,350       2.20      80,614      48,910
inmmmmme      mmxa        c:          e        c mm=G I m9C= m 9mI M             e====mmmmm   m;== m=me = 
TOTAL                  5,801,865              1,540,740                                       1,210,173     330,567
CakulAtiona:
1. (AvAilbT Tor Cane x Percentage Bagse per Ton Cane) x (I -Statup LosKS or o Ptrcntl)
A Available Tons Bagaiss
2. (Availrblo 'Tons Can x Kg Stetm Rcquired to Process Raw Juice Extracted per Ton Cane)I .000
- Tons Steam Required
3. Tons Steam Requiredfrons Stcom Produced at each Factory per Ton Bagasse
- Tont Bqasse Required (Used)
4. Ava lable Tons Iagasae - Tons Bbassa Requited - Excecr Bhgasse Currtntly or Potentially Available



-49-                                         Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
MAURIIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVElPM[ENT PROJCr
Table 2: I4Aeu Availability of 8ae by Factocy
Bagasse  Potentially
Available              Available                 Steam     Tons Steam    Used       Available
Cane      Bagasse     Bagasse     Steam       Required    per Ton of   Factory     Bagasse
Factory          (Tons)  (%/Ton Cane)  (Tons)  (Kgfron Cane)    (rons)       Bagasse     (rons)      (rons)
NORT}I
Beau Plan                261,925      31.78%    74,916       410          107.389        2.20     48,813       26,102
Belle Vue                414,836      34.01%   126,977       420          174,231        2.20     79,196       47,781
Mon LoiWr                282,042      31.93%    81,050       380          107,176        2.30     46,598       34,452
Mount                    213,104       30.57%    58,631      458           97,602        1.90     51,369        7,262
St Antoine               216,201      33.95%    66,060       539          116,532        2.18     53,455       12,605
Total                 1,388,108                407,635                                          279,432      128,203
CENTER
Beau Chemp               434,919       28.19%   110,343      470          204,412        2.25     90,850       19,494
Constance                285,833       30.27%    77,869      420          120,050        2.22     54,077       23,793
FUEL                     696,309      29.68%   185,998       380          264.597        2.35    112,595       73,403
Mon Deseit Alma          352,146       27.26%    86,395      450          158,466        2.18     72,691       13,705
Total                 1,769,207                460,606                                          330,212      130,395
SOUTH
Bel Ombre                184,080       30.40%    50,364      450           82,836        1.78     46,537        3,827
Britannla                219,840       23.97%    47,426      475          104.424        2.20     47,465          (39)
Highlands                254,310       27.95%    63,972      400          101,724        2.25     45,211       18,761
MonTresor                263,345       28.82%    68,306      380          100,071        2.20     45,487       22,820
RiChl En EAU             27i,644       28.66%    70,068      370          100,508        2.22     45,274       24,794
RoNe Belle               210,5S4       28.90%    54,765      465           97,908        2.22     44,103       10,663
Savannah                 303,267       27.17%    74,158      380          115,241        2.22     51,911       22,247
St Felix                 159,042       28.95%    41,438      450           71,569        1.78     40,207        1,231
Union St Aubln           293,905       27.40%    72,477      380          111,684        2.,5     47,525       24,952
Toita                 2,159,987                S42,975                                          413,719      129,255
MEDINE                   484,563       29.70%   129,524      366          177,350        2.20     80,614       48,910
mae.   mamma  amwe ,               eew-  eMMM                    =eS               :                  = ea=ec e= 
TOTAL                  5,801,865               1,540,740                                        1,103,977     436,763



-50-                                            Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
MAURIUS
suGAR ENEoY DEvELOPMT PRmoc
Tab 3: Regibol Pokate     Avaiabiity of 8gu
Began.                    Potential
Location of 22MW                             Available                  Electricity
Bagasse Cum Coal Plant                           (Tons)                    Export (M
NORTH - BeL&e Vue
Bagasse Used at Factory                            79,196                      30,094
Excess Bagasse at Factory                          47,781                      23,604
Imported Bagass.                                   80,422                      39,728
-Subtotal                                         207,399                      93,427
CWNTER - FUEL
Bagacsu Used at Factory                           122,595                      46,586
Excess Sagasse at Factory                          73,402                      36,261
Imported BSagasso                                  56,992                      28,154
Subtotal                                         252,989                     111,001
SOUTH - U m St Aubin
Sagas.o Used at Factory                            53,183                      20,210
Excess Sagassc at Factory                          19,294                       9,531
Imported Sagasso                                   81,483                      40,253
Subtotal                                         153.960                     69,993



- 51 -
Annox 4
Page 1 of 2
MAURITTUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Investments for Bagasse Energy Development 1992-97
1.   Based on the sugar industry's proposals for investnents in the development of bagasse-based energy
production, the following investment program has been endorsed by the Government's High Powered
Committee for Bagasse Energy Development:
Proposed Investments in Bagasse Energy Development 1992-97
($ million in 1991 prices)
Year
92     93     94      95     96      97     Total
Establishment of new power
plants at sugar factories
Union St. AubinlI/           4.4   11.0   6.6                           22.0
Belle Vue                    5.0   12.5   7.5                           25.0
Rehab./modernization of
existing power plants
at siuear factoay
F.U.E.L. 2/                  1.5   1.5   3.0   3.0                       9.0
Mon Tresor-Mon Desert        2.0   2.0                                   4.0
Improvements in steam                      3.0   3.0   4.0   5.0    5.0    20.0
genemtion and use at
sugar factories
TOTAL                        5.9  22.5  27.1   14.5   5.0    5.0    80.0
1/     Baseline cost estimate used for purposes of analysis of proposed project is $23.9 million.
21     Flaque United Enterprises Ld.



- 52 -
Page 2 of 2
Investments In New Power Plants
2.  Investments are envisaged at two factories, each with a capacity of 22MW to be commissioned
during 1994 and 1995 respectively. The two plants would be located at the Union St. Aubin sugar
factory in the southern region, and Bellevue sugar factory in the north. A third power plant, equally
of about 22MW capacity would be established in 1998 or 1999 to meet energy demand increases at
that time. The appropriate location of such a third plant would be determined on the basis of future
developments in the regional availability of incremental bagasse. The technical features of the
envisaged investments (applicable to the Union St. Aubin) are summarized in Annex 5.
3.  The choice of Union St. Aubin and Bellevue as regional power production centers within the
southern and northern regions respectively takes into account the following key factors:
(a)   First, low handling and transport costs of bagasse will be obtained by locating power
plants at factories which crush large quantities of cane (high ratio of bagasse available at
the mill-power site relative to the quantity imported from satellite suppliers) ad are
centrally placed in the region (minimize transport distances). Bellevue meets both criteria
for the northern region, with Union St. Aubin and Mon Tresor Mon Desert both
qualifying for the southern region. The latter factory proposes to invest in an expanded
continuing power production facility relying on its own surplus bagasse. All sugar
factories would need to obtain their coal from the main port area in Port Louis.
(b)  Second, incremental transmission costs would be minimized (Bellevue sugar factory is
located next to Central Electricity Board's circular 66KV line, for Union St Aubin a hook
up line over 3km is required). Third, accessibility to water of a quality required by the
power plant favors the choice of UJnion St. Aubin in the southern region.
Rehabllitation and Modernization of Existing Power Plants
6.  This would involve: (a) FUEL: immediate improvements in operating conditions including
electrificsAtion, and replacement of obsolete boilers without increasing at this stage the capacity of the
plant; and (b) Mon Tresor-Mon Desert: replacement of present 4MW turbo alternators by a 1OMW
turbo alternator unit coupled with the existing boiler.
Mill Modernization for Bagasse Saving
3.  Investments to improve steam generation and utilization efficiency at sugar factories will free up
bagasse from factory use for supply to power production. The estimated costs shown in table above
are based on proposals from individual sugar mills, as reviewed by the BEDP Technical Committee.
sedpsar.ax4gc
11106/91



- 53 -
A5u 
Page 1 of 3
MAURlllIS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Features of Bagasse-and-Coal Fired Power Plants
Introduction
1.    A sugar factory needs energy to drive the mechanical equipment used to extract the juice from
the cane, and thereafter to concentrate the juice in stages till the separation of the sugar crystals.
Traditionally, this energy is internally generated by the factory by burning bagasse, (a byproduct of
the sugarcane crushing process), in a boiler. The medium pressure steam generated is used to drive
the prime movers, and the low pressure exhaust from these is used to concentrate the juice. The
greater the difference between the boiler pressure and the process pressure, the greater is the amount
of power that c"t be generated.
2.    The steam from the boiler is also pardy passed through a turbine-alternator for the production
of electricity, primarily for in-house use. Depending on the working conditions in the factory, a part
of the energy production may become available for export to a national grid-known in Mauritius as
"a bien plaire" or intermittent energy production.
3.    Typically a sugar factory will select a boiler operating pressure and turbo-alternator capacity
just adequate for process steam and energy requirements for the plant. When there is an incentive to
generate surplus power for export, certain measures can be adopted by the sugar factories for
enhancing power production capacity for export to the grid on better than intermittent basis. These
vary in magnitude depending on the state of certainty of supply desired to be reached, but typically
involve the following: (a) modiflcations to the boiler to increase steam generating capacity and
pressure; (b) turbo-alternators of higher capacity, with provision for condensation of the steam in
part; and (c) improving thermal efficiency on the juice concentration process, thus economizing on
energy for in-house use. In Mauritius, three factories have so equipped themselves.
4.    Two of them (at Mon Tresor Mon Desert and Medine) provide continuous power during the
crop season of five months from July to November, through the installation of a condensing turbo-
alternator. The third, Flacq United Estates Ltd (FUEL) Sugar Factory, provides firm power
throughout the year by having a boiler which can use coal as the fuel during the off-season, while
handling bagasse during the season. Ihe factory has a condensing turbo-alternator of an installed
capacity of 21.7 MW, and during the crop season generates an exportable energy surplus of about 40
GWh from bagasse, and about an equivalent atmount from coal during the off-season.
5.    The Government of Mauritius has established a policy of maximizing the use of bagasse for
energy generation on a firm, year-round supply, basis. Given that bagasse can be made available for
energy generation, there is potential for setting up three more units of about 22 MW capacity each,
equipped with duel-fuel boilers for the burning of bagasse during the season and coal during the off-
season. The Bagasse Energy Program visualizes the setting up of the plants at Union Saint Aubin



- 54 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
Sugar Factory, and at Belle Vue Sugar Factory by 1994 and 1995, and another one possibly at
FUEL, by doubling its current capacity, at a later date. The project covers the proposed plant at the
Union St Aubin Sugar Factory. In order to achieve maximum technical efficiency in the process,
available excess bagasse is best used for energy generation in plants of this minimum size. Other
mills would concentrate on process efficiency improvements and saving bagasse for supply to the
three generating sites.
Current Process Configuration at the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory
6.    The factory has a crushing capacity of 110 tons of cane per hour (TCH) and an annual
average supply of about 294,000 tons of cane. The "campaign" period of crushing during the months
of July through November in a year would in consequence be for 2672 hours.
7.    The boiler capacity required for the sugar production alone is determined by the: (a) bagasse:
steam ratio, and (b) the steam required to process one ton of cane per hour. The levels achieved by
USA currently are 2.1 tonnes of steam per tonne of bagasse and 408 kg of steam per tonne of cane
per hour. The former will improve to 2.35 with the installation of a high pressure boiler; the latter is
optimum and will remain the same during the project period.
8.    The factory requires approximately 45 sonnes of steam per hour, generated by 19 tonnes of
bagasse per hour. With an hourly bagasse production of 27 tonnes, it has an excess of 8 tonnes per
hour, In an year, the total production of bagasse is 80,500 tonnes, of which 21,450 tonnes can be
diverted for power production exclusively, after allowing for start up use/loss of bagasse of 10%.
9.    The power station is currently served with a 4 MW turbine, essentially for the production of
in-house power.
Project Proposal
10.   In the proposed configuration, the main parameters will be as follows. These are based on a
prefeasibility study carried out for the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory as appraised by the Bank in
September 1991.
(a)    A total of approximately about 150,000 tonnes of bagasse will be used in a year. Of
this, 72,500 tonnes will be internally generated as now; the balance, or 77,500 tons,
will be supplied by satellite mills.
(b)   The bagasse:steam ratio will be 2.35, and the steam process requirements will
continue as now (see Attachment 1).
(c)    The boiler (Spreader-Stoker type) will be of a capacity of 110 tonnes per hour a 68
bar and 520 C, with auxiliaries as shown in Attachment 2. It will be a dual-fuel type,
capable of burning bagasse and coal. The turbo-alternator will be a pass-
outicondensing type, with a nominal capacity of 22 MW, complete with steam
turbine, condenser, speed reducing gear, control and distribution ranels and
instrumentation. The working conditions during the season will be set for about 65
percent passout, in combination for process steam at 2 bar and feed water heating at



- 55 -
Page 3 of 3
15 bar, and 35 percent condensation at 0.1 bar. The alternator output voltage will be
6.6 kv at 50 hz.
(d)    The energy generation efficiencies assumed are: 4.16 kg of steam per kwh in
condensation, 5.7 kg in extraction at 2 bar and 7.18 kg/kwh at 15 bar. With the mill
drives fully electrified, the entire internally generated quantity of bagasse is available
for cogeneration, of which the steam from about 51,000 tonnes will produce energy
during the extraction for process, and 21,500 during the bleeding for the feed water
heating. The steam from the balance of the 150,000 tonnes of bagasse from outstation
supply will be available for the remaining requirements for feed water heating and
condensation. The average output will be 463 kwh per tonne of bagasse or
approximately 69.4 GWHs during the crushing season.
(e)    At a plant factor of 90 percent, the total annual generation will be 134.4 OWhs gross.
This will require an additional production of about 65 GWhs from coal which at an
output of 1800 kwh per ton of coal would amount to the use of about 36,200 tonnes
of coal. The net export to the CEB, after allowing for in-house use and losses, Is
estimated to be 111 GWHs annually, from both bagasse and coal.
ucdpur.ax5Sc
11/06/91



- 56 -
Annex 5
Attachment I
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAGASSE AVAILABELITY AND USE AT UIMON ST AUBIN SUGAR FACTORY
Per Season     Per Hour
Total Ba2asse Available
Tons of Cane Crushed                           293,905           110
Tons of Bagasse per Ton of Cane                  0.274         0.274
Tons of Bagasse                                 80,530         30.14
Tons of Bagasse Used for Startup                 8,053          3.01
Tons of Bagasse Available for Use               72,477         27.13
Less: Bagasse Reauired to Produce Steam for use
b Suar Facto
Tons of Steam Required per Ton of Cane           0.408         0.408
Tons of Steam Required                         119,913         44.88
Tons of Steam Produced per Ton of Bagasse         2.35          2.35
Tons of Bagasse Required to Produce Steam
for Sugar Production                           51,027         19.09
Pquals: Excess Bagasse Available for Power Production
Tons of Excess Bagasse                          21,450          8.03
Source: Union St. Aubin Prefeasibility Study for Power Plant.
sedpsar.ax5gcatl
11/06/91



- 57 -
Annex 5
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAIN SPECIFICATIONS OF STEAM/ELECTRICITY GENERATING PLANT
AT UNION ST. AUBIN SUGAR FACTORY
1.    Boil  (Spreader/Stoker)
Capacity             1 11t/h
Pressure             68 bar @ 520(C (operating at superheater outlet)
Fuel                 Bagasse or coal
Complete with:
-     Bagasse feeders
-      Coal feeders
-     Travelling grate
-      Ash-handling system
- Fans and air ducts
Airheater and Economizer
Feed pumps, deaerator, water treatment, etc.
Refractories and cladding
- Air pollution control equipment
Instruments and control including monitoring, recorders, alarms, etc.
2.    Turbo-alternator set:
Of the passout/condensing type
-     Capacity 22MW with steam at 68 bar 5200C
-     Working conditions: (a) during crushing about 65% for extraction and 35%
for condensation; (b) off season: minimunt of 85% for condensation.
3.    Turbine
Multi-stage type complete with all regulating equipment, emergency overspeed
governor, self contained lubricating system, control panel with all panel-mounted
instruments, controls and ancillary equipment for safe operation of the turbine.
All other instruments directly mounted on the turbine e.g., pressure gauges,
thermometers, etc.



58 
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
CondensLr
Of a type to be quoted by bidders, but as a guide: surface type two-pass divided
water box. Set of Instruments to maintain the condenser performance.
Extraction pumps of adequate capacity.
4.    Altemato
Output voltage            6.6KV
Frequency    :     50Hz
Speed               1,500/3,000 r.p.m.
Complete with
ventilation/aircooling system
3 phase exiter
voltage regulator, etc.
5.    Electrical Equipment
-     One Alternator Panel comprising
-     One excitation/regulation panel
One set of low voltage generator protection devices
One set of indicators and alarms
One synchronizing device
-     One I IOV D.C. Battery Charger panel
-     One 400V distribution panel to feed boiler and turbo-generator auxiliaries
-     One 6.6KV 3-phase bus-bar Control Panel with circuit breakers for control of
-     6.6/22 or 66KV transformer
-     6.6/400V house transformer
sedpsar.ax5gcat2
11/06191



- 59 -
An_n~
Page 1 of 4
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Energy Pricing:
Calculation of Avoided Cost of a 24MW 2-Stroke Diesel Power Plant
Principle
1.    The determination of the economic price that is to be paid by the Central Electricity
Board (CEB) for a kwh of electricity exported to it by the sugar producer-power plant is
based on the economic cost that CEB would incur if it were to build and operate an
alternative power plant in its least cost expansion plan. CEB's forecasted electricity demand
requires the establishment of a 22MW power plant in 1994; given the economies of scale in
power production, the most efficient plant of this size is a 2-stroke diesel power plant. CEB
would add this plant to an already existing infrastructure base.
Plant Features
2.    The 2-stroke diesel plant with an installed capacity of 24MW, is expected to operate
6500 hours a year at 90 percent capacity utilization, to produce 140.4 Gwh of electricity.
The plant is expectel to have a life of 25 years.
Economic Avoided Costs
3.    The power plant has fixed and variable cost components. The canital costs of the
plant are estimated at MRs350 million for the imported plant and MRs78 million for
infrastructure, for a total of MRs428 million. To arrive at the annual capital costs, a capital
recovery factor of 0.18 is calculated using the formula:
(i/(l -(I /(I +i))^n)) x (I +i)
where i is the interest rate at 15.5 percent, n is the plant life (and term of the loan) of 25
years, with interest being paid for one year during construction. Annual fixed capital costs on
a kwh basis are calculated at MRsO.S6.
4.    Variable costs have two major components: operating costs and raw material costs.
Costs for peatons. maintenance and administration are assumed to be MRs 0.17 per kwh,
based on current system averages at CEB. Costs for the ijad raw material are based on the
year 2005 price for the crude oil FOB Gulf, assuming that the Heavy Sulphur Fuel Oil
required sells at a 25 percent discount to the crude. The year 2005 price was chosen because
it represents the long run expected price of diesel at the midpoint of the project period, thus
dampening the effect of short term price fluctuations. Freight is calculated at $21.00 per ton,



- 60 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
and insuranc at 0.075 percent of the cost plus freight. Handling in Mauritius is
approximated at $8.00 per ton. The total of these fixed and variable costs constitute the
economic avoided cost of MRs 1.18 per kwh in 1991 terms.
Financial Avoided Costs
5.    To convert the economic avoided cost to the financial avoided cost, taxes, duties and
profits are added. A gustoms d ly of MRs4.54 per gallon of diesel, or MRs 1,050.00 per ton
of diesel is charged in Mauritius. STC, the State Trading Corporation that imports diesel for
CEB, charges MRs692.00 per ton for handling, other duties and markup. Subtracting $ 8.00
or MRs126.00 per ton leaves a charge of MRs566.00 per ton for other duties and markup.
The financial avoided cost corresponding to the price of diesel in the year 2005 is MRsl.50
per kwh in 1991 terms.
sedpsar.ax6gc
11106/91



-61 -                                         Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
MAURMUS
SUGAR ENERGY DBVBLOIPN  FROJECr
Cekulatk  of Ec4xImic Avoided Cod
ofa 24MW 2-Strka Disel Power Pait
Net Output Produccd
Intalled Capacity In kwh                                                               24,000
Annual Hours of Operation                                                                6,500
Capacity Factor                                                                          90.0%
Net Ouput Gencrated in kwh                                                         140,400,000
MRupee           USDollar
Fixed Coma                                                                            (in 1991 constant terms)
Capital Cost                                                                       428,000,000       27,612,903
Capital Rcovery Factor over                      25 Years, at          15.5%              0.18             0.18
Annual Capital Costa                                                                78,769,586        5,081,909
Annual Capital Cota/kwh                                                                   0.56             0.04
Variable Costs
Raw Materials - Diesel                         2005 Price
Tons of Diesel/kwh Generated                                    0.000197
Tons of Diesel Needed                                             27,659
Cmde FOB Gulf at US5/bbl                    22.3 ,USS/T            156.1        66,921,850        4,317,539
Diesl FOB Gulf after Discount of                                   25.0%        50,191,387        3,238,154
Freight at US$/T                                                    21.0         9,002.Q39          580,835
Inuranoe at                                                       0.075%            44,396            2,864
Diesel CIF Mauritius                                                            59,238,722        3,821,853
Handling in Mauritius at USS/T                                       8.0         3,429,691          221,270
Cost of Diesel/kwh                                                                    0.45             0.03
Operations, Maintanence, Administration/kwh                                               0.17             0.01
Total Avoided Costs                                                                       1.18             0.08
Exchanpo Rate: MRupeea/USS                     15.5



- 62 -                                        Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
MAURIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVE UA )IMN  WROJlC
Cakulati  of Fouzanl Avoided Cost
ota 24MW 2-SLw& D;cla Pow"er FD
Net Output Produced
Installed Capacity In kwh                                                             24,000
Ania Hours of Operation                                                                6,500
Capacity Factor                                                                        90.0%
Net Ouput Generated in kwh                                                        140,400,000
MRupee          USDollar
Fixed Coca                                                                          (in 1991 constant terms)
Capital Colts                                                                     428,000,000      27,612,903
Capital Recovery Factor over                    25 Years, at          15.5%             0.18             0.18
Anuw  Capital Cosu                                                                78,769,586        5,081,909
Annual Capital Cosalrkwh                                                                0.56             0.04
Variable Costa
Raw Material - Diesel                         2005 Price
Tons of Diesellkwh Generated                                   0.000197
ToNa of Diesel Needed                                            27,659
Crude FOB Gulfat USSIbbl                   22.3 , USSf            IS6.1        66,921,850        4,317,539
Diesel FOB Gulf aftcr Discount of                                 25.0%        50,191,387        3,238,154
Freight at USSfT                                                   21.0         9,002,939         580.835
naranco *t                                                       0.075%            44,396           2,864
Diesel CIP Mauritius                                                           59,238,722        3,821,853
Handling In Mauritdus at USSIT                                      8.n         3,429,691         221,270
Customs Duty at USStT                                              67.7        29,041,740        1,873,661
Msrkup at USSIT                                                    36.5        15,654,881        1,009,992
Coot of Dselvkwh                                                                     0.76             0.05
__ __ ._ .*.__ ....... _. .~~~~~~~~~~~~.                  .......___.,_...... __.. _._ .....___ _._
Operationc, Malinanence, Adminlotrationlkwh                                             0.17             0.01
Total Avoided Coma                                                                       1.50            0.10
Exchane Rate: MRupea/USS                       15.5



- 63 -
Annex 7
Page I of 3
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational and Management Arrangements for BEDP Coordination
Government Policy Directives
1. The implementation of the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP) will be guided and
supported by Government policy directives. Such policy directives cover energy pricing, regulations
governing sale of electricity to the Central Electricity Board (CEB), fiscal policy measures impacting
the viability of BEDP investments, and environmental controls. Based on an evaluation of progress in
BEDP implementation relative to objectives and targets, the Government will through the Economic
Subcommittee of the Cabinet periodically review the policy framework and as appropriate undertake
revisions to this framework.
The DEDP Management Committee
2.    A Management Committee will oversee and coordinate the implementation of the
Government's action plan for bagasse energy development and ensure that the Government's policy
directives related to BEDP are followed. The Comnmittee will conistitute the operational mechanism
within Government through which to bring about effective integration of Government's policies
affecting the sugar and energy sectors.
3.    To this end, the Management Committee has been established with representatives from
relevant ministries, parastatal agencies and the private sector. Specithially, the membership of the
Committee comprises of representatives from the Mirnistry of Finance (Chairman), Ministries of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources, Economic Planning and Development, Energy.
Environment and Land Use, the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA), CEPB, and the Development Bank
of Mauritius. The industry would be represented by the Mauritius Sugar Producers Association, dte
Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture, the Joint Economic Committee, and the Mauritius Cooperative
Agricultural Federation. The Executive Director of the MSA would serve as the Committee's
Secretary.
4.    The Managenent Committee would carry out the following tasks:
(a)  plan and monitor the implementation of BEDP and Its lindividual project components,
evaluate progress in the implementation of the investment program, assess the impact of
government policy mieasures, and advise the Gvernment on policy formulation related
to BEDP, particularly on fiscal measures iinpacting the viability of BEOP investments;
(b)  mianage the 'rechnology and Manpower Development Comnonent of BEDP, involving
the following tasks:



- 64 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
(i)    administration of funds to be used for technology development and training;
(ii)    approval of annual work programs and disbursement of funds for inidividual
subprojects for technology and manpower development;
(iii)   coordination and organization of programs for training of industry manpower
in skills required to support the implementation of BEDP, and fund such
programs according to established criteria;
(iv)   review of progress in the implementation of individual subprojects; and
(v)    review and disseminate of results of subprojects (see (e) below);
(c)  as required arrange for technical expertise in sugar and energy technology to support
the technical app-aisal of individual investment projects involving power plants and mill
modernization for bagasse saving; and
(d)  assist the Central Electricity Board and individual power producecs to come to
contractual agreements on power purchase which reflect the Government's pclicy
directives regarding such contracts;
(e)  serve as the focal point for dissemination of information and exchange of experiences
related to the implementation of BEDP; organize annual worKshops to review progress
in 1EDP implementation, involving the industry, the public sector, local and
international financing institutions, and local and international agencies concerned with
research in the areas of sugar and energy production or environmental management.
(f)   participate as requirod in negotiations with international lending institutions, establish
specific criteria for the utilization of funds made available from lenders for BEDP, and
certify the eligibility of individual BEDP projects for funding under financial
interimediation arrangements, as such arrangements may be agreed upon with
international lending agencies.
The 8EDP Secelariat and Coordination Unit
5.    The MSA has been appointed to serve as the Secretariat for the BEDP Management
Committee. As such it will assist the Committee in undertaking the responsibilities outlined above.
To enable MSA to undertake this task its organizational structure and staff resources need to be
strengthened.
6.    To this end, a BED1P Coordination llnit (CU) will be established In MSA, to be headed by a
suitably qualified BEDP Coordinator reporting directly to the Executive Director of MSA (Terms of
Reference in Attachment 2) and with its own administrative support services. Technical staff from
MSA's various departments would be seconded to CU on a part time basis. Such secondment will
necessitate the strengthening of the staff of the MSA in its techinical and financial departments to
ensure that progress in the regular work program of MSA is not impaired.



- 65 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
7.    Similarly, suitable arrangements for secondment to CU of technical staff from other
Government agencies, including the Ministries of Energy, Environment and Land Use, and
Agriculture, and the CEB need to be secured. Furthermore, the BEDP Coordinator is expected to
work out appropriate liaison modalities with the Bank of Mauritius, local flnancing institutions, the
MSIRI, and the sugar industry.
Environmental Monitoring Cell
8.    An Environmental Monitoring Cell (EMC) will be established within the BEDP Coordination
Unit. It will consist of a principal environmentally trained professional (Head, EMU) and two
technical assistants. This cell will be staffed with consultants or fixed term employees and will not
form part of the regular establishment of MSA. Its tasks are to:
(a)  monitor the implementation by bagasse-and-coal fired power plants of agreed mitigation
plans, and as appropriate advise on any modifications that may be appropriate to such
plans to ensure that the environmental objectives underpinning such plans are not
jeopardized; and to
(b)  establish and implement a program for monitoring of enviromnental discharges to the
air, water and land by the sugar industry.
9.    The justification for establishing EMC in MSA at this stage is two-fold. First, the national
environmental monitoring program is presently being planned, and tihe detailed organizational
arrangements and delegation of responsibilities for monitoring will evolve over time. In the
meantime, environmental monitoring of BEDP implementation needs to proceed. Second, the
national monitoring program needs to be based on emission standards. These standards in turn need
to be determined partly with reference to information on present emission levels. MSA is best
positioned to timely gather such information in respect of the sugar industry. In the longer term, the
role and functions of the EMC is expected be formally integrated with the organizational structure of
the national environmental monitoring program.
10.   The establishment of EMC and the 'rogramming of its work would be done in strict
coordination and agreement with the Department of Environment of the Ministry of Environment and
Quality of Life. In particular, such coordination will consider the need to integrate the work program
of EMC with the proposed program of the Department of Environment (DOE) to develop a national
monitcring program. Annual work programs of the EMC would be established and agreed with the
DOE. Progress reports on the implementation of the work programs will be reviewed with DOE
prior to submission to the Management Committee. All efforts will be made to avoid overlapping in
responsibilities and duplication of resources. The possibilities for EMC staff to use monitoring
equipment presently being acquired for establishing a national monitoring program will be explored.
The Terms of Reference of the Head, EMC, are in Attachment 2.
nedpnr.9x7gc
11106/91



- 66 -
Annx 7
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3
MAURlTIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for BEDP Coordinator
Introduction
1.     The Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA) serves as the Secretariat for the Management
Committee (MC) of the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP). The BEDP Coordinator
(hereinafter referred to as the Coordinator) will head a BEDP Coordination Unit in the MSA under
the overall guidance of the Executive Director. The unit will effectively serve to assist the MC in its
responsibilities which are to
(a)    plan and monitor BEDP implementation and its individual project components,
evaluate progress in the investment program, assess impact of government policy
R   measures, and advise the Government on policy formulation related to BEDP,
particularly on fiscal measures impacting the viability of BEDP investments;
(b)    manage the Technology and Manpower Development Component of BEDP,
involving the following tasks:
(i)    administration of funds to be used for technology development and
training;
(ii)    approval of annual work programs and disbursement of funds for
individual subprojects for technology and manpower development;
(iii)    coordination and organization of programs for training of industry
manpower in skills required to support the implementation of BEDP, and
fund such programs according to established criteria;
(iv)    review of progress in the implementation of individual subprojects; and
(v)    review and disseminate of results of subprojects (see (e) below);
(c)   as required arrange for technical expertise in sugar and energy technology to support
the technical appraisal of individual investment projects Involving power plants and
mill modernization for bagasse saving;



- 67 -
Annex 7
Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
(d)    assist the Central Electricity Board and individual power producers to come to
contractual agreements on power purchase which reflect the Government's policy
directives regarding such contracts;
(e)    serve as the focal point for dissemination of information and exchange of
experiences related to the implementation of BEDP; organize annual workshops to
review progress in BEDP implementation, involving the industry, the public sector,
local and international financing institutions, and local and international agencies
concerned with research in the areas of sugar and energy production or
environmental management; and
(f)    participate as required in negotiations with international lending institutions, establish
specific criteria for the utilization of funds availed from lenders for BEDP, and
certify the eligibility of individual BEDP projects for funding under financial
intermediation arrangements, as such arrangements may be agreed upon with
international lending agencies.
Coordinator's Responsibilities
2.      The Coordinator will be responsible directly to the 13rYcutive Director of MSA. The latter
serves as Secretary on the MC, and the Coordinator's role is to assist the Executive Director in that
capacity.
3.      Hence, his main day to day responsibilities will be to:
(a)    establish a work program for CU based on MC's tasks as shown above;
(b)    mobilize human and other resources required to carry out the tasks within the
established work program; such resources being accessible within the CU, on
secondment from MSA's other departments to CU, on secondment to CU from other
Government Ministries;
(c)    program, coordinate, and oversee the work of CU staff and seconded staff; and
(d)    report to the Executive Director on the output and progress of CU's work program,
as agreed with the Director.
(e)   liaise with the Sugar Technology Advisory Committee of the MSA as required.
QuallGcations
4.      The Coordinator position is a full-time position. It will be filled by a person who has the
ability to effectively organize CU's work program and timely deliver its outputs to the Executive
Director. The person should have the following qualifications:
(a)   formal training in either financial management, public administration, (or possibly
sugar technology);



- 68 -
Annex 7
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
(b)    demonstrated management experience at senior level within the public sector or
industry;
(c)    ability to work in a multi-disciplinary environment and effectively interact with
officials across agency lines;
(d)    excellent oral and written communication skills.



- 69 -
Annex 7
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Head, Environmental Monitoring Cell
Introduction
1.    The Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA) serves as the Secretariat for the Management
Committee of the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP). To enable MSA to execute
this responsibility, a BEDP Coordination Unit will be established in MSA.
2.    One of the responsibilities of the Management Committee is to ensure that
Government policy directives regarding bagasse energy development are implemented. Such
directives relate inter "ij to environmental monitoring of BEDP implementation. Hence, an
E-nvironumental Monitoring Unit (EMC) will be established within the BEDP Coordination
Unit.
3.    The objectives for the EMC are to:
(a)    monitor the implementation by bagasse-and-coal fired power plants of agreed
mitigation plans, and as appropriate advise on any modifications that may be
appropriate to such plans to ensure that the environmental objectives
underpinning such plans are not jeopardized;
(b)    based on directives from the Department of Environment (DOE) and under the
guidance of DOE establish and implement a program for monitoring of
environmental discharges to the air, water and land by the sugar industry, and
by doing so facilitate the continuing review of appropriate air emission
standards required under the National Environmental Action Plan.
4.    The EMC will be headed by a professionally trained environmental specialist, as a
long term consultant, and two technical assistants.
Responsibilities of llead, EMC
S.    The Head, EMC, will report through the BEDP Coordinator to the Executive Director
of MSA, the latter serving as the Secretary to the BEDP Management Committee. The
Head's overall responsibility is to ensure that the objectives for EMC as set out above
(para. 3) are effectively accomplished.



- 70 -
Annex 7
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
6.    The Head EMC, will be responsible for establishing and implementing EMC's work
programs and associated budgets with reference to three general areas, namely:
(a)    monitoring of the implementation by power plants of mitigation plans agreed
to ensure minimum levels of emissions and effluent, covering: (i) emissions of
particulate and gases; (ii) water quality; (iii) solid waste disposal; and (iv)
occupational safety and health;
(b)    air monitoring, involving stack sampling (using standard isokinetic
procedures) and ambient air quality (using high volume sampling) to be
performed primarily for particulate matter; such monitoring to cover the
appropriate sampling procedures the entire sugar milling sector; and
(c)   integration of the findings under (a) and (b) into the implementation of the
National Environmental Action Plan, particularity as it relates to the
establishment of emission standards.
7.    The Head, EMC, will carry out his/her responsibilities in close coordination and
liaison with the Department of Environment (DOE) within the Ministry of Environment and
Quality of Life. Work programs and associated budgets shall be agreed with the DOE prior
to submission to the BEDP Management Committee. Similarly, progress reports shall be
reviewed with DOE prior to presentation to the Management Committee.
Qualirications
8.    Tle Head, EMC, is a full time position. It will be filled by a person with the
following qualifications:
(a)   formal training in environmental science, chemical ecology, atmospheric
science or water pollution control;
(b)    demonstrated experience in air and water sampling techniques, and chemical
analysis of pollutants;
(c)    ability to work in a multi-disciplinary environment and effectively interact
with officials across agency lines.
wdpuar.x7gc.at2
11106191



- 71 -
Annex 8
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary Tables
Table No.
1.    Project Components by Year
2.    Summary Accounts
3.    Summary Accounts by Year (including contingencies)
4.    Inflation and Foreign Exchange Rates used for Project Cost Estimates.



PIAURI I IUS
SUGAR (StfIrG?I O4L01O14NI PFowrtl
Project Cponents by Tear
lotals Incltding Contingencies                                       bolois lnluding Contingencies
MRs  000I                                                            4USS '000l
9;r9:     92193      93/94     94195      95/96     96197    total .      SI2  92/93    93;94    94/95   95/96   9S697   lotal
:::::::: :^::: ::::::::: ::::=:::: :::: : ::r : . :7 :::::: :::::::: ::: ::::: ::::::: ::::::: ::::::: :::::::
S. ESI1S1     Niltl OF 93R  PlIAJ
............................
I  INGMEEINS  SERVICES                                                    i3,541 5   7,766.0   6.444. 1               -                  29.75t 6    Oct 1   451.5    469                              -  1.761. 1
2. 4SlmUCIlM  of PaP FIni                                                        -  71.389 8 204.8299  91s 315.9                       467.536s          - 9.964 S 11,379 4 4,989. 9                    26.333.9
3 UUGSSE IRUSf398S3                                                               *         -  5.445.?   2876.2   370251.                 11.34? 8                  .    302.5   157 2   163 3         -    f730
Sib-lotb) ESIiSllMNI CF PM1(3 PLAN?                                          13,541.5 279.155 8 213.719 7 94. 192.0   3.021.0             - 508.6300    841. t 10.416.0 12.151 t 6.47 41    l63 3         - 28.718.6
s       flloE3   13WI3115ill  I13ltC1                                                - 54.5205  59.228.0  83. 349.7 109. 542.5 114.2039 420. 844.6               3.t698.  3,290.4 4.5S4.65.921.26.173.2 23. 109 3
C. 1E101O1000 AND iUvt1ER DEVELOPFLUI
.......... ........................... ...........
1. 8*15551 13i   i3l 8no IECNh IDiGT DEVIlO11UhIl                                     2.505 6          -                                      0.505.      -    445.1                          -        -    U45 7
2. *smNass 1315FN  1E 00E14DH1 DE0O1P9ENI                                    541.7  $3.860.6  10.874 4            -                       25.276 7     33.6    805.8    604.1         -       -        -  1.4436
3  IRAI3ING PROGW*  iOS PKED  PtAN? OPfRAIINS                                722. 2   2,344 8   1.569.0                                    4.636 0     44 9    136 3      87.2                         -    265 4
S.b-T0? oEOimOlTi AND  alupomER DEvEIOFHr4N;                                    .263 9  48.73;.0  32.443 4                                   32.418 3     78.5  4 087. 8    696 3                            3.857 7
D  05P P 2Ru*  NU4CEAGI8EU1 3D i.CC0R1  4iON
............................ ............................ ...... 
t SDPP3RI O lEOP 0D19a3FIN 4AD fuvlimRfhir 111141102RI3G US15rs          1.034 I  5.249.9   4.421 9   4.0199   4.222 0          839 3  19.753 1    64 2    303 3    24s 7   219 7   228.2    45 4  1. 30f 4
2. INSIIIUIIOiit SUPPDRI 10 CiiR18  EIlCIRICtIw  BOARD                           -  2.204.8   4.029 0                                     6.233 8              148.2    223. 8       -                -    352 0
,......... ........  -.. . ... -  .....     ..... ...... ........ .........     .. 
St-alS8l 82  PROG*  3NAGE*I0 NI AND 0R01iA3810r                              1.034 1   7.420. 7   8.450 9   4.019 9   4.2220        639 3  27. 986 Y     64 2    431.4    469.5   219 7   228 2    45.4  1.458.4
total P00E10  c1sis                                                             15.839 5 259.808.0 298,842.0  81.2551 7 116785.5  115.043 1 987.879 8    983 8 45. 105.1 16.602 3 9.92  4 6.312.7 6.218 5 55.143.9
Januar  27. 1-92  10 IS
ID
D X
'-'0



IRAURITIUS
SUrIAR EIIERGT DEVLtOPRENT PROJECT
SUMARY ACCOUNTIS cost SUiINARy
IRS 10001                                          fuss 1000)
2 total                                           2 total
I Foreign  eass                                     f oreign  ease
tocal    Foreign   Total    Tachange   Costs    tocal   foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIl WORKS ND UltITIES                I1. 154 5   B. 121. 5  19. 286. 0      42        3      720.3    524.0  1,244.3           42        3
8. EQUIMI?Elfl 1I0 NA1RIAt                154. 620.8a 453. 502.2 608. 123.0       75       8?   9. 975.5 29. 258. 2 39. 233. 7       75       87
C. VEHIICLES A110 IRAUSPRIIR  EQUIMMtI         905.1   8.9$2.3   9. 870. 4         91         I      58. 6    578 2    636.8          91        I
0. TECINICAt ASSISIANCE                      2. 535. 0  33. 700.9  36. 535.9       92        5      182 9  2. 174. 3  2.357 2         9?        5
E. TRAINIIIG                                 1. 162 5   9. 517. 0  10.679 5        89        2       75. 0    614. 0    659.0         89        2
Total IN1VESTMEN1T COSTS                      170. 590.93 513. 803. 9 684. 494.8      75       98  11.012 3 33. 148 6 44. 161. 0         75       98
Physical Conlingencies                      17. 069. t 50. 374. I 67.443.1I        75       10   1.101 2  3.249 9  4.351 2            75       10
Price Contingencies                         59. 347.?2 150. 929.3 2.20. 276.5      73       32   1. 595. 7  4. 153. 6  5. 749. 3      7?       13
total IRCtUIDING CONT INGENCIES               24?. 107.1 I 25. 107. 3 972.214. 4      75      140  13. 709. 2 40. 55?._2 54. 261.4       25      121t
It. RECURRENT COSIS
A  IN1CRERINTI.T  WORK CAPITAL             9. 710.5         -   9.718 5                    I     627. 0              627. 0                   1
8. SADNI  SUPPORI SERIVICES                 1. 240. 0        - 1.240 0             -        0       go. 0              80 0                   0
C. ILIONANCrS                                480.5          -      480.5          -        0       31.0               31.0                   0
Total RICIJRREN1  COSIS                        St. 439. 0            11.439 0          -        2      738.0               738.0                   2
Physical Contingencies                       l. 143. 9             1. 143 9          -       0       73 8         -      73 8                  0
Price Contingemcies                          3. 082. 4             3.082.4                   0       707I                70. 7                 0
lolal INCLUIJONG CONITINIGENCIES               15. 565.3             15. 665 3                  2      882.5              882.5                    2
?Dlat BISEliNE COSTS                           182.129 9 513.803 9 695.933 8            74     100  II. 750. 3 33. 148 6 44.899 0         74      t00
Physical Contingencies                       18. 213.0  50.374. I  68.587 0         73       10   I. 175. 0  3.249 9  4.425 0          73       10
Price Contingencites                         6?. 429. 6 160. 929.3 223, 359.0       72       32   3.5656. 4  4. 153 6  5.820 0         71       13
total PROJECT COSTS                            25?. 77? 5 725. 107 3 987. 879 8        73      147  14.591 7 40.557 2 55. 143 9           74      123
I-ib
I- (
t( oW



NAURI IIUS
SUGAR ENERGY OEVELOPNEHI PROJfCI
Suimary Accounts by Year
totals Including Contingences                                            totals Including Contingencies
IRS '0001                                                               (USS ' 0001
9f/92      92/93      93/94       94/95      95/96      96(97    Total        91(92  97/93    93394    94/95   95/96   96197    total
I  INVESTENNT COSTS
a  CiVil WORKS AND UtIIITIES                         -   6.547. 1  17.260 9   2.864 5                         -  26,672. 6             380 6    958 9   155 5           -           1.496. I
B  EOQIPENTI AND NAOERItI                        90.3 230,443 0 244. 15  I 171,801.0 109.542 5 IJ4.203 9 870.238 8    5 6 13. 397.9 13.564. 3 9,388.0 5.921.2 6,9 73.2 48.450 2
C. VEHICLES AND IRANSPORT EQUIPMENT             541. 7   2.144 7   5.445.7   2.876. 2   3.021 0               -  14.029 2   33.6       124 7    302 5    157 2   163.3           -    78. 3
D. TECHNICA[ ASSISIANCE                      13.943.7   11.579 3  12.755.4   3,789.5   3.980. 1          839.3  46.887 3  866.1    673.2    108 6   207 1   215 t    45 4  2.715.5
E. IRAIRING                                   1.263 9   4. 448.5   8.974.2             -          -              14. 386 6   78.5    241 2    498.6                     -             818.3
-      - -  -     - - - -    - .. ....     .... .. ..  .     ...... ...     .. .... ... .    .....     .... ....     .     . ..   - .    .     ..  -. -..     ..... ..     ..  . .....
Total INVESTRENT COSTS                          tS.839.5 254.862 7 288.594.3 18t,331.3 116,543.6 115.043 1 972.214.4  983.8 14,817. 6 16.033 0 9.908 8 6.299 7 6.218.5 54.2261 4
:: ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~  ~   -  - -    ---------: ---------   --:------- 
It  RECURRENH  COSTSI
A  INCRHENENTAI WORN CAPITAL                        -   4. t90. 6   9. 287 7          -          -          -  13.278 3         -    243 6    504 9           *                      748 5
8.  ONtIN  SUPPORT SERVICES                         -     534 2       725 3      230 4      241.9            -   1.731 7               31 1      40 3    12 6      13 1         -      970
C  aIlGCMIHCES                                            220.6      434.8                       -                 6 554                2. 8     24 2                                  37 0
Total RECUIRRENT COSTS                                      4.945.3  40.247 7        230 4       241.9              15, 665 3             287 5    569 3    12 6        13 1              882 S
z  2                 .  .   .  . .  .          -  - -  -  -  -  - -    .  .... ........
Total PROJECT COSTS                              15.839 5 259.608 0 298.842 0 181.561 7 416.785 5 115.043 1 987,879.8  983 8 15, 105. 1 16.602.3 9.971 4 6.312 76.218 555. 143 9
.        . . . .       . . . .       . . . .       . . . .        . . . .       . . . .      . . . .      . . . .       . . . .       . . . .       . . . .       . . . .       . . . .       . . . .       . . ..:     .   .  .  . .  . .  .  . .    .
January 27. 2992 10: I5
t  (X
O  00



- 75 -
Annex E
Table 4
MAURITWS
BAGASSE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Inflation and Foreign Exchange Rates Used for Project Cost Estimates
. Inflation Rates E%}                    Exchange Rate
Project Year               Local "             Foreign 21           Rupees per US$ 3
1991U92                    12.0%               3.9%                        16.1
1992/93                    10.0%               3.9%                        17.2
1993/94                    7.0%                3.9%                        18.0
1994195                    5.0%                3.9%                        18.3
1995/96                    5.0%                3.9%                        18.5
"World Bank Estimates
v Based on OMS Bank Operational Directive 6.50 dated May 30, 1991
3' Constant Purchasing Parity Exchange Rate
co



iNRITItU
SW  anc E  I 3ELVFPT SMCT
Estimeted Schedule of Disbursements
Cin USS million)
IBRD                  Disbursemenm.s    Cuwulative    Disbursements    Cwmztative          Tjtal           Total          Project
FiscaE Tear                IBRD       Disbursements         GET        Disbursements   Disbursements    Cumulative        Profile
IBRO                            GET                        Disbursements        (X)
FT 1993
December 31. 1992        1.03            1.03            0.14            0.14             1.17            1.17            6.4
June 30, 1993            1.03            2.06            0.76            0.90             1.79            Z.96            16.2
FT 1994
December 31, 1993        1.07            3.13            0.76             1.66            1.83            4.79            26.2
June 30, 1994            1.07            4.20            0.58            2.24             1.65           6.44            35.2
FY 1995
December 31, 1994        1.48            5.68            0.58             2.82            2.06            8.50            46.4                      1
June 30, 1995            1.48            7.16            0.11            2.93             1.59           10.09           55.1                      -i
FY 1996
December 31, 1995        1.92             9.08           0.11            3.04             2.03           '2.12            66.2
June 30, 1996            1.92            11.00           0.11            3.15            2.03            14.15            79.2
FY 1997
December 31. 1996        2.00            13.00           0.11            3.26             2.11           16.26            88.8
June 30, 1997            2.00            15.00           0.04            3.30             2.04           18.30           100.00
Expected date of Loan/Grant Signing               ApriL 30, 1992
Expected date of Loan/Grant Effectiveness         June 30, 1992
Expected Corpletion Date                          December 31, 1996
Expected Closing Date                             June 30, 1997
(0



- 77
Annex 10
Page I of 11
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technology and Staff Development
Part A. The Biomass Energy Technology Study
Background
1.      Sugarcane biomass consists of four distinct fractions: the underground rhizome and roots
facilitate the development of the ra'.oons; the stalk free of the top and leaves is the millable cane
processed for sugar and bagasse; the green inmmature cane top and leaves removed from the cane
during harvest is left in the field; and the dead and dry leaves, known as trash, are also left in the
field. Except for a small portion used as cattle feed, the cane tops, leaves and trash (hereinafter
referred to as cane residue) remain a generally unexploited resource.
2.     It has been established that cane residue is almost equivalent to bagasse in terms of available
tonnage and energy value at about 4500 kcal/kg (8100 BTU/lb). The potential use of cane residue
for energy outweighs that of bagasse; unlike bagasse which is used in the sugar production process,
the entire quantity of cane residue Is available for use in energy production.
3.     A number of issues have to be resolved prior to the commercial exploitation of cane residue,
such as its harvesting and transport, enviromnental aspects, storage, boiler design, an i fuel mix. In
recent years important research has focused on these Issues under the Biomass Energy Systems and
Technology Project, sponsored by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
and covering the sugar Industry in Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Janiaica, Dominican Republic, and Thailand.
South Africa has been engaged in similar researuc, and Mauritius has made some preliminary trial
experiments on a small scale.
4.     The Government of Mauritius and the sugar industry have jointly agreed under the Bagasse
Energy Development Program (BEDIP) that the coverage of research on sugar cane biomass utilization
be expanided. 1J/ In so doing the research program should draw on lessons learnt from experiments
undertaken in other countries, and help to adapt available technologies to the Mauritian context.
Summary of Technological Research
5.     Research has concentrated on the harvesting and storage of cane residue, an important issue
due to the large biomass involved. Historically, the cane industry has relied on conventional
agricultural harvesting machinery. Experiments in the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico have
.I/   High Powered Committee Report on Bagasse Energy Development, dated August 1991
(Annex XIV).



- 78 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 11
established that conventional foraging systems (hay rakes pulled by 70 HP tractors, forage harvester
HP tractor and a chopper and blower) are technically and economically viable, but modifications are
needed to suit local conditions. Regarding storage, required to assure year round firm supply of cane
residues, recent experiments in Thailand proved both round and rectangular baling to be economical
coilpared to the cost of oil. The experience in the Philippines proved that while the baling per se
was successful, the experiment failed because there was no equipment to chop and shred the cane
trash to feed the boilers properly. A main conclusion emerging out of these adaptive trials is that the
optimal choice for a country will depend more on costs of labor and capital, size and configuration of
the holdings and ability to service equipment than on technical feasibility.
6.     The agronomic impact of removing trash from the cane field needs further research. Trash
facilitates fertilization and irrigation, suppresses weed groNtl and soil erosion, conserves soil
moisture in dry areas, and through decomposition adds to the jieneral fertility of the soil.
Experiments in Puerto Rico suggest that 30 percent to 50 percent of the cane residues need to be left
in the field to maintain the organic content of the soil. The critical levels of residue retention for
fertilization purposes needs to be established on an individual country basis on the basis of estimates
of organic loss impact and costs of remediation.
7.     The design of the process of converting cane residues to energy has to address several issues.
Two key issues are: (a) the separation of field contaminants (stones, dirt, metal pieces) in the field as
well as in the plant; and (b) the design of the boiler to accommodate bagasse as well as cane residues.
The USAID sponsored project (para. 3) found that while cane field residues can generally be burned
hi bagasse boilers without significant boiler modifications, mixing fuels posed problems. While a
bagasse to residue mix of 6:1 created no problem in burning, a ratio of 1.2:1 created instability in the
boiler.
Recent Expertiments In Mauritius
8.     Small scale laboratory and plant trials have been conducted in Mauritius by the University of
Mauritius and the Sugar Technolugy Department of the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA) in
collaboration with private sector sugar mills. The first factory scale trial was held in the Highlands
Sugar Estate, where about 15 tons of cane residues were shredded and fed into the mill tandems. The
juice fraction and the fibrous portion were analyzed for characteristics, and the latter, mixed with
bagasse, was burnt successfully in the boiler. The juice portion was analyzed for brix and pol, and
the fibrous material for moisture content and calorific value. Similar experiments were repeated in
two other estates, Medine and Beau Plan, with increasing quantities of cane residues (50 and 150
tons). The analysis of the fractions gave varying results, particularly as regards the moisture content,
reflecting varietal and geographic differences.
The Proposed Biomass Energy Technology Study
9.     Against the background of research in Mauritius and elsewhere, it is proposed to expand the
scope of research for fuller experimentation on the most effective way of utilizing this biomass
resource in Mauritius. In particular, it is proposed to combine the experimental approach of the
USAID project with that of the South African research program, by harvesting the whole cane, that is
without the separation of top and leaves, and feeding it to the milling tandem. If successful, this
would solve the problem of harvest and transport. However, careful experimentation is required to
study the effect on sugar production, boiler efficiency (and design), and field agronomy.



79 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 11
10.    Study Objective and Main Features. The overall objective of the study is to determine the
technical, financial and economic feasibility of utilizing cane residues other than bagasse for power
production. The main components of the study to be conducted over an 18 month period, will
therefore be to:
(a)   assess the available cane residue resource base for a variety of field conditions;
(b)   determine the productivity of alternative systems for recovering residues form the
cane field, and evaluate the comparative economics of baling and transport of residue
versus whole cane;
(c)   assess the feasibility of alternative in factory residue handling systems required at the
factory, for preparation of the residue and use in boiler;
(d)   the agronomic effect of removal of the residue from the fields; and
(e)   evaluate the effects of alternative systenis for utilizing residue in the mill on the
sucrose and energy balances.
11.    The study will focus on the evaluation of two alternate methods of handling the biomass.
Method A will involve harvesting and transport of the whole cane to the factory, that is without the
cane residues beWag separated and left in the field. At the factory, the experimental processing of the
residue will be done in two streams: (a) separation of residue from the cane stalk, and after minimal
shredding and homogenization feeding it to the boiler, with the cane stalks processed in the traditional
manner through the milling tandem for sucrose recovery; (b) processing of whole cane in the milling
tandem, and the combined cane residue and bagasse mass will be fed to the boiler. Under Method
B, the cane will be harvested in the traditional manner that is with the cane tops leaves and trash
separated from the cane stalk and left in the field. These field residues will be baled, loaded, and
transported to the factory 3 to 5 days after the cane harvest, and fed to the boiler following the same
procedures that would be applied to cane residue under Method A.
12.    Approximately one third of all cane fields in Mauritius are burnt before harvest, either to
facilitate manual harvesting or to facilitate land preparation prior to replanting following the last cane
ratoon. The evaluation of the two handling methods will therefore consider the impact of burning vs.
non-burning of cane fields prior to harvest.
13.     Study Tasks. Tne study will involve the following tasks as grouped in field experiments,
factory trials, and overall feasibility evaluation and final report preparation:
14.    The tasks related to in-field experiments include the following:
(a)   assessment of the mechanical and/or manual cane cutter output;
(b)   raking and windowing of the trash--local adaptations necessary to minimize
the presence of contaminants;
(c)   cane loader output: experimental trials with whole stalk and chopped cane;



- 80 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 11
(d)   payload of the cane transport systems;
(e)   evaluation of agronomic impact of alternative cane residue recovery systems: soil
nutrient status, weed control, soil conservation, moisture retention, soil physical
properties etc; determination of the minimum level of residues to be left in the field,
and the consequential maximum amount of cane residue available on an average per
hectare for exploitation. and
()    assessment of alternative systems for baling of cane residue: rectangular vs. round
bales.
15.    The tasks related to in-factory trials include the following:
(a)   evaluation of the cane unloading, preparation and milling handling systems;
(b)   assessment of the quality (moisture, pol), calorific value, and combustion
characteristics of the bagasse-cane residue bio-fuel mix in different proportions;
(c)   the effect on boiler performance and stability of different fuel mixes;
(d)   assessment of the quality and quantity of juice and its processing characteristics in
relation to sucrose recovery; and
(e)   evaluation of alternative handling methods on the ultimate sucrose and energy
balances.
16.    The overall feasibility assessment, building on the findings under above tasks, will involve
(a)   a co.m,parative cost-benefit analysis of alternative residue handling and processing
systems, and recommendations for implementation of preferred system;
X)   based on projections of operating and investment costs for the preferred system
analyses the financial rate of returns to proposed investments;
(c)   evaluate the economic costs and benefits of proposals for cane residue utilization for
power production relative to those for thermal power production using fossil fuels;
and
(d)   evaluate the environmental impact of the proposed cane residue utilization and
handling methods.
17.     Costs and Financing. The cost of the study is estimated to be US$ 1.4 M, including
physical and price contingencies, of which US$0.6 M will be foreign exchange costs and US$0.9 M
in local costs. These costs cover: (a) equipment and vehicles (US$0.9 M); (b) study visit and
expenditures for the International Workshop (US$0.3 M); (c) consultant services (US$0.1 M); and
(d) minor civil works, administrative services and Study Team allowances (ITS$0. I M). It is expected
that funding for the study would come as a grant from the Global Environment Facility (GEF).



- 81 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 11
18.    Study Organization and Implementation. The experiments will be undertaken at four
different factories with cane from different agronomic and agro-climatic conditions: Bell Vue ( North;
drought prone), Union St. Aubin (South; wet and cyclone prone), FUEL (East) and Mon Desert Alma
(Central). The experiments will spread over three stages. First, a one day trial run will be made in
each factory in each month during July-September 1992. Second, a continuous 15 day trial run will
be made in the UStA sugar factory. At these first two stages, the experiments will be restricted to the
comparative evaluation of processing whole cane in the mill as against cane without the top and trash.
Third, a pilot handling system will be installed at the UStA sugar factory to separate the residue from
the millable cane, and to shred and convey the latter to the boiler on an experimental scale for a four-
month trial during August-November 1993. Raking, baling, loading and transport of the field
residues, in the case of traditionally harvested cane, will be studied.
19.    The study will be conducted under the supervision of the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA),
in association with the University of Mauritius, Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIRI),
and the four private sector factories concerned. The Head of the Sugar Technology Department of
the MSA will be the leader of a multi-disciplinary team that will be drawn from the University,
MSIRI, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Energy, the
Ministry of Labour, and the sugar industry. The study team will consist of a total of twelve persons:
Head MSA's Sugar Technology Department (Team Leader), research assistants (2 each from MSIRI
and the University), sugar process managers (one from each of the four factories), agronomist,
economist, and financial analyst (from MSA or recruited as consultants).
20.    The Study Team would report through the BEDP Coordinator to the BEDP Management
Committee. The Management Committee would provide overall guidance, evaluate results and
synthesize recommendations for follow up action. The Committee would depend on a small Task
Force of senior Mauritian sugar industry experts for technical review of the progress and findings of
the Study Team. A series of six meetings of the Management Committee/Task Force would be
required to cover the inception report and the preliminary trials at the factories. A further eight
meetings will be required to monitor the pilot handling system from design to evaluation during 1993.
21.    Prior to the start of field work, and to facilitate the planning of the study, the Study Team
Leader, accompanied by a representative from the Task Force, will be sent on a four week study visit
to Hawaii, Jamaica, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, and Thailand to visit sugar estates where
research work in this field has been undertaken, and to become familiar with programming and
evaluation techniques, and the latest advances in technology and the equipment. A key objective of
this study tour is for the Study Team Leader to review the proposed research program with colleagues
in the countries i'entioned, and based on such review as appropriate make the necessary adjustments
t the study plan. The visit will provide an opportunity to strengthen research collaboration between
the Mauritian Team and its international counterparts and to establish channels for appropriate
dissemination of the results coming out of the Mauritian program.
22.    To further strengthen this aspect an International Workshop on the Utilization of Cane
Residues for Power Production would be held in Mauritius at the beginning of 1994. The Study
Team would present its findings and recommendations, in the form of a draft final report, for review
and discussion by participants from international research teams engaged in similar research activities,
the local and international sugar industry, and Government. The United Nations Development
Program, through its Resident Representative in Mauritius, would be asked to sponsor the Workshop.



- 82 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 11
The detailed planning and organization of the Workshop would be carried out by the Management
Commiftee and the BEDP Coordination Unit.
23.    Reporting: The following reports would be prepared and submitted for review:
(a) Inception Report (May 1, 1992)
(b) Report on the trials in Stages I and II (November 30, 1992)
(c) Proposals for the Pilot Systems Study (February 28, 1993)
(d) Progress report (September 1, 1993)
(e) Draft final report (December 31, 1993)
(fl Final report (March 1994)
24.   Implenentation Schedule: The time schedule for the various activities under this component
will be as follows.
(a)  Study tour/Training                      May-June 1992 (4 wks)
(b) a Stage I. Preliminary Trials
in four factories one day each
in each month: 12 in all                 July-September 1992 (12 wks)
(c) Stage II. A 15-day trial in
one factory                               October 1992 (2 wks)
(d) Evaluation Report Stages I and II         November 30, 1992
(e) Design for the pilot residue
handling system; bid proposals            February 28, 1993
(f)  Procurement, erection and
commissioning of the handling system      July 31, 1993
(g)  Stage III: Pilot system operation        August-November 1993
(h) Evaluation and draft report preparation   January 1994
(i)  International Workshop                   February 1994
a)  Final Study Report                        March 1994



- 83 -
Annex 10
Page 7 of 11
B. The Bagasse Transport Technology Study
Background
25.   Bagasse in excess of a sugar factory's internal steam requirements can be saved for alternate
uses, mainly for energy and paper and particle board production. In Mauritius, the only alternate use
of bagasse is for energy production. In the absence of a centralized large power unit attached to a
factory which can draw on the surplus bagasse of satellite factories, bagasse is generally incinerated
as waste, since loose bagasse poses problems of disposal and is subject to spontaneous combustion.
26.   The saving, handling and transportation of bagasse for power production to the grid is
currently limited to a small quantity of about 20,000 to 25,000 tons a year. This quantity is supplied
by three factories to the F.U.E.L. sugar estate, which has installations for generating 20 MW of
power year round from a bagasse-and-coal fired power plant. A single factory (Constance), located
six kilometers from F.U.E.L. supplies alone about 85 percent of the total amouait of bagasse traded
with F.U.E.L.
27.   F.U.E.L's entire bagasse requirement (own and imported supplies) is utilized during the crop
season with coal as the supplementary off-season fuel. The handling and storage systems are
minimal, and the bagasse is stored either in loose form or in bales prepared with simple baling
presses. The transport of bagasse from supplying mills is done by tractor-trailer units, with
improvised closed box-type bins loaded on to the trailer. The average load per trip is 12 tons. For
about 150 days during the crop season, bagasse is transported at the rate of 100 to 150 tons per day
by each of two tractor-trailer units operated by a private contractor.
28.   In contrast to present bagasse transport practices, the proposed BEDP project would
encompasses transport of about 75,000 tons of bagasse from mills in the southern part of the island to
the UStA bagasse-and-coal fired power plant. Similar development are expected in the northern
region once the proposed power plant at the Belle Vue sugar factory comes on stream. Given the role
projected for bagasse in the national energy plan, a quantity of about 200,000 tons of bagasse would
potentially require transport to three 20 MW power stations attached to sugar mills. This quantity
would be utilized by the three factories during the crushing season, or within a short period
thereafter. It is therefore not considered economical to transport bagasse over long distances,
involving baliig and storage for off-season use.
The Bagasse Transport Technology Study
29.   Objective and Main Features. Transportation costs are high in Mauritius because of the
limitations of the rural road net work (narrow roads, requiring small to medium size vehicles). Given
the dependence of bagasse energy development on the importation by power plants of bagasse from
neighboring mills it is essential to examine ways of handling, transport and storage of bagasse to
reduce the cost of imported bagasse delivered to the boiler. The objective of the study is therefore
to improve cost effectiveness of bagasse transpor through a set of experiments and trials aiming at:
(a) reducing capital costs in transport; (b) increasing the load per trip; and (c) utilizing slack time in
traffic.



- 84 -
Annex 10
Page 8 of 11
30.   With this objective in mind, the study would undertake the following tasks:
(a) Design of a dual purpose cane-cum-bagasse carrier. Currently cane is transported by the
sugar estates in 40 to 60 hp tractors hauling an average of 7 to 10 tons of cane in a
trailer. The bins used for loading bagasse are unsuitable for transport of uncliopped
cane from the fields. A 17/18 ton container capable of handling both bagasse and cane
would be constructed. This will have the top closed to prevent :agasse from flying off
into the open. An 80 hp tractor will be required for haulage. As the cost of such a
tractor-container unit can be assigned two-thirds to cane haulage and one third to
bagasse, there will be considerable savings through avoiding a separate bagasse-alone
system.
(b) Densification of bagasse, to increase the trip load. Bagasse has normally a bulk density
of 250 kg per cubic meter. It is proposed to use a hydraulic compactor to compress the
loose bagasse in the trailer to at least 350 kg per cubic meter. The compacting of
bagasse lowers the fuel costs by about 30 percent by reducing the number of round-trips
for transport of bagasse.
(c) Transport of cane by day and bagasse by night.
31.   Organization and Implementation. The trials and experiments would be undertaken by the
Rose Belle Sugar Estate, under the supervision of the BEDP Coordination Unit and the BEDP
Management Committee. The procurement, installation and testing of the equipment is expected to be
completed by mid-1992. The trial runs of transport of bagasse will be held for about 75 to 90 days
during the crushing sea.jn July 1992 to November 1992. The management of Rose Belle Sugar
Estate will be responsible for preparing a report to the BEDP Coordination Unit by February 1993,
covering trials conducted and a comparative evaluation of results in terms of costs per ton of bagasse
transported.
32.   Costs and Financing. The capital cost of the study is estimated at US$145,000 including
contingencies, covering the acquisition of a compactor, a tractor trailer set and minor mechanical and
civil works to modify the hauling unit. These costs would be met out of the expected GEF grant in
support of BEDP Tecknology Development. The operating costs for the trials would be met by Rose
Belle Sugar Estate.
C. Training Program in Support of Power Plant Operations
Background
33.   With the FUEL sugar estate operating a bagasse-and-coal fired power plant since 1985,
Mauritius has experience of firm power co-generation from bagasse. The technical skill requirements
under the proposed new power plant at UStA, however, will be of a higher degree of sophistication
given that this plant will involve high pressure boilers of 70 bars, as against 46 in FUEL and 25-30 in
other sugar estates.



- 85 -
Annex 10
Page 9 of 11
34.   Local institutions are not geared to the training and turn-out of personnel with skills required
for the operation and maintenance of such steam generation equipment. The FUEL estate has had
considerable difficulties in proper operation and maintenance, leading in the last two years to major
breakdowns in both the boiler and the turbo-alternator. Hence, it is critical for the success of the
investment under the BEDP to install a training scheme for personnel at various levels in the USA
sugar estate.
Proposed Training Scheme
35.   The management of the UStA will implement a training program involving staff in the power
operation, from the management level down to the technicians. The scheme will involve 28 man-
months of training at a total cost of US$270,000 including contingencies. It is envisaged that the
costs of training be met out of the proposed GEF Grant for Technology and Manpower Development
in support of BEDP implementation.
36.   The training program will involve visits to and hands-on training at select stations abroad
(Hawaii, Reunion and France) which are well experienced in power generation in sugar factories of
the standards envisaged under the proposed project. It would be coordinated with the implementation
of the investment in the power plant so that trained personnel are in position from the start of the
plant, targeted for November 1994 (a chart showing the phasing of the proposed training is attached).
More specifically, the program would involve the following components:
(a)  Management training will cover the visit of four persons for a period of one month
each, to study the operations and management techniques in Bois Rouge sugar mill,
Reunion; HCPC sugar mill, Hawaii; and a coal power station at Mazingarbe, France.
(b) Shift Engineers (three persons) and one Production Manager will have on-site
technical training, 15 days for each in each of the above three stations (6 person
months).
(c)  A chemist will have one month's training for two weeks in Mazingarbe, France and the
rest in a suitable water treatment laboratory to be decided.
(d) Four boiler operators will attend a month's training course in Mazingarbe, France.
The course will focus on the operation of the automatic controls of high pressure boilers.
(e) The scheme for the technicians in various disciplines will be as follows.
(i)   Pipes and valve fitters course: four persons, four months.
(ii)   Welding course for gas and electric welders will cover two trainees, for one
month.
(iii)  Three fitters will be trained at the turbine supplier's factory for a period of one
month each.
(iv)   Four electricians will be trained in France for a period of one month each.



- 86 -
Page 10 of 11
37.   The training schema will be organiized and monitored by the management of the UStA sugar
company, but will be administered under the proposed project by the BEDP Coordination Committee.
nohe first Annual Work Program for the project will include UStA's detailed arrangements for
training, including: (a) the qualifications and experience of the candidates to be selected; and
(b) detailed Terms of reference for the courses to be covered.
wdpsar.axlObc
01/25192



L[MNDPWERQffQMTATt
*.24 a    a                 ,-21 a    1-19 a  *.17  . 1516 a   .-13 1    1-II   a    a 9-a    A 7   a        -I5   a    *I3    1 IISTARTUPPOWER
UE                                                               JUNE 1993                                                               JiN ..
1992
(a) VIak ol powe stations k  mnagement
C ....                                I ..,   .b) SHIFT ENGcNEERSTRAIING
HCPC - HAWAII                          Bos fRouge - REUNION               Mazingarbe - FRANCE
<c---  c     (c>  oNer Waler Treatment traWng br chmist
fPANCE
c..--  . c.-.. .-.*                                 (d) Automatic Contuos training
Bos Rouge                              Mazingarbe
SBMC                                   FBNCE
c.....         ..........>    is) Pi" a Valvo Fh rs Ttahig
FPANCE
c...,  (1) WakIng trang
c  ->   (g) Tubo Alemalor Filnt  Trnig
.    (hI) Electrician Trainhig
O-I.
o



- 88 -                          Annex II
Page 1 of 14
MAURUTIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Economic and Financial Analysis
A. Economic Analysis
1.    The economic analysis focuses on those elements of the project that are directly related to the
22MW bagasse-and-coal plant, namely: (a) investments in a 22MW bagasse-and-coal power plant at
the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory; (b) investments in vehicles and equipment to transport bagasse
from satellite sugar mills to Union St. Aubin; (c) investments in establishing transmissions lines from
Union St. Aubin to the national grid; ani (d) investments in satellite sugar mill modernization to
increase the efficiency of bagasse use in producing and utilizing steam for the sugar production
process.
Methodology and Assumptions
2.    The economic analysis (Table I), calculates the net incremental benefit to the project of
establishing a 22MW bagasse-and-coal power plant. The analysis includes the investments and
operating expenses for the 22MW bagasse-and-coal power plant, the transmission lines, the
transportation equipment, and the mill modernization. The costs for mill modernization are
incremental, accounting only for those additional expenses to conserve bagasse that would be made if
there were a power plant willing to purchase the bagasse. Incremental benefits are taken as the
economic value of the exported electricity plus the economic value of electricity generated but used
in-house by the power plant or the sugar factory. The economic internal rate of return is calculated
from the start of construction to the end of the life of the plant, 20 years of operations at full
capacity, for a total of 22 years. Equipment with shorter useful life is replaced during the project
period.
3.    There is a total of 72,500 tons of bagasse available at Union St Aubin, 51,000 tons of which
will be used to produce the power required by the sugar process, and 21 GWh o0 electricity to the
grid through extraction. In addition, 21,500 tons of bagasse that are not used to provide power for
the production of sugar at Union St. Aubin, the 38,900 tons of bagasse currently available from
neighboring factories at Highlands, Savannah, Bel Ombre, Riche En Eau, and Rose Belle, and the
38,400 tons of bagasse that could be made available after mill modemization improvements from
Highlands, Savannah, and Riche En Eau would supply another 48 GWh of electricity to the grid
through condensation. To produce the additional 65 GWh of electricity at the power plant, 36,000
tons of coal, at an economic cost of US$66.58 per ton, would be required.
4.    The power plant is expected to operate 6,800 hours annually at 85 percent capacity, to
generate 134GWh of electricity, of which 111 GWh would be exported to the national grid after
satisfying the requirements of the sugar production process and transmission generation losses. The
plant is expected to start operations at 50 percent capacity in the third year (1994/95), and to be at
full operating capacity in the fourth year (1995/96). The investments required are expected to cost



- 89 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 14
$20.1 million (base cost), net of taxes and duties. Building a three km transmission line is expected
to cost $0.12 million, and a power station at Combo is expected to cost $0.25 million. Mill
modernization investments are expected to take place at Highlands, Savannah, and Riche En Eau
sugar factories, costing $2.03 million. A total of 12 tractor trailer sets are estimated to be necessary
to transport the bagasse from the satellite mills to Union St Aubin. Since these tractor trailer sets will
also be used by the sugar companies to transport cane, the incremental cost as a result of the project
is $41,650 per set. The Central Electricity Board (CEB), which will supply coal to the power plant,
already has coal handling and transport facilities that would be able to handle the additional 36,000
tons of coal without further modification or investment.
5.    Operating costs are estimated as follows: MRsO.17 per kwh, or MRs170.00 per Mwh, for
operations and maintenance of the power plant, which at an exchange rate of MRs15.5 per US$ is
$10.97 per Mwh; repair and replacement costs are estimated at 2 percent of total investment, for
both the power plant and the mill modernization investments; annual operating costs of the tractor
trailer sets are estimated at $32,500 per set, and variable fuel costs are estimated at $0.011 per km
travelled per ton of bagasse; bagasse handling charges at Union St Aubin are estimated at $1.00 per
ton.
6.    The economic value of the exported electricity is priced at the avoided cost in 1991 $ of
establishing and operating a 24MW 2-stroke diesel power plant. The variable cost of diesel is set at
the projected price in the year 2005, the midpoint of the project period, so as to capture the
underlying real increase in the price of diesel, and to reduce the impact of annual price fluctuations on
the economic analysis. The economic price in the year 2005 is calculated at MRsl.18 per kwh, or
$76.43 per MWh. The calculation of the avoided cost is in Annex 6.
Results
7.     Given the assumptions discussed above, the economic rate of return is 18.1 percent. If the
costs of construction of the power plant increases by 20 percent, increasing operating costs
proportionally, the rate of return falls to 14.8 percent. If the capital costs of mill modernization
investments increases by 20 percent, the rate of return drops to 17.8 percent. If the price of coal
increases by 20 percent, the rate of return becomes 16.2 percent. If bagasse availability drops by 20
percent, requiring the substitution of coal for bagasse, the rate of return becomes 15.8 percent. If the
price per kwh of electricity drops by 20 percent, which represents a 50 percent drop in the year 2005
price of diesel, the rate of return becomes 9.4 percent.
B. Financial Analysis
Mill Improvement Investments
8.    The sugar factories are in the process of modernizing their mills. As part of this mill
modernization program, they have indicated their willingness to invest in equipment that would enable
them to generate and utilize steam more efficiently, thereby conserving bagasse. The proposed
project, and the Bagasse Energy Development Program, would include funds for these incremental
investments that would enable the millers to conserve bagasse. As indicated in Table II, the total
incremental investments required for bagasse conservation at the sugar factories amounts to $10.1
million, of which $2.03 million would be included in the project for investments at the Highlands,
Riche En Eau, and Savannah sugar factories.



-90-
\                                           ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AnnxI
Page 3 of 14
9.    The sugar factories are willing to undertake these investments in bagasse savings on the
a3sumption that they will be able to maki a reasonable return on their investment through the sale of
bagasse. At a price per ton of bagasse of $7.00 in 1991, the three mills undertaking investments as
part of the project can expect a financial internal rate of return on their investment of 19 percent.
This is comparable to the opportunity cost of capital, which at present is at a maximum of 18 percent
for long term loans to the export proce9stllg zone sector.
Power Plant
10.    Pro forma income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements in constant 1991
prices are shown in Tables II, IV, and V for the power plant investment. This analysis assumes that
the power pIqnt operations will be independent of other power operations at the sugar mill. Total
financial costs of establishing a power plant are estimated at $24.7 million. Interest during
construction will be capitalized. The investor in the power plant will be responsible for the transport
of bagasse from the miller to the power plant, and will therefore purchase and operate the necessary
transportation equipment, at a cost per tractor trailer set of $41,650. Unlike the economic analysis,
the power plant will pay for all the bagasse it gets at a price per ton of $7.00 plus $1.00 handling
charges, and will sell all the power it produces to thc. national grid. The financial cost per ton of coal
used in the analysis is $74.19.
11.   The analysis shows that at a price of MRs1.25 per kwh, which is well below the maximum
financial price as established in the avoided cost analysis, the return on owners' equity is 11.8 percent
in real terms (Table IV), which compares favorably with the opportunity cost of capital of 6 percent
in real terms (18 percent less the rate of inflation of 12 percent). The cash flow statements (Table V)
indicate that the power producer would be able to service its debt, having a debt service coverage
ratio of 1.2 times.
C. Avoided Cost Comparison
12.   Table VI shows a comparison of economic avoided costs based on different iel burning
power plant configurations. Coal represents the most expensive alternative per kwh generated,
followed by diesel, and bagasse-cum-coal. A 50 MW coal plant, operating for 6,500 hours annually
at 90 percent capacity would generate 292.5 GWh of electricity. At a plant cost of MRsl1.1 billion,
the annualized capital costs per kwh would be MRsO.69. At an economic purchase and transport
price of MRs1,035 per ton of coal, the fuel costs per kwh would be MRsO.71. Operating costs are
taken at MRsO.17 per kwh for all power plants, resulting in an avoided cost for the coal plant of
MRsI.57 per kwh.
13.   A 24 MW diesel plant, operating for 6,500 hours annually at 90 percent capacity would
generate 140.4 GWh of electricity. At a plant cost of MRs428 million, the annualized capital costs
per kwh would be MRsO.56. At an economic purchase price of MRs2,267 per ton of diesel, the fuel
costs per kwh would be MRsO.45. Operating costs are taken at MRsO.17 per kwh for all power
plants, resulting in an avoided cost for the diesel plant of MRs 1.18 per kwh.
14.   A 22 MW bagasse-and-coal plant, operating for 6,800 hours annually at 90 percent capacity
would generate 126.5 GWh of electricity. At a plant cost of MRs312 million, the annualized capital
costs per kwh would be MRsO.45. The total tonnage of coal used is 36,279, at an economic cost of
MRs1,032 per ton, for a total cost of MRs37 million. The total tonnage of bagasse used is 149,783,



- 91 -
Annex 11
Page 4 of 14
at a handling cost of MRsl5.7 per ton, for a total of MRs2 million. The weighted average cost per
ton of raw material used in the bagasse-cum-coal plant is therefore MRs214 per ton, producing an
average of 680 kwh per ton. On a kwh basis, the weighted average cost of fuel is MRsO.31.
Operating costs are taken at MRsO. 17 per kwh for all power plants, resulting in an avoided cost for
the bagasse-and-coal plant of MRsO.94 per kwh.
D. Location of Power Plants
15.   Table VII shows in summary form the comparison of the costs of centralizing a bagasse-and-
coal plant at a single location, such as Flacq United Estates Ltd Sugar Factory (FUEL), versus
decentralizing three smaller plants at Union St Aubin, Belle Vue, and FUEL. From the discounted
cost streams it is evidenit that decentralizing electricity production from bagasse-and-coal plants is
preferable.
16.   The cost of the 60MW bagasse-and-coal fired power plant at FUEL is assumed to be $59.1
mnillion, which is on the low side, given some estimates as high as $80.2 million. All investments in
bagasse savings are assumed to take place in the year the power plant is operational. To simplify the
assumptions, the power plant is expected to be fully operational in the first year. Assuming that
Medine and Mon Tresor Mon Desert sugar factories will continue to provide continuous power to the
national grid, and that the present bagasse-and-coal plant will continue to operate at FUEL, a total of
359,374 tons of bagasse will be transported to FUEL, requiring a fleet of 53 tractor trailer sets. To
make up the shortfall In raw materials, 103,139 tons of coal will be used. Since FUEL is relatively
far from the major load centers, losses due to increased transmission of the electricity would amount
to $150,000 on an annual basis. All other assumptions are as indicated above in the Section A.
Given these costs streams, the discounted present value of the costs of establishing and operating a
6OMW plant at FUEL is $A00 million.
17.   The three power plants to lie located at Union St Aubin, Belle Vue, and FUEL are expected
to be fully operational in 1994, 1955, and 1997, according to the national plan. Investments in
bagasse conserving equipment is expected to take place in each region in the year the regional plant
becomes operational. A total of 27 tractor trailer sets are required to transport 218,897 tons of
bagasse to the three plants. An additional 92,252 tons of coal are needed to guarantee firm
production of electricity. Given these cost streams, the discounted present value of the costs of
establishing and operating three 20MW bagasse-and-coal power plants is $81 million.
E. Foreign Exchange Savings
18.   The establishment of the bagasse-and-coal power plant will reduce foreign exchange
expenditures for the impo;tation of fuels. If the bagasse-and-coal plant were not to be established, the
least-cost alternative would be a diesel plant producing 140.4 GWh annually by using 27,700 tons of
diesel. At a CIF price of $138.20 per ton, the annual cost of imported diesel would be $3.8 million.
The coal to be used in the bagasse-and-coal plant is also imported, at a cost of $50.45 per ton for
36,300 tons of coal. The annual cost of imported coal would be $1.8 million annually. The net
saving would therefore be $2.0 million annually.
sedpsar.axllbbc
0125/92



- 92 -                                           Annex  11
Page 5 of .14
4AURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabte t: Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
(in US Dollars)
1            2           3           4           5          6
................. ..................................  , .........
A. INVESTMENT COSTS
New Power Plant                               8,041,104    8,041,104   4,020,552            0           0          0
Turbo-stternator Replacement                          0            0           0           0            0          0
Transmission Lines                              147,030      147,030      73,515           0            0          0
Transportation Equiprent                              0            0     249,900     249,900            0          0
Mitt Modernizations                             304,667      304,667    406,223       507,779     507,779          0
........... .................... __,*.......   . ............ ........................ ..............................................
Subtotat                                   8,492,801    8,492,801   4,750,190     757,679     507,779           0
8.  OPERATING COSTS
New Power Plant
Operations, Maintanence                              0            0     738,348   1,476,697   1,476,697  1,476,697
Repair and Replacement                         160,822      321,644     402,055     402,055     402,055    402,055
Operating Costs New Power Plant              160,822      321,644   1,140,404   1,878,752   1,878,752  1,878,752
Existing Power Plant Operating Costs              508,829      508,829     254,414           0            0
Transportation RquIpment
operating Costs                                      0            0      194,970    389,940     389,940    389,940
Veriable Costs                                       0            0      20,337       40,673      40,673     40,673
Operating Costs Transportation                     0            0     215,307    430,613    430,613    430,613
Bagasse Handltng                                        0            0      74,892      149,783     149,783    149,783
Coal Raw Material and Handling                          0            0   1,207,712   2,415,424   2,415,424  2,415,424
Witl Modernization                                  6,093       12,187       20,311      30,467      40,622     40,622
......... ..... _._ ..........................  ................... ....................................... ..... ........, 
Subtotat                                     675,744      842,659   2,913,039   4,905,039   4,915,195  4,915,195
C.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS                         9,168,545    9,335,461   7,663,229   5,662,718   5,422,973  4,915,195
0.  INCREMENTAL SENEFITS
Economic Vatue of Exported Electricity                  0            0   4,229,790   8,459,580   8,459,580  8,459,580
Economic Value of Electricity Used In-House
From Sagasse                                   910,503      910,503     910,503     910,503     910,503    910,503
From Coal                                            0            0     132,465     264,929     264,929    264,929
............. ......................           ... *_e............ ................ ......................................
Subtotal                                     910,503      910,503   5,272,758  9,635,012   9,635,012  9,635,012
E.  INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS                       (8,258,042)  C8,424,957) (2,390,472)  3,972,294   4,212,039  4,719,817
F. ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE 0 RETURN           18.09X



_ 93 -                                  '      Annex  11
Page  6 of  14
7           8           9           10          11          12
A.  INVESTMENT COSTS
Now Power Plant                                        0           0            0           0           0            0
Turbo-atternator Reptlcement                           0           0            0           0           0            0
Transmission Lines                                     0           0            0           0           0           0
Trmnsportation Equipment                               0           0            0      71,400      71,400      71,400
Iftl Modernizations                                    0           0            0           0           0            0
Subtotal                                            0           0            0      71,400      71,400      71,400
S. OPERATING COSTS
New Power Plrnt
Operations, Maintenoce                        1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697
Repair and Replacoment                          402,055     402,055     402,055      402,055     402,055     402,055
Operoting Costs New Power Plant             1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752
Existing Power Ptant Operating Costs
Transportation Equipment
OperatIng Costs                                 389,940     389,940      389,940     389,940     389,940     389,940
Variable Costs                                   40,673      40,673      40,673       40,673      40,673      40,673
Operating Costs Transportation                430,613     430,613     430,613      430,613     430,613     430,613
Bagasse Handting                                   149,783     149,783      149,783     149,783     149,783      149,783
Coal Raw Haterial and H&,dling                   2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424
itll Modernization                                  40,622      40,622       40,622      40,622      40,622       40,622
Subtotal                                    4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195
C. TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS                           4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195   4,986,595   4,986,595   4,986,595
D. INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Economic Valuo of Exported ElectrIcity           8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580
Economic Value of Electricity Used In-House
From Bagasse                                    910,503     910,503     910,503      910,503     910,503     910,503
From Coat                                       264,929     264,929     264,929      264,929     264,929     264,929
. .............. ....................          ........ ................. ..........................................
Subtotal                                    9,635,012   9,635,012   9,635,012   9,635,012 I 9,635,012   9,635,012
F.  INCRENIENTAL NET BENEFITS                        4,719,817   4,719,817   4,719,817   4,648,417   4,648,417   4,648,417
F.  ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN          18.09%



*    -  . 94 _                                  Annex  11
Page 7 of 14
13          14          15          16           17          18
A. INVESTMENT COSTS
New Power Plant                                         0           0            0           0           0            0
Turbo-alternator Replacement                            0           0            0           0           0            0
Transmission Lines                                      0           0            0           0           0            0
Transportation Equipment                           71,400      71,400       71,400      71,400      71,400      71,400
Mit Modernizations                                      0           0            0           0           0            0
......................................................................  ........................................................................
Subtotal                                        71,400      71,400      71,400       71,400      71,400      71,400
S. OPERATING COSTS
New Power Plant
Operations, HMfntanence                        1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697
Repair and Replacement                           402,055     402,0S5     402,055      402,055     402,055     402,055
Operating Costs New Power Plant              1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752
Exiating Power Plant Operating Costs
Transportation Equipment
Operating Costs                                  389,940     389,940     389,940      389,940     389,940      389,940
Variable Costs                                    40,673      40,673      40,673       40,673      40,673      40,673
Operating Costs Transportation                 430,613     430,613     430,613      430,613     430,613     430,613
Sagasse Handling                                    149,783     149,783      149,783     149,783     149,783      149,783
Coal Raw Material and HandlIng                    2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424
Mill Modernization                                   40,622      40,622       40,622      40,622      40,622       40,622
Subtotal                                     4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195
C.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS                           4,986,595   4,986,595   4,986,595   4,986,595   4,986,595   4,986,595
D, INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Economic Value of Exported Electricity            8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580
Economic Value of Electricity Used In-House
From sagasse                                     910,503     910,503     910,503      910,503     910,503     910,503
From Coal                                        264,929     264,929     264,929      264,929     264,929     264,929
Subtotal                                     9,635,012   9,635,012   9,635,012   9,635,012   9,635,012   9,635,012
E.  INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS                          4,648,417   4,648,417   4,648,417   4,648,417   4,648,417   4,648,417
F.  ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN          18.09X



*                                                            95                                               Annex 11
Page 8 of 14
19          20          21          22
A. INVEStMENT COSTS
New Power Plant                                        0           0           0            0
Turbo-alternator Replacement                           0           0           0           0
Transission Lines                                      0           0           0           0
Transportation Equgpment                          71,400      71,400      71,400      71,400
Nill Modernizations                                    0           0           0            0
........... ................................ I ....................  ....................... .........................
Subtotal                                       71,400      71,400      71,400      71,400
S. OPERATING COSTS
New Power Plant
Operations, Naintanence                       1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697   1,476,697
Repair and RepLacement                          402,055     402,055     402,055     402,055
Operating Costs New Pcwer Plant             1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752   1,878,752
Existing Power Plant Operating Costs
Transportation Equipment
Operating Costs                                 389,940     389,940     389,940     389,940
Variable Costs                                   40,673      40,673      40,673      40,673
Operating Costs Transportation                430,613     430,613     430,613     430,613
eagass Handling                                    149,783     149,783     149,783      149,783
Coal Raw Material and Handling                   2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424   2,415,424
Mill Modernization                                  40,622      40,622      40,622      40,622
..,.,,,.,,.........    .............          ...............................
Subtotal                                    4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195   4,915,195
C.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS                          4,986,595   4,986,595   4,986,595   4,986,595
0. INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Economic VaLue of Exported Electricity           8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580   8,459,580
Economic Value of Electricity Used In-House
From Bagasse                                    910,503     910,503     910,503     910,503
From Coal                                       264,929     264,929     264,929     264,929
.........w ..o..............................   .. ..............................................
Subtotal                                    9,635,012   9,635,012   9,635,012   9,635,012
E.  INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS                         4,648,417  4,648,417   4,648,417   4,648,417
F.  ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN         18.09%



-  96  -
MAuRms                                                           Annex 11
SUGARaUwGYDWVELOPEM flOJU                                                       Page*9. of 14
Tabl U: MM ModeswAmIe hwmtom Rsqake
toj           Efkb<                      Si
Amount of Incremental
PaCtoQ                 Typo of Invesment                               InveterAnt (US$)
Beu Pn                 Continuous Vacuum Pans                                       S670,000
Pell. Vus              Mill Electrtleation                                        S2,000,000
Contnuouw Vacuum Pans                                       S670,000
MonLol0ir              Boiler Replacement                                           $361,200
Mount                 tNone                                                               SO
St Antoin              None                                                               S0
B"u Champ              None                                                               So
Contance               Prc-Evaporator                                               $333,000
FUEL                   Mill Electrication                                         S1,700,000
Continuous Vacuum Pans                                      5370,000
Mon Dese#t Alma        Continuous Vacuum Pans                   S700,000
Bel Onbre              Evaporator                                                   $107,300
Briuanla               Svaporator                                                   S600,000
Highlands              Evaporator                                                   S199,500
juice Heater                                                 $51,500
Mon Tresor Mon Desert
Alcha En Eau           Boiler Replacoment                                           5632,233
Evaporator                                                  $192,692
Continuous Vacuum Pans                                      $189,386
Ros Bello              Continuous Vacuum Pans                                       $144,000
Savannah               Pre-Evaporator                                               S425,491
Boiler Improvement                                          $340,313
St Fclix               Continuous Vacuum Pans                                       S400,000
Union St Aubin         None                                                               S0
MEDINE                 Nono                                                               So
TOTAL                                                                            Slo,086,615
1his tabis is based on informadon regarding mill modernization investmt provided by tho sugar
factories. 'hose Investments that are unrelated to improvihg effioiency of steam generation
or utilization are excluded. Invemenats to rplaco existing obsulete equipmen at the sugar
factories are also oxcluded. Any incremental invetments in equipment that would have a positive
impact on bagoa  conservation, or that would ba additional to the rcquiremnt of the sugar
factory ae Included in the tablo above.



MMURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analys's
Table III: Pro Forma Income Statement - New Power Plant
1994/95     1995/96    1996/97    1997/98     1998/99
Revenues from Sate of Electricity                                             5;103;290  10,206,581 10,206,581 10,206,581  10,206,581
Cost of Goods Sotd
Bagasse                                                                     599,132   1,198,264  1,198,264 1,198,264   1,198,264
Coal                                                                      1,179,345   2,358,691  2,358,691  2,358,691   2,358,691
Total Cost of Goods Sold                                               1,778,477  3,556,955  3,556,955  3,556,955   3,556,955
Gross Profit                                                                  3.324,813   6,649,626 6,649,626 6,649,626   6,649,626
Operating Expenses
Power Plant                                                               1,187,777   1,881,825  1,881,825   1,881,825   1.882,825
Transportation                                                              217,809     435,617   435,617   435,617    435,617
Total Operating Expenses                                               1,405,586   2,317,44a  2,317,442 2,317,442   2,317,442
Operating Profit                                                              1,919.227  4,332,184 4,332,184 4,332,184  4,332,184
Interest Expenses                                                            2,444,732   2,444,732  2,444,732 2,444,732   2,444.732
Depreciation                                                                  1,270,024   1,305,724  1.305,724  1,305,724   1,305,724
Profit Before Taxes                                                          (1,795,529)   581,728    581,728    581,728      581,728
Taxes                                                                                 0           0          0          0           0
Nat Income                                                                   (1,795,529)    581,728    581,728    581,728     581,728
Dividends                                                                             0           0          0          0           0
Retained Earnings at Beginming                                                        0  (1,795,529)(1,213,801)  t632,074)    (50,346)
Retained Earnings at End                                                     (1,795,529) (1,213,801)  (632,074)   (50,346)    531,382
Ratios
Operating Income as X of Revenues                                                 37.61%      42.45%     42.45%    42.45%       42.45%
Net Income as X of Revenues                                                      -35.18%       5.705      5.70%      5.70%       5.70%
Return on Owners Equity                                                          -36.37%      11.78%     11.78%     11.78%      11.78%
Return on Total Capital                                                           -7.51%       2.51%      2.59%      2.67%       2.76%
Return on Assets                                                                  -7.08%       2.35%      2.42%      2.49%       2.57%
c o
(D
0
40-



NAURITIUS
SUGWR ENERGM DEVELOPWEJT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Table IV: Pro Forma Balance Sheet - New Power Plant
1992/93     1993/94      1994/95     1995/96    1996/97    1997/98      1998/99
Assets
Cash                                            0   2,311,225   1,338,885   1,481.832 2,071,612  2,661,393   3,251.173
Accounts ReceivabLe                             0           0     343,111      686,221    686,221    686,221      686,221
Total Current Assets                     0   2,311,225   1,681,996   2,168,053  2,757,833  3,347,614   3,937,394
Power Plant
Plant Under Construction            9.874,591  24,686,477            0            0          0           0           0
Plant in Service                                            24,686,477 24,686,477 24,686,477 24,686,477  24,686.477
Accumulated Depreciation                                     1,234,324   2,468,648  3,702,972  4,937,295   6,171,619
Net Plant in Operation              9,874,591  24,686,477  23,452,153  22,217,829 20,983,505 19,749,182  18,514,858
Other Property, Plant & Equipnent               0           0     249,900      499,800    499,800    499,800      499,800
Accumulated Depreciation                    0            0      35,700      107,100    178,500    249,900      321,300
Net PPE in Operation                        0            0     214,200      392,700    321,300    249,900      178,500                                  1
Total Fixed Assets               9,874,591  24,686,477  23,666,353  22,610,529 21,304,805 19,999,082  18,693,358                                    AD
Total Assets                           9,874,591  26,997,702  25,348,349  24,778,582 24,062,639 23,346,695  22,630,752                                    co
Liabilities
Notes Payable                                                   1,297,671   1,297,671  1,297,671  1,297,671   1,297,671
Accounts PayabLe                                0           0      146,176     292,352    292,352    292,352      292,352
Total Current Liabilities                   0            0   1,443,847   1,590,023  1,590,023  1,590,023   1,590,023
Long Term Cebt                         7,899,673  22,060,407  20,762,736  19,465,065 18,167,394 16,869,723  15,572,052
Common Stock                           1,974,918   4,937,295   4,937,295.  4,937,295  4,937,295  4,937,295   4,937,295
Retained Earnings                               0           0  (1,795,529) (1,213,801)  (632,074)   (50,346)    531,382
Total Liabilities                      9,874,591  26,997,702  25,348,349  24,778,582 24,062,639 23,346,695  22,630,752
Ratios
Current Ratio                                                              1.2         1.4         1.7        2.1         2.5
Debt to Equity                                    4.0         4.5          6.6         5.2        4.2         3.5          2.8
Debt as a X of Total Capitalization                80X         82%          87%         84%         81%        78%          74%
ID0
I4-



AUPRITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPI)ENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Table V: Cash Flows to Capital - New Power Ptant
1992/93     1993/94     1994/95      1995/96    1996/97    1997/98      1998/99
Sources of Cash
Internal
Net Incom After Tax                             0           0  (1,795,529)    581,728    581,728    581,728       581.728
+  Depreciation                                    0           0   1,270,024   1,305,724  1,305,724  1,305,724   1.305,724
+  Interest Expenses                               0           0   2,444,732   2,444,732  2,444,732  2,444,732   2,444,732
=  Cash Generated Internalty                       0           0   1,919,227   4,332,184  4,332,184  4,332,184   4,332,184
External
+  New Long Term Debt                      7,899,673  14,160,734
+  New Equity Capital                      1,974,918   2,962,377            0           0           0          0            0
=  Cash Generated Externally               9,874,591  17,123,111            0           0           0          0            0
Total Cash Generated                        9,874,591  17,123,111   1,919,227   4,332,184  4,332,184 4,332,184   4.332,184
Uses of Cash
Operating Expenses
Change in Net Vorking Capital                   0           0  (1,100,737)    196,934           0           0           0
(Decrease)
Capital Expenditures
+  Power Plant                             9,874,591  14,811,886
+  Other Property, Plant & Equipment               0           0      249,900     249,900           0          0            0
=  Cash Used for Capitat Expenditures    9.874,591  14,811,886        249,900     249,960           0          0           0
Cash Used for Operations                    9,874,591  14,811,886    (850,837)    446,834            0          0            0
Cash Position Before Debt Service                   0   2,311,225   2,770,064   3,885,350  4,332,184  4,332,184   4,332,184
Debt Service
*  Interest                                        0           0   2,444,732   2,444,732  2,444,732  2,444,732   2,444,732
+  Principal                                       0           0   1,297,671   1,297,671  1,297,671  1,297,671   1,297,671
T total Debt Service                               0           0   3,742,403   3,742,403  3,742,403  3,742,403   3,742,403
Cash Position After Debt Service                    0   2,311,225    (972,340)    142,946    589,781    589,781       589,781                              m=
Cash at Beginning                                   0           0   2,311,225   1,338,885  1,481,832  2,071,612   2,661,393
Cash at End                                         0   2,311,225   1,338,885   1,481,832  2,071,612  2,661,393   3,251,173
Ratios
0
Debt Service Coverage                                                      0.5         1.2         1.2        1.2          1.2



Annex 11
Page 13 of 14
. AUfRlluUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table VI  Ftl  Bosed Comparison of Economic Avoided Costa
Coal Plant          Diesel Plant    sagasse - Cost Plant
OPERMATING PARAMETERS
Installed Capacity (kw)                                 50,000                24,000               22,000
Annual Hours of Operation                                 6,500                6,500                 6,800
Operating capacity                                           90X                  90X                   85X
Net Output (kwh)                                   292,500,00           140,400,000          126,561,600
CAPITAL COSTS
CapItal Costs (Re)                               1,097,000,000          428,000,000           311,550,000
Annualized Capital Costs (Re)                      201,893,074            78,769,586           57,338,001
Capital Costs per kwh (Re)                                 0.69                 0.56                  0.45
FUEL COSTS
Price per Ton (Rs)                                        1,032                2,267                   214
kwh per Ton                                               1,450                5,076                   680
Price per kwh (Rs)                                         0.71                 0.45                  0.31
OPERATING COSTS
Operating Costs per kwh (Rs)                               0.17                 0.17                  0.17
............................................................
TOTAL COSTS PER KWH (Rs)                                        1.57                 1.18                  0.94
Table 3a: Bagasse - Coal Plant Weighted Average Fuel Costs
Total Tonnage         Cost per Ton            Total Cost
, ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coat                                                    36,279                 1,032           37,439,928
Bagasse                                                149,783                    16            2,321,637
Total                                                  186,062                   214           39,761,565



101 -                                       Annex  11
pa-T7   f 14
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table VII: Ccmq rison of Costs of Centralized vs. Decentralized Location of Power Platits
Suwmary of Constnt Cost Streams Discounted at 15.5 Percent
Option 1: CENTRALIZATION AT FUEL                                Option 2: DECENTRALIZATION AT REGIONAL PLANTS
1. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS                                          I. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
A. Investment in 60MW Plant at FUEL           36,051            A. Investment in 20MW Plant at USA             12,238
B  Investments for Bagasse Savfngs             5 338               Investment in 2014W Plant at Bolto Vue      10,596
C  Transportation Fleet                        2,310               Investment in 20MW Plant at FUEL             7,943
. ........................ .............. . -.-           ---Total                                         30,778
Total Capital Investments                  43,698            B. Investments for Sagasse Savings             4,447
C. Transportation Fleet                        1,041
It. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                     ...........................
A. Pl3nt Operatfng Costs                      19,941               Total Capitat Investments                  36,265
0, Operating Costs of Millers                    751
C. Fleet operating Costs                       6,807           11. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
...-------.....-...-...-.-..--..-...-............            A. Plant Operating Costs                      16,582
Total Incremental Operating Costs          27,499            B. Operating Costs of Milters                    626
C. Fleet Operating Costs                       3,004
Ill. COSTS OF RAW MATERIALS                                          .
A. Bagasse                                     2, 878              Total Incrementat Operating Costs          20,211
3. Coal                                       25,592
. ..... . .-- ..... - -- - - --.---  ...................  Ill. COSTS OF RAW MATERIALS
Total Raw Material Costs                   28,470            A. Bagasse                                     2,039
B. Coal                                       22,090
IV.  TRANSMISSION LOSSES                           593
Totat Raw Material Costs                   24,129
TOTAL COSTS                               100,260               TOTAL COSTS                                80,606



102 -
Page 1 of S
MAUiRMUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment - Summary 1/
Project Objectives
1.    The objective of the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP) and the implementation
of its first phase aW the Union St. Aubin Sugar Sugar Factory is to provide additional generating
capacity of 22MW and supply about 136 GWH of electrical power in 1994. Without the project, the
incremental energy demand in Mauritius would have to be met through the establishment of a 24MW
dlesel fired electricity generating plant operated by the Central Electricity Board (CEB). Also,
bagasse would continue to be wastefully burnt by sugar factories rather than used for power
generation. Hence, a key aspect of the proposed project is to capitalize on the opportunity for
converting viasteful use of an indigenous renewable biomass fuel into efficient use for production of
electricity.
2.    With the project, bagasse rather than being wasted would be used for firing the power plant at
Union St. Aubin during the crop season, using coal during the intercrop season. Bagasse would
replace diesel during July to December while coal would replace diesel during the remainder of the
year. The incremental net reduction in total fuel burnt, brought about by the project (i.e., "with
project" requirements less "without project" requirements), is represented by the quantity of diesel
which CEB would use to flre its diesel plant during the period July to Decenmber (estimated at about
14,000 tons annually).
Environmental Poilcy and Regulations
3.    Mauritius lacked a national environmental policy for the protection of the environment and
natural resources until November 1988. At that time the Government adopted an outline policy
setting forth environmental goals, directions and guidance. The National Environment Commission
was established to woordinate environmental policies, and has since approved a National
Environmental Action Plan and a White Paper on National Environmental Policy. A Department of
Environment was established within the Ministry of Enviromment and Land Use (now Ministry of
Environment and Quality of Life) as an administrative agency in support of the implementation of the
National Environmental Action Plan.
1/    A full environmental assessment is provided in 'Report on the Environmental Assessment for the
Bapasse Energy Development Program - Union St. Aubin Sugar Mill", issued by the Government of
Mat4tius' Technical Committee on Bagasse Energy Development in September 1991.



103 -
Page 2 of S
4.    In July 1991 the Maurltian Parliament enacted dhe Environment Protection Act of 1991, This
Act provides the legislative mandate implementing governmental policies. It provides authority for
enforcement, environmental impact assessments, spill and environmental emergencies, national
environmental standards, coastal and marine management, and a national environment fund.
5.    The establishment of regulations for Implementing the Environmental Protection Act,
including those for Environmental Impact Assessment, 'now being initiated. There are therefore at
this stage no specific quantitative standards for air emnih s, effluent discharges, noise, and solid
waste disposal that apply to the proposed BEDP project. he Elnvironmental Assessment of the
project has therefore been done with reference to recognized environmental standards of developed
countries (USA, EC) and of the World Bank.
.Assessment Scope and Objectives
6.    The Environmental Assessment was expected to focus on activities incremental to the project,
namely: (a) the construction and operations of the proposed Union St. Aubin power plant; (b) road
transportation by sugar companies of up to 80,000 tons of bagasse to Union St. Aubin from
neighboring mills in the southern part of the country during crop season (July to December) and of
about 30,000 tons of coal by CEB from Port L.uis to Union St. Aubin during the intercrop season;
and (c) investments by neighboring mills in modernization of their mills to free up bagasse for sale to
the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory.
7.    The main objectives of the Environmental Assessment were therefore to:
(a)    assess the incremental environmental impact of firing greater amounts of bagasse at
Union St. Aubin during June through December and the potential environmental
impacts of firing coal during January to May, concentrating on air pollutant
emissions, bagasse and coal transport, water use, wastewater discharges and ash
disposal;
(b)    evaluate the proposed project against the alternative diesel project;
(c)    provide a model for assessing the environmental impact for subseqent BEDP
projects;
(d)   recommend potential mitigation measures to be assessed in detail during the feasibility
study; and
(e)   recommend an environmental monitoring program.
B. Evaluation of Project and Alternatives
8.    The environmental assessment indicates that compared to the alternative investment project
(the diesel plant) the proposed investment in the bagasse-and-coal plant investment would:
(a)   reduce acid gases (sulfur dioxides and nitrogen oxides) from about 4000 t/year to
1000 t/year, and green house gases in the form of carbon dioxide (CQ)) from 75,000



- 104 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of S
tons/year to 60,000-67,000 tons/year (depending largely on the coal burning efficiency
of the new power plant) with additional reductions of nitrous oxide emnssions;
(b)    double the particulate emissions from 1100 t/year to 2100 t/year without any pollutant
control measures, as a result of burning coal in the off season rather than diesel, but
that with the proposed air pollutant control measures proposed (see para. 9(b) below)
the projected increase would be from 300 t/year to 520 t/year; and
(c)   increase the solid waste from ash residuals of coal burning.
9.    The evaluation of alternative designs of the proposed project related to control of air
emissions, water use, waste water treatment and disposal, and solid waste disposal concluded that:
(a)   the costs of removing gaseous pollutants beyond that of specifying fuel quality would
be extremely high and do not warrant consideration of alternative controls;
(b)    a spray chamber of the kind locally used was suggested as an appropriate cost
effective minimum control for containing particulate emissions (expected particulate
removal efficiency of 75 percent);
(c)   the use of low-ontaminant process waste waters for the cooling towers should ta
investigated with the view to avoiding wastewater dischargs and provide water
conservation; and
(d)   recycling of bagasse a3 a soil supplement should be continued rather than discharging
into the sea; coat ash may be used in cement block manufacturing or for road
construction, and should not be used for soil supplement or as landfill without prior
leachate testing.
10.   The overall conclusion of the EA is that the bagasse-and-coal project is environmentally
superior to that of the diesel altemative. Impact analysis on air emissions suggested that the
probability of affecting the greatest number of people with the greatest emissions is higher for the
diesel project. It further showed that maximum impact on ambient air quality would be lower than
the World Bank Guidelines and the USEPA and EE1C standards. While water use under the proposed
project is expected to be higher than under the dlesel alternative, recycling and treatment can be
introduced. However, the general area of the project site has an abundance of water. Solid waste
associated with the project would be greater than under the alternative, but would find useful
recycling opportunities. Finally, the proposed project will lower current emissions of air pollutants
since bagasse currently burnt efficiently in mills without air pollutant controls would be burned at the
Union St. Aubin power plant using pollutant controls.
C. The Affected Environment
11.   The project site is on a gradually sloping plain between two rivers about a kilometer's
distance to the south coast on the island. Within a 5 km radius o the project site, the vegetation is
dominated by sugar cane. Since there are no native forests remnants around the plant side, it can be
presumed that impacts on native wildlife in the immediate vicinity will be insignificant.



- 105 -
Annex 12
Page 4 of S
12.   There are, however, forests remnants to the north-west of the site which are combined with
adjacent lands to create the 2400 ha Black River Gorges Forest Reserve. 2/ An area within this
part, located some 7 kan from the proposed power plant site, encompasses all of Mauritius' remaining
original forests, has the island's highest diversity of endemic plants and Is regarded as a most
important habitat for endemic birds. The importance of preserving the biodiversity of the park
resources is internationally recognized.
13.   The Environmental Assessment undertook to carefully model air quality impacts within an
area of 4 kn of the project site and within the Black River Gorges Forest Reserve, following
guidelines and air dispersion models approved by the Environmental Protection Agency of the United
States. The results indicate that air quality impact would not affect public health or welfare.
Regarding impact on the National Park area, the Environmental Assessment fnds that the expected
maximnam sulfur dioxide concentrations in the park would be a small fraction of the concentration
expected to cause injury to the natural vegetation. The phytotoxic effects from SO2 and NO2 on the
natural vegetation would be negligible. No effects to agricultural crops is expected from the predicted
emissions.
14.   Since the predicted maximum ambient air pollution concentrations are well below the known
effect levels for vegetation, no habitat loss and subsequent effects to wildlife are expected to occur
given the data available for modelling of air quality impact. No effects to the biodiversity and
endangered species of the area will occur from air emissions from the proposed facility. Impact on
water resources will be negligible and no adverse impact to the aquatic resources of the river systems
is anticipated.
15.   The analysis of transportation impacts (bagasse and coal transport) concludes that individual
road users will be virtually unaffected by either bagasse or coal transport. To minimize the impact of
transporting coal from Fort George through the Port Louis area, such transport should occur outside
rush hours. To assure optimal traffic safety when hauling bagaase, transport should occur only during
day time, and trucks be covered.
E. Environmental Mitigation Plan and Monitoring Programs
16.   An Enviromnental Monitoring Cell would be established under the BEDP Coordination Unit
which is to effectively serve as the secretariat for the BEDP Management Committee. The purpose is
to ensure that the mitigation measures recommended by the Environmental Assessment (para. 18-20)
are implemented and to initiate a monitoring program for the sugar industry covering stack sampling,
ambient sampling and water quality. This program would be based on directives from the
Department of Environment and over time be formally integrated into the national program for
environmental monitoring to be developed by the Department.
17.   The Environmental Assessment concludes that based on available data and modelling results
the proposed project will not have any significant adverse impact of the Black River Gorge Forest
Reserve. However, given the environmental sensitivity of this reserve with its endemic flora and
fauna it is essential that air quality monitoring and biosurveys and bioassays be carried out to evaluate
i/   Soon to be declared a National Park.



- 106 -
ADfl^_12
Page 5 of 5
actual impact during project implemnntation. lhe national air quality monitoring program, the
planning of which is currently being Initiated by the Ministry of Environment and Quality of Life,
will consider the Black River Gorge Forest Reserve as a priority area for monitoring.
Mitigation Plan
18.   Air Emissions. The recommended minimum level of parficulate control, i.e., 75 percent
removal, will result in emissions in excess of World Bank guidelines. However, air quality impact
analysis based on the minimum recommended air controls for the boiler shows that the impact from
the proposed facility would not affect public health or welfare. It also predicts emission
concentrations at levels which would make serious and signiifcant damage to flora and fauna in the
Black River Gorge National Park unlikely. No gaseous controls are recommended since both impacts
and emissions are below World Bank guidelines and EC and USEPA air quality standards. Regarding
fugitive emissions and dust, water spraying should be used in the coal storage areas to control dust at
the Fort George storage area and the proposed storage site. Bagasse should be stored in enclosures at
mills and covered when transported.
19.   Water and Solid Waste. Alternative mitigation measures related to water use and treatment
include: (a) use of silt screens and sedimentation basins to minimize soil erosion as a result of
construction activities; (b) minimize adverse impacts of discharge of ground water from site
dewatering by pumping water to a sediment setting pond prior to discharge; (c) adopt preventative
construction management techniques to minimize impact related to release of oil products or
hazardous materials during construction; (d) recycle plant water discharges for use in ash scrubber
system; and (e) control coal pile runoff by lining the coal pile area and directing runoff to a small
primary treatment system (addition of a caustic and a flocculent followed by settling prior to
discharge).
20.   Mitigation related to solid waste (i.e., ash, sludge and construction/operation debris) would
include: (a) continuation of bagasse ash management as currently done, and an ash settling area to be
constructed similar to the one used at Flacq United Estates Ltd. Sugar Factory; (b) recycling of coal
ash either in the manufacturing of concrete products or used in road construction (asphaltic concrete);
(c) land filling of demineralized sludge following neutralization of ph, while avoiding surface water
drainage and known ground water production areas; and (d) recycling of debris.
sedpsar.axl2gc
11/06191



- 107 -
Annex 13
Page I of 5
MAURITIUS
SIGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
hnplementation Schedule and Supervision Plan
A. Implementation Schedule
Key Actions Prior to Loan/Grant Effectiveness
1.    The following actions would be conditions of IBRD loan and GET Grant effectiveness:
(a)   the execution by the Central Electricity Board (CEB) and the management of the
Union St. Aubin (UStA) Sugar Factory of contracts covering the purchase of
electricity and sale of coal on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)   submission of appropriate documentation demonstrating (i) technical, financial,
economic, institutional Oegal), and environmental viability of the proposed power
plant investment component, based on the completed feasibility study, and (ii) the
securing of an overall financing package for the proposed investment, satisfactory to
the Bank; and
(c)   appointment of a Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP) Coordinator within
the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA) with qualifications and on terms of reference
that are satisfactory to the Bank; and
Project Implementation
2.    Following loan/grant effietiveness the actions to be taken are as indicated in Table 1.
B. Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Input
3.    Staff input indicated in Table 2 is additional to regular supervision needs for the review of
progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, and donor discussions (estimated for this
project to require 4 staff weeks during the first three project years, and 3 staff weeks per year
thereafter). Overall, Bank supervision would require on the average about 18 staff weeks per year
over the life of the project.



- 108 -
AnniA 1
Page 2 of 5
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
4.    The Borrower will be required to submit or to contribute to the followlng:
(a)  Semi-annual progress reports to be submitted as follows:
-   in the form as agreed with the Bank during negotiations
-   at the end of March and September of each year, and
-   by the BEDP Coordination Unit through the Management Committee; the
Coordination Unit will consolidate reports prepared by the various project
Implementing agencies including:
(i)  the UStA Power Plant Implementation Unit for the Power Plant
Component;
(ii)  the BOM/BEDP Coordination Unit for the mill investment component;
(iii) the (BETS) Study Team for the Biomass Energy Technology Study;
(iv)  the Rosebelle Sugar Estate Management for the Bagasse Transport
Technology Study;
(v)  the CEB for its program for training and laboratory expansion;
(vi)  the Environmental Monitoring Cell for the environmental monitoring
program; and
(vii)  the BEDP Coordination Unit for activities not falling in above categories.
(b)   Project review meetings with the participation of the various project agencies to be
held normally in mid-February and mid-August of each year. The meetings will be
chaired by Chairman of the BEDP Management Committee.
(c)    The BEDP Coordination Unit will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
Bank Supervision missions, and for overall coordination of information required by
missions.
(d)    Mission briefing on arrival, and wrap up meeting will normally be chaired by the
Chairman of the Management Committee, with participation of project implementing
agencies as mentioned in para. 4 above.
Organization of Review Missions
5.    Review missions will be led by the Bank's Task Manager for the project, and will as shown
in Table 2 Include staff/consultants in the areas of sugar technology, and energy contracting and
pricing. Given that project implementation will involve an interface between agriculture and energy
sectors, an energy specialist from the Banks Industry and Energy Division, Country Department U,
will participate during selective review missions.



109 -                                  Annex 13
Page 3 of 5
Table 1: ACTIONS BEYOND LOAN/GRANT EFFECTIVENESS
ComnIetion Date (Months
fter Loan Effectivenes
Dae or Anreed Date)         Aggency Responsible
(a) Establishment of Power Plat
- Award of contract for turbo generator and       October 1992                 UStAlMC "
boiler.
- Award of contraot for construction of Combo     October 1992                 UStA/CEB
substation and transmission line from power
plant to substation.
- Taking delivery of turbo generator and boiler   August 1993                  UStA
(completed).
- Construction of civil works and installation    October 1994                 ITStA
of equipment.
- Commissioning of Power Plant                    October 1994                 UStA
(b) MilI Investments
- Review forex applications relative to agreed    Continuing                   BOM
list of eligible items, and submit same to BEDP
Coordination Unit for technical vetting.
(c) Technology and Manpower Development
(i) BETS:
- Study Tour                                   July 1992                    CU '
- Preliminary trials (Stage I & DI)            October 1992                 BETS Team/Factories
- Preparation of tender documents for          February 1993                BETS Team
pilot residue handling system
- Procurement, erection and commissioning      July 1993                    BETS Team/Sugar Factory
of pilot handling system
- Operation of pilot system                    Nlovember 1993               BETS Team/Sugar Factory
- Evaluation and draft report preparation      January 1994                 BETS Team
- International Workshops                      February 1994                CU/UNDP Res. Mission
- Final Report preparation                     March 1994                   CU
(ii) BlTS:
- Procurement of equipment and vehicles        July 1992                    CU/Rosebelle Sugar Factory
- Testing of equipment and trial runs of       December 1992                Rosebelle Sugar Factory
bagasse transport
- Evaluation and preparation of draft report   January 1993                 CU/Rosebelle Sugar Factory
- Preparation of Final Report                  February 1993                CU
.1/ BEDP Management Committee
Vl BEDP Coordination Unit



Annex 13
- 110 -                                  Page 4 of 5
Completion Date (Months
after Loan -E-ffEtimenes
TDteM o_r Aereed Date)       Aaen  Ressonsible
(iii) Training Power Plant Staff
- UStA management visit to overseas power     June, 1992                   UStA/CU
stations
- Overseas training of shift engineers        March, 1993
- Traning of Turbo Alternator fitters         April, 1993
- Training of pipe and valve fitters          May, 1993
- Training of welders                         June, 1993
- Training in automatic controls - Phase I    August, 1993
-      a   - "    PhaseII         January, 1994
- Training of chemist in boiler water treatment  January, 1994               a
- Training of electricians                    January, 1994                  a
(d) Environmental Monitoring
* Appointment of Head of BMU (consultants)        June, 1992                   MSA
- Appointment of technical asistants              September, 1992              MSA
- Procurement of vehnicles                       June, 1992                    CU/MSA
- Procurement of monitoring equipment             December, 1992               CU/MSA
(e) CEB: Training and Extension of Fuel
Aalysi Laboratory
* Overseas training of teohnical staff for        1992                         CEB
boiler management and coal handling
- Construction of Fuel Analysis Laboratory        1993                         CEB
and procurement of equipment
(f) BEDP Coordination, Reporting and
Monitoring
- Formal secoadment of technical staff from       June, 1992                   MC
MSA and other Government agencies to the
Coordination Unit as per agreed Support Plan
- Procurement of vehicles and office equipment    June, 1992                   CU/MC
- Annual Work Programs (AWPs)                     May, 30, every year          CUIMC
First AWP (up to June 30, 1993)                September 30, 1992           CU/MC
Subsequent AWPs                                May 30, every year           CU/MC
- Semi-annual Project Review Meetings             Feb. & Aug. each year        CU/MC.
- Semi-annual Progress Reports                    Feb. 28 & Aug. 3 each year
CU/MC
- Audit Reports                                   Dec. 31 of each year         CU/MC
- Project Completion Report                       June 30, 1997



- 111 -
Annex 13
Page 5 of 5
Table 2: IBRD SUPERVISION - INPUT N1   KEY ACTIVITES
AiDDR t                            Ac&ivity                          Expected Staff         Staff
Date                                                             Reguirements           Input
1992
April         Pre-effectiveness and project start-up mission to  Task Manager                8
review conditions of effectiveness, preparation of  Sugar Industry Specialist
first year annual work program, staffing         Energy Economist
arrangements for BEDP Coordination Unit, and     (consultant)
organizational arrangements in BOM.
September     Supervision mission to review:                    Task Manager                 6
(i) procurem.nt under various project components;    Sugar Technologist
(ii) training programs; (iii) initiation of BETS and  (consultant)
BTTS and (iv) the work program of the            Environmental
Environmental Monitoring Unit.                   Monitoring Specialist
1993
February &    Two supervision missions to coincide with Semi-   Task Manager                 12
August        annual project reviews by the Management          Sugar Technologist
Committee and the submission of progress reports;  Sugar Industry Specialist
the mission to initiate preparation of annual work
programs.
1994
February       Supervision mission to coincide with BETS        Task Manager                 8
workshop.                                        Sugar Technologist
Sugar Industry Specialist
July          Midterm Review.                                   Task Manager                 10
Energy Specialist
Sugar Industry Specialist
Environmental
Monitoring Specialist
1995
February &    Two supervision missions.                         Task Manager                 12
August                                                          Sugar Industry Specialist
1996
February &    Two supervision missions, latter to prepare for PCR.   Task Manager            12
August                                                          Sugar Industry Specialist
and other experts as
required.
1997           Final supervision mission                        Task manager                  4
February



- 112 -
Ame
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lists of Eligible Imports for Mill Investments
Items
1.    Steam generating units (boilers), complete with all ancilliary equipment such as heat recovery
equipment (including economizer), draught fans and drive, air ducts, feed water treatment,
storage and pumping stations and instrumentation, grate bagasse feeder, etc.
2.    Bagasse handling and storage/reclaiming systems, including bagasse baling and transport.
3.    Bagasse drying equipment.
4.    Juice heaters, primary and secondary.
5.    Pre-evaporator and evaporator, and systems for vapor bleeding.
6.    Continuous vacuum pan.
7.    Replacement of steam driven prime movers by electrically driven movers.
8.    Turbo-generators: steam turbine drive, condenser, turbine instruments and control, speed
reducer, couplings, generator, generator control equipment, motor control centers and
accessories.
9.    Component parts, spares and intermediate goods required for erection, commissioning and
maintenance of the above equipment and machinery.



- 113 
Anex- 15
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents for Project File
(as of November 1991)
1.    Detailed Project Cost Tables
2.    Other Documents:
(a)    Report by Government's High Powered Committee on Bagasse Energy
Development (August 1991)
(b)    Draft Environmental Assessment for the Bagasse Energy Development
Program - Union St. Aubin Sugar Mill (September, 1991)
(c)    Mauritius, The Sugar Sector: Problems and Prospects, Report No. 5812-MAS
(March, 1986)
(d)    Power Sector Demand Forecast Study, Final Report, October 1986,
Government of Mauritius, Ministry of Energy, SWECO, Stockholm.
(e)    The Mauritius Energy Sector Investment Program for 1988-92, Ministry of
Energy (May 1988).



MAURMUS
SUGAR ESTATES
&mrr Cas Anu
-   Sugar -a- f
* Sugar Fodoirues
- M*i. Roo&s
I    Built-Up Aresso
--   lutfulonal Bffuudunuu                                                           7 
\  7    @         Z  MOS ~~~~~aSIR 
0    2    4    6    8B , a-
0       2        A        AV. TwMU-  -dP
. or /                  )       MN DESERT                                                       2 ? N (h.
.' AEDINE/,,% f{S(>rD
-2n'                                                                 9                                                                         g    \,2DW1 ]
, RWa.eiieon   ROS E_,I CHEh, - 
< , f > S S , */0 O* ''> \ tX wS i,~\tEN EAU 
_<   XBrE         ,,/          <     ~~~UNiON         O                     T      J   ....ssrIEI
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N : A A.'   FA
ST.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ F,
8   /\; 9 /  ff       ~~~~~cf-i.rV~>                                     _ wdRUSNh 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'O                                                      a  s/
E 2=/Dm~=   
a so_ar=e_ad _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,: La>  



