GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
-04L3 tAA5
Mcturitius
Sugar Bio-energy Technology
Project Document
February 1 992
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries lo protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme. the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the documeint.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate:       $1.00 =  MRs 15.5
$.0645 = MRs 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                      British
1 ha                       2.47 acres
1 km                       0.62 miles
1 kg                       2.2 pounds
1 metric ton               2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEDP          Bagasse Energy Development Program
CEB           Central Electricity Board
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GET           Global Environment Trust Fund
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30






MAURITIUS
SUGAR BIO-ENERGY TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of Mauritius (GOM)
Beneficiaries:      The Mauritius Sugar Authority, the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory and the
Central Electricity Board
Amount:             GET SDR 2,310,000 (US$3.3 million equivalent)
Terms:              Grant
Objectives:         To finance components under the Sugar Energy Development Project which
address technology development and institutional strengthening to support
adoption of existing and future sugar bio-energy technologies.
Financing Plan:
(SEDP)
(US$ million)
Source:                     Local      Foreign      Total
GET                           .7         2.6           3.3
IBRD                         -          15.0          15.0
Other foreign sources         .2        22.9          23.1
Local                       13.7         -            13.7
Total                       14.6        40.5          55.1
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Mauritius Sugar Energy Development Project Report No. 10037-MAS, dated
January 29, 1992
Map:               IBRD No. 19358R& Mauritius Sugar Estates






MAURITIUS
SUGAR BIO-ENERGY TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Background
1.    Since sugar was introduced in Mauritius in the seventeenth century, it has been the mainstay of
the economy. While its relative contribution to the Gross Domestic Product has been declining, it
remains the largest net foreign exchange-earning sector. A viable sugar industry is, therefore, essential
to continued growth and social stability. The Government and the private sector sugar industry agree
that growth from within the sugar sector has to come increasingly from enhanced use of the sugar by-
products. Use of bagasse--the fibrous material separated during cane crushing--and other sugar cane
residues offers the industry the opportunity to increase its value added and diversify revenue sources,
reduce the country's dependence on imported fossil fuels, meet a rapidly expanding demand for
electricity at low cost, and reduce overall air emissions from the power sector by displacing fossil
fuels. A successful partnership between the Government and the sugar industry has produced a
blueprint to realize this opportunity.
2.    In August 1991, the Government formally adopted the Bagasse Energy Development
Program (BEDP) the implementation of which will be guided by a BEDP Management Committee
consisting of representation from the sugar industry, government and local research organizations. The
BEDP envisages investments in power production and sugar mill improvements of US$80 million over
an eight year period. These investments would be required to effectively capture available bagasse,
with coal as a supplementary off-season fuel, for production of electricity, and are coordinated within
an overall least-cost energy capacity expansion plan. Second, BEDP sets out a comprehensive
institutional and policy framework. This framework defines the principles and modalities for energy
contracting and pricing of electricity by the public utility, the Central Electricity Board (CEB), from
independent power suppliers. The policy has been established that such power is to be purchased by
the public utility at the economically efficient energy price; the latter to be based on the cost CEB
would have incurred in producing power from its marginal unit (a 24 Megawatt diesel plant) were it
not to have access to electricity produced at independent bagasse and coal fired power plants. Third,
BEDP establishes priorities for technology development to promote efficient utilization of sugar
biomass for energy production, emphasizing cane tops, leaves and trash. The program will be
implemented through the cooperation between the industry, govemment and local research
organizations. The outcome of the program of trials and experiments is expected to guide industry
investments in expanding biomass energy development into the next century.
3.    Increased use of sugar biomass as energy in Mauritius will have significant environmental
benefits. Cane residues are now being wasted--bagasse is bumt inefficiently in factories as a means of
disposal, and cane tops, leaves and trash disposed of on some cane fields. The conversion of such
wasteful practices into efficient use for electricity production would eliminate air emissions, including
greenhouse gases, associated with the displaced fossil fuels. An environmentaUy beneficial strategy of
substituting domestic renewable biomass fuels for imported fossil fuels is consistent with the
Government's emphasis on development policies that will reduce future costs of environmental
degradation. Directives for such policies were established in 1988. A National Environmental Action
Plan has been adopted, the Department of Environment has been established within the Ministry of
Environment and Quality of Life to support its implementation, and the Environmental Protection Act
of 1991 provides the legislative mandate for implementing govemmental policies. However,
regulations for implementing the Environmental Protection Act, including those for Environmental
Impact Assessments, have yet to be established. Standards for air emissions will initially be set on the
basis of foreign norms. As data on actual emissions and air quality become available these initial



- 2 -
standards and regulations are expected to be modified. The Bank has assisted the Government in
developing the above institutional and legislative framework. Its implementation is now being
supported under the Bank-financed Environmental Monitoring and Development Project (Ln 3277-
MAS) and under the UNDP-fmanced project Institutions for Environmental Management (UNDP MAR
189/009).
4.    The Government has requested GET and IBRD assistance in launching the BEDP. In
response, the proposed Sugar Energy Development Project aims to: (a) expand bagasse generated
electricity production over a five year period from 70 to 120 gigawatt hours by constructing a bagasse
and coal fired power plant at the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory in southem Mauritius and improving
the efficiency of sugar mills in generation and use of steam; (b) promote efficient use of biomass fuels
from the sugar industry for energy production through technology development and training; and (c)
strengthen the management and coordination of BEDP by fostering effective collaboration between the
public sector and the sugar industry. All three objectives serve the goal of expanding the use of low
carbon emitting sugar cane residues for production of electricity in Mauritius, with its consequent
displacement of high carbon emitting fossil fuels. They are therefore directly related to the Global
Environment Facility (GEF's) scientific objective of reducing global wanning. GET support for
achieving the objectives would be provided under a proposed Sugar Bio-Energy Technology Project.
This Memorandum summarizes the objectives, main features, implementation arrangements, benefits
and risks of the proposed project, taking into account its role in the Sugar Energy Development
Project.
Project Objectives and Salient Features
5.    The GET project is designed to directly and indirectly support all of the above objectives of
the Sugar Energy Development Project. The specific objectives for the GET project are: first, to
develop or locally adapt technologies for handling and processing sugar cane residues emphasizing
cane tops, leaves and trash; and second, to strengthen the management and coordination of BEDP
implementation by fostering collaboration between the public and private sector in the management of
program implementation. The technology development part of the project is expected to extend the
production possibility frontier for sugar biomass energy. This will provide a base for planning a
second generation of investments in sugar biomass energy development in Mauritius beyond bagasse
and the year 2000. The institutional support will ensure effective management of the technology
development activities. Its main purpose, however, is to help integrate the private sector's plans and
decisions to invest in power cogeneration with the decisions of national energy planners and the load
management requirements of the public utility. By emphasizing such integration the project will help
bring the private sector's investment decision to fruition. This emphasis is essential, given that the
absence of coordination and consultation between the public and private sectors on issues of planning,
pricing and energy contracting has proven to be the major barrier to expanded generation of electricity
from crop residues throughout the world. Investments in power plants and improved mill efficiency
are by themselves viable in the context of national economic costs and benefits. Also, they are
financially attractive at efficient energy prices. Concessional financing of these investments is
therefore not justified.
6.    One of GEF's objectives is to demonstrate in suitable contexts the global significance of
technologies, techniques and policies for addressing potentially important global environmental
problems, in this case global warming. A central aim of GEF is to encourage project design with the
greatest replication possibilities to maximize the impact on global environmental objectives. The
potential savings in greenhouse gases from the Mauritian power sector alone are limited by overall
demand and the size of the population. However, because of its international reputation as an efficient



- 3 -
sugar producer, Mauritius provides an ideal global laboratory for testing techniques for agronomically
sustainable sugar cane harvesting and energy use. Replication of the Mauritius program for biomass
energy development would enhance the impact on the global warming objective. To this end, the
proposed project emphasizes intemational dissemination of project results based on the demonstration
of successful program implementation.
Components and Implementation
7.    The proposed five-year project at a total cost of US$3.3 million consists of three main
components: (a) development and adaptation of technologies for biomass energy production (US$1.6
million), (b) training of technical staff of bagasse-and-coal plants (US$0.3 million); and (c) support for
BEDP management and coordination, including environmental monitoring (US$1.4 million). The GET
would fund the total cost of the project, involving expenditures for the equipment and vehicles needed
for the technical studies, civil and mechanical works, laboratory expenses, consultant services, short
term training courses and study visits, and expenditures for an international workshop. A summary of
project costs and financing plan, amounts and methods of procurement and a disbursement schedule,
presented in the broader context of the Sugar Energy Development Project, are shown in Schedules A
and B. A timetable of key processing events is in Schedule C. Component contents and
implementation arrangements are summarized below with further details in two Technical Annexes
(Annexes 1 and 2).
(a)   Development of Bio-Energy Technology
8.    Two studies, involving trials and experiments, would be carried out. The Biomass Energy
Technology Study (US$1.4 million) (Annex 1, Part A) would determine the technical, financial and
economic feasibility of utilizing cane tops, leaves and trash for power production. Building on results
from other countries, it would assess the available cane residue base, determine the productivity of
alternative systems for recovering residues and evaluate agronomic effects of removal of residues from
the field, assess the feasibility of altemative systems for handling and buming residues in factory and
effects on the sucrose and energy balances, and evaluate the impact of air emissions under altemative
scenarios of burning of cane in field and biomass in factory. The study would be managed by a team
of local experts drawn from four sugar factories scheduled to participate in the trials, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Mauritius Sugar Authority, the University of Mauritius, and the Mauritius Sugar
Industry Research Institute. The team would be supplemented by consultants covering engineering
design and technical specifications for a pilot factory and an agro-business evaluation of study results.
9.     Following recent experimental work in the Dominican Republic, Hawaii, Puerto Rico and
Thailand on the use of cane residue for power production, the proposed Mauritian study will be the
main experimental work to get underway over the medium term. The Mauritian study team would
visit the above countries to finalize the study program and establish arrangements for applied research
collaboration. Also, an intemational workshop would be held in Mauritius in early 1994 to review the
study results with intemational research collaborators and other interested parties. Such a workshop
would broaden the interpretation of the results of the study. This would assist the Mauritian sugar
industry in deciding on implementation of study recommendations. Also, the workshop would
effectively disseminate the study results to the intemational sugar and cane power community.
10.   The objective of the second study, the Bagasse Transport Technology Study (US$0.2
million) (Annex 1, Part B) is to improve the cost effectiveness of bagasse transport though trials
aimed at reducing capital costs, increasing the load per trip, and efficient transport scheduling. The
direct responsibility for carrying out the Bagasse Transport Technology Study would be left with the



- 4 -
management of the Rose Belle Sugar Estate. The implementation of both studies would be supervised
by the BEDP Management Committee, assisted by the BEDP Coordination Unit (para. 12). The
Management Committee would approve work programs and the budget for the studies and be
responsible for the dissemination of results, including the organization of the international workshop
for biomass energy technology. The office of the UNDP Resident Representative in Mauritius would
be asked to sponsor this workshop.
(b)   Training
11.   Cogeneration of power at sugar factories using sugar biomass fuels and more sophisticated
boiler equipment requires strengthening of managerial and technical skills of power plant personnel.
The project would provide for 32 person-months of training for managers, engineers, chemists, fitters,
welders, electricians, and boiler and turbo-altemator operators from the Union St. Aubin Power Plant.
The training program would be planned, implemented, and evaluated by the management of the power
plant, in coordination with the BEDP Coordination Unit, and would be completed in time to
commission the plant in 1994. Details of the training program are in Annex 1, Part C.
(c)   BEDP Management and Coordination
12.   BEDP Coordination and Environmental Monitoring (US$1.1 million) (Details in
Annex 2). The BEDP Management Committee will plan and monitor BEDP implementation,
including environmental impact, advise on policy revisions, manage the program's technology and
human resource development activities, assist CEB and private power producers on energy pricing and
contracting, and disseminate program infonnation and results. The Mauritius Sugar Authority, an
agency under the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources, has been appointed as the
secretariat to the Management Committee. It was established in 1984 to coordinate industry groups
and advise the Ministry on sugar industry policy and planning. Supported by the Bank-financed Sugar
Industry Project (para. 18) the agency has implemented its mandate with increasing efficiency and is
gaining the trust of the private sector. A BEDP Coordination Unit, including an Environmental
Monitoring Cell, would be established in the Authority to assist the Management Committee in
implementing its assigned responsibilities. Project support for the above institutional arrangements
would involve consultant services, administrative services, logistics support (office equipment and
vehicles), and training.
13.   The Environmental Monitoring Cell would have two responsibilities under the project. First, it
would monitor the implementation of agreed mitigation plans by the power plant at Union St. Aubin,
and other bagasse-and-coal fired power plants. It would advise on any modifications of such plans
that may be justified to ensure environmental objectives. Second, based on directives from the
Department of Environment, the Environmental Monitoring Cell would monitor environmental
discharges to the air, water and land by the sugar industry. This would facilitate the continuing review
and appropriate adjustments to air emission standards as required under the National Environmental
Protection Plan. Annual work programs would be established in close coordination with the
Department of Environment of the Ministry of Environment and Quality of Life and the development
of the national environmental monitoring program. In the longer term, the role and functions of the
Environmental Monitoring Cell are expected be absorbed in the organizational structure of the national
environmental monitoring program which now is in its early stage of establishment
14.   Support to the Central Electricity Board (US$0.3 million). Under the project, CEB would
embark on an expanded program for contracting with independent power producers for bulk purchase
of electricity. Also, CEB is expected to enter into contractual agreements with such producers for the



- 5 -
supply of coal. To facilitate smooth implementation of such contracts, the project would strengthen
CEB's technical skills in boiler management and coal handling and quality analysis by providing
support for training (6 person-months) and the extension of CEB's proposed laboratory for fuel quality
analysis to enable the laboratory to adequately meet the requirements for such analysis in respect to
coal.
Sustainability
15.   The Government and the industry have taken a major step to initiate a comprehensive program
for biomass energy development. The success of this initiative and the sustainability of the program
depend on Government maintaining policies on efficient energy pricing and contracting and on
continued effective collaboration between the public and private sectors in program implementation.
Also, to support continued investments in cogeneration infrastructure using sugar biomass, the
development of bio-energy technology has to go forward. These requirements for sustainability are
precisely the focus of proposed project activities for technology and institutional development. Also,
project conditionality (para. 21) is designed to ensure that the private sector's continued need for
incentives is safeguarded
16.   A major component of the proposed project involves technology development through
experiments and trials. These are discrete and time-bound activities expected to be completed by early
1994. The project, however, is expected to establish a workable model for further cooperation
between Government, industry, and non-governmental organizations in other areas of bio-technology
development, such as storage and handling of bagasse for use in power production in the off-season.
Lessons From Previous IBRD Involvement
17.   The main experience from completed Bank-financed projects in the agricultural sector is that
the project design needs to carefully integrate investments with policy and institutional reforms. Under
the two completed operations (the Tea Project Cr. 239-MAS, and the Rural Development Project,
Cr. 419-MAS), problems in public sector operations helped shift focus to the potential in the private
sector through creation of an appropriate business environment. These lessons helped the Bank
orchestrate a series of interventions with a major effect on the restructuring of the sugar industry.
Under two Structural Adjustment Loans, major policy reforms were introduced to improve
incentives and efficiency. Consensus building was pursued through intensive dialogue with the
Government and the private sector during the preparation of a comprehensive sugar sector report.
The Bank helped through its Technical Assistance Project in the preparation of the Sugar Action
Plan.
18.   Assistance for the implementation of the Plan was provided under the Bank-financed Sugar
Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS). The project's main objectives are to increase the productivity of
resources and strengthen the financial performance of the industry through policy reform, and to
maintain social stability in the industry by increasing transparency and preparing the Mauritius Sugar
Authority for its role in policy planning and coordination. The project, now in its sixth and final year,
has successfully implemented these objectives and supported investments by private sector mills in
rehabilitating factories and upgrading technology at a total cost of about US$25 million during 1987-
91. The planning of BEDP has flowed out of the Sugar Action Plan building on the improved
business environment generated through policy reforms taken under the Sugar Industry Project. The
proposed GET financed project would bring the implementation of the Sugar Action Plan a step
further, reinforcing public-private sector collaboration through its focus and project design,.



6
Rationale for GET Funding
19.   The rationale for GET funding of sugar bio-energy technology development is directly linked
to the potential impact of such development on the substitution of renewable energy sources for fossil
fuels. Sugar crop biomass available worldwide for energy is about one billion tons per year (bagasse,
cane tops, leaves and trash) and may be expected to increase threefold by the middle of the next
century. Only a fraction of this energy is currently used. One widely proposed strategy for reduction
of greenhouse gases is to replace all coal use by biomass by 2050, in which case sugar cane residues
could provide 13 percent globally of the required biomass fuel. Cane tops, leaves and trash are almost
equivalent to bagasse in terms of potentially available tonnage and energy value. Sustainable
technologies for harvesting and use of these residues for energy is the focus of the proposed Mauritian
program. The GEF would be well placed to promote the intemational application of the applied
research program.
20.   GET funding for institutional support for management and coordination of BEDP
implementation is justified based on the direct and indirect capture of global benefits that such services
will enable. First, the BEDP Coordination Unit would manage the project's technology studies. These
research and development activities are of a non-proprietary nature, designed to maximize the
substitution of low carbon emission bio-fuels for higher carbon fossil altematives. Second, the Unit
would perform a third-party broker function to facilitate conclusion of power sales agreements between
private bagasse cogenerators and CEB as well as constructive collaboration between the parties. GET
support would help reduce high transaction costs associated with the creation of an effective forum for
such collaboration. Lastly, by serving as a focal point for the gathering and sharing of techniques for
sugar biomass utilization, the BEDP Coordination Unit would monitor, evaluate and report on project
performance and promote the intemational dissemination of the Mauritian experience. This role is
central to achieving GEF's global replication aims.
Agreed Actions
21.   The project constitutes an integral part of the Sugar Energy Development Project. Conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed IBRD loan for the latter project are: (a) the execution by CEB and the
Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory of contracts covering the purchase of electricity and sale of coal on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (b) submission of appropriate documentation,
satisfactory to the Bank, demonstrating that the proposed power plant investment, based on the
completed feasibility study is technically, financially, economically, and environmentally viable, and
that an overall financing package has been secured; and (c) appointment of a BEDP Coordinator
within the Mauritius Sugar Authority with qualifications and on Terms of Reference satisfactory to the
Bank. Satisfactory completion of the above actions is essential in demonstrating the Government's
commitment to BEDP implementation, hence the justification for cross effectiveness under the GET
grant. Other key actions agreed during negotiations include: (a) the Govenmment passing GET funds
as grants to the Mauritius Sugar Authority (US$3.0 million) and CEB ($0.3 million); (b) submission to
the Bank by September 30, 1992 of an Annual Work Program, covering all project components for the
period up to June 30, 1993, and including a staff support plan for the BEDP Coordination Unit,
satisfactory to the Bank; (c) submission by the Govemment of draft reports on the Biomass Energy
Technology Study and the Bagasse Transport Technology Study to the Bank for review by January 31,
1994 and January 31, 1993, respectively; and (d) completion of a joint Mid-Term Review by June 30,
1994.



-7 -
Environmental Aspects
22.   The GET project would indirectly, through BEDP management and coordination, support the
implementation by the private sector of investment decisions to construct bagasse and coal power
plants. The Environmental Assessment of the Sugar Energy Development Project, focusing on the
construction of a bagasse and coal power plant at the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory, concludes that
the proposed investment is environmentaly superior to the alternative of CEB constructing a diesel
plant near Port Louis. Total acid gases and greenhouse gases would be less than with another diesel
plant. Particulate emissions would increase from burning coal, but abatement measures would keep
such increments to a minimum. Air quality analysis shows that the impact from the proposed facility
at Union St. Aubin would not affect public health or welfare, nor would the facility endanger
vegetation near the project site or the vegetation and wildlife in the neighboring Black River Gorge
Forest Reserve. The Environmental Assessment was carried out as a joint effort between the
Government, the sugar industry, and local research organizations. Also, it reflects the outcome of
consultations with several local environmentally oriented non-government organizations. A summary
of the Environmental Assessment Report, including details of proposed mitigation measures, is
attached (Annex 3). It was presented to the Executive Board of Directors on December 19, 1991.
23.   The Environmental Monitoring Cell in the BEDP Coordination Unit would oversee the
implementation by the management of the Union St. Aubin Power Plant of the proposed mitigation
plan and establish an air quality monitoring program for emissions from the sugar industry. The latter
is considered essential as an input to the National Environmental Action Plan, leading to the
establishment of national emission standards. Appropriate arrangements are being put in place under
the National Environmental Action Plan to establish a national program for monitoring air quality.
Within this program priority will be given to coverage of the Black River Gorge Forest Reserve, the
environmental importance of which in terms of its biodiversity is intemationaUy recognized.
Benefits
24.   The prospect of concessional funding from GET has served to highlight the environmental
significance of the BEDP. As such it has already effectively helped to catalyze intemational donor
support for BEDP investments. This is evident from the considerable interest that intemational and
bilateral funding agencies have expressed to the Government and sugar industry in Mauritius for
supporting the BEDP. Effective mobilization of such funding, however, is dependent on the
establishment of a policy and institutional framework to support private sector investments; hence, the
incentive for the Govemment to complete such a framework (which was done in August 1991). GET,
together with World Bank support, would further help to bring about timely implementation of the
policy framework (para. 21).
25.   The Sugar Energy Development Project, of which the GET funded project would constitute an
integral part, has multiple benefits. On the agricultural side, the diversification by the sugar sector into
electricity production would strengthen the sector financially and make it less vulnerable to shocks in
the sugar market. On the energy side, bagasse and coal plants, the least-cost option for power
generation, would save the country foreign exchange (US$2 million annually at full project
development), and would mobilize private sector resources into infrastructure investments. The
economic intemal rate of return of the proposed power plant investment, estimated conservatively at
18 percent, highlights the gains from using a local renewable biomass fuel with essentially no
altemative uses, instead of imported fossil fuel, to generate electricity. Environmentally, and in
comparison to the altemative of CEB establishing another diesel fired power plant, the project would
reduce acid gases (sulfur dioxides and nitrogen oxides) from about 4000 t/year to 1000 t/year (75



- 8 -
percent reduction), and greenhouse gases in the form of carbon dioxide from 75,000 t/year to 60-
67,000 t/year (10-20 percent reduction) dependent on the coal burning efficiency of the new power
plant. The GET-supported project through its institutional support component would help bring about
all of the above benefits. These benefits are expected to expand in the longer term as a result of the
emphasis under the GET project on development of technology for use of cane tops, leaves and trash
for power production.
Risks
26.   Achievement of the objectives of the GET project is subjected to the risks of the Sugar Energy
Development Project. These risks are considered acceptable given that project design and up front
conditionality are formulated to reduce risks of project implementation failure. Nevertheless there are
the risks that, first, delays in implementation of the BEDP policy framework would induce the private
sector to postpone investments, and second, timely financing of the power plant would not be
forthcoming. The first risk is addressed by the conditions of effectiveness for the Bank loan and the
GET grant as well as by the GET project's support for the management and coordination of BEDP.
This support emphasizes the continuation of the Bank's role in fostering collaboration between the
public sector and the sugar industry. If the risk materializes and the industry were to postpone the
power plant investment, CEB would go ahead with its altemative slow-speed diesel plant, and the
establishment of the Union St. Aubin power plant would slip into the 1995 slot in the energy
expansion path. The second risk--lack of timely financing for the power plant--is not a serious risk
given the cunrent level of donor interest. In the event it were to occur, the proposed Bank loan would
not become effective, leaving the possibility open for renegotiation of such financing.
27.   The technical complexity of the project and the industry's capability to implement it are not
considered risks given that the production technology is well established and the industry has a proven
record of technical efficiency. Also, the Mauritian sugar industry has eamed intemational recognition
for its capacity in advancing sugar technology. Risks of incremental air emissions having adverse
impact on population, vegetation and wildlife have been estimated as acceptable, but monitoring
arrangements would be put in place to ensure that environmental objectives are not jeopardized.
Attachments:
Schedules
Technical Annexes



-9-
Schedule A
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(GET Components in bold)
PROJ CT COBS SwmAaRY "
Rs. M                          US5 M
Component                                        Local      Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign    Total
A. Establishment ot Power Plant
Engineering Services                             -       23.6      23.6         -         1.5       1.5
Construction of Power Plants                   72.0    267.8    339.8         4.6        17.3      21.9
Bagasse Transport                               0.4       7.4       7.7       0.0         0.5       0.5
Subtotal                                          777T     77T       7V7        -T7T        19.3 
B. Improvement in Mill Efficiency                 98.3    182.6    280.9          6.3       11.8      18.1
C. T-chnology & Staff Dev.
Baaasae Transport & Tech. Day.                  0.7       1.2       1.9       0.1         0.1       0.1
bioeazz  neorgy Tech. Dev.                      7.4      11.5      1S.9       0.5         0.7       1.2
Training Prog. for Power Plant Oper.             -        3.6       3.6         -         0.2       0.2
Subtotal                                         --T12    -IT,24. -y        T:T              1.0 
D. DPDF Progras Management
DEDP Coordination a 3Ev. Monitoring             2.1      12.6      14.9       0.1         0.6       1.0
Inst. Support to CUR                            1.1       3.4       4.6       0.1         0.2       0.3
subtotal                                           3.3      16.2      19.5        0.2        1.1       1.3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                             182.1    513.8    695.9         11.7       33.1      44.9
Physical Contingencies                          18.2      50.4      68.6       1.2         3.2       4.4
Price Contingencies                             62.4    160.9    223.3         1.7         4.1       5.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              262.6     125.1    981.9        14.6       40.5      55.1
a/ Figures may not add up exactly because of rounding.
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
IBRD         GET         Other Foreign         Local Y          Total
Components                                                                         Sources             Sources
Establishment of Power Plant                                -           -             23.1                 5.6            28.7
Improvement in Mill Efficiency                          15.0            -                 -                8.1            23.1
Technology and Staff Development                            -        1.9                                      -            1.9
BEDP Coordination & Env. Monitoring                                  1.4                  -                   -            1.4
TOTAL                                                   15.0         3.3               23.1               13.7            55.1
_/ Includes local financing institutions, industry, and Government.



- 10-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Methods Covering Components
Funded by tBRD and GET
(USS million)
Category/ltem                                   Procurement Method V
ICB       LCB        Other     Total
1. Civil Works                                     .15                    .15
1.15]                  [.15]
2. Sugar Mill                                                15.00      15.00
Machinery and                                            (15.00)    (15.00)
Equipment
3. Vehicles & Misc.                                           1.31       1.31
Equipment                                                 [1.28]     [1.28]
4. Consultant Services                                        1.00       1.00
[1.001     [1.00]
S. Training                                                    .82        .82
[.821      [.82]
6. Incremental Administrative Costs                           .05         .05
[.05]      [.05]
TOTAL                                              .15       18.18      18.33
(EBRD Funding)                                              (15.00)    (15.00)
[GET Funding]                                     [.15]      [3.15]     [3.30]
^' Figures shown in parenthesis ( ) and brackets [] are estimnated to be financed under the proposed IBRD Loan
and the GET Grant, respectively.
i Millers' commercial practices for category 2, shopping and limited intemational bidding for category 3.
(ICB = International Competitive Bidding; LCB = Local Competitive Bidding)



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Disbursements
Category                Amount of Loan Allocated      % of Expenditures to be financed
(US$ million)
IBRD Loan
Equipment and Machinery
for Sugar Mill               15.00                   100% of foreign expenditures
GET Grant
Equipment and Vehicles          1.30                   100% of foreign expenditures and
65% of local expenditures for
imported items procured locally
Civil Works                    0.15                    100%
Technical Assistance
and Training                  1.80                   100%
Incremental Administrative
Costs                         0.05                   100%
TOTAL                          13.30
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                93      94      95     96      97
IBRD Annual                    2.1    2.1    3.0    3.8       4.0
Cumulative                 2.1    4.2    7.2   11.0    15.0
GET  Annual                    0.9    1.3    0.7    0.3       0.1
Cumulative                 0.9    2.2    2.9    3.2       3.3
TOTAL Cumulative                3.0    6.4   10.1   14.2    18.3



- 12 -
Schedule C
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Processing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare project      12 months
(b)    Project Staff                  :  Lars Vidaeus, Gisu Mohadjer
C.N. Raghavan
(c)    First IBRD mission             :  November 1990
(d)    Appraisal mission departure        August, 1991
(e)    Date of Negotiations           :  January 15-16, 1992
(f)    Planned date of Effectiveness      June, 1992
(g)    List of relevant PCRs and          Tea Development Authority Project (Cr. 239-MAS)
Project Performance Audit          Project Completion Report dated December 16,
Reports                            1981. Rural Development Project (Cr. 419-MAS)
PPAR No. 3988, dated June 22, 1982.



- 13 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 10
MAURITIUS
SUGAR BIO-ENERGY TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Technology and Staff Development
Part A. The Biomass Energy Technology Study
Background
1.     Sugarcane biomass consists of four distinct fractions: the underground rhizome and roots
facilitate the development of the ratoons; the stalk free of the top and leaves is the millable cane
processed for sugar and bagasse; the green immature cane top and leaves removed from the cane
during harvest is left in the field; and the dead and dry leaves, known as trash, are also left in the
field. Except for a small portion used as cattle feed, the cane tops, leaves and trash (hereinafter
referred to as cane residue) remain a generally unexploited resource.
2.     It has been established that cane residue is almost equivalent to bagasse in terms of available
tonnage and energy value at about 4500 kcal/kg (8100 BTU/lb). The potential use of cane residue
for energy outweighs that of bagasse; unlike bagasse which is used in the sugar production process,
the entire quantity of cane residue is available for use in energy production.
3.     A number of issues have to be resolved prior to the commercial exploitation of cane residue,
such as its harvesting and transport, environmental aspects, storage, boiler design, and fuel mix. In
recent years important research has focused on these issues under the Biomass Energy Systems and
Technology Project, sponsored by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
and covering the sugar industry in Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, Dominican Republic, and Thailand.
South Africa has been engaged in similar research, and Mauritius has made some preliminary trial
experiments on a small scale.
4.     The Government of Mauritius and the sugar industry have jointly agreed under the Bagasse
Energy Development Program (BEDP) that the coverage of research on sugar cane biomass utilization
be expanded. 1/ In so doing the research program should draw on lessons learnt from experiments
undertaken in other countries, and help to adapt available technologies to the Mauritian context.
Summary of Technological Research
5.     Research has concentrated on the harvesting and storage of cane residue, an important issue
due to the large biomass involved. Historically, the cane industry has relied on conventional
agricultural harvesting machinery. Experiments in the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico have
1/   High Powered Committee Report on Bagasse Energy Development, dated August 1991
(Annex XIV).



- 14 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 10
established that conventional foraging systems (hay rakes pulled by 70 HP tractors, forage harvester
HP tractor and a chopper and blower) are technically and economically viable, but modifications are
needed to suit local conditions. Regarding storage, required to assure year round firm supply of cane
residues, recent experiments in Thailand proved both round and rectangular baling to be economical
compared to the cost of oil. The experience in the Philippines proved that while the baling per se
was successful, the experiment failed because there was no equipment to chop and shred the cane
trash to feed the boilers properly. A main conclusion emerging out of these adaptive trials is that the
optimal choice for a country will depend more on costs of labor and capital, size and configuration of
the holdings and ability to service equipment than on technical feasibility.
6.     The agronomic impact of removing trash from the cane field needs further research. Trash
facilitates fertilization and irrigation, suppresses weed growth and soil erosion, conserves soil
moisture in dry areas, and through decomposition adds to the general fertility of the soil.
Experiments in Puerto Rico suggest that 30-50 percent of the cane residues need to be left in the field
to maintain the organic content of the soil. The critical levels of residue retention for fertilization
purposes needs to be established on an individual country basis on the basis of estimates of organic
loss impact and costs of remediation.
7.     The design of the process of converting cane residues to energy has to address several issues.
Two key issues are: (a) the separation of field contaminants (stones, dirt, metal pieces) in the field as
well as in the plant and (b) the design of the boiler to accommodate bagasse as well as cane residues.
The USAID sponsored project (para. 3) found that while cane field residues can generally be burned
in bagasse boilers without significant boiler modifications, mixing fuels posed problems. While a
bagasse to residue mix of 6:1 created no problem in burning, a ratio of 1.2:1 created instability in the
boiler.
Recent Experiments in Mauritius
8.     Small scale laboratory and plant trials have been conducted in Mauritius by the University of
Mauritius and the Sugar Technology Department of the Mauritius Sugar Authority in collaboration
with private sector sugar mills. The first factory scale trial was held in the Highlands Sugar Estate,
where about 15 tons of cane residues were shredded and fed into the mill tandems. The juice fraction
and the fibrous portion were analyzed for characteristics, and the latter, mixed with bagasse, was
burnt successfully in the boiler. The juice portion was analyzed for brix and pol, and the fibrous
material for moisture content and calorific value. Similar experiments were repeated in two other
estates, Medine and Beau Plan, with increasing quantities of cane residues (50 and 150 tons). The
analysis of the fractions gave varying results, particularly as regards the moisture content, reflecting
varietal and geographic differences.
The Proposed Biomass Energy Technology Study
9.     Against the background of research in Mauritius and elsewhere, it is proposed to expand the
scope of research for fuller experimentation on the most effective way of utilizing this biomass
resource in Mauritius. In particular, it is proposed to combine the experimental approach of the
USAID project with that of the South African research program, by harvesting the whole cane, that is
without the separation of top and leaves, and feeding it to the milling tandem. If successful, this
would solve the problem of harvest and transport. However, careful experimentation is required to
study the effect on sugar production, boiler efficiency (and design), and field agronomy.



- 15 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 10
10.    Study Objective and Main Features. The overall objective of the study is to determine the
technical, financial and economic feasibility of utilizing cane residues other than bagasse for power
production. The main components of the study to be conducted over an 18 month period, will
therefore be to:
(a)   assess the available cane residue resource base for a variety of field conditions;
(b)   determine the productivity of alternative systems for recovering residues form the
cane field, and evaluate the comparative economics of baling and transport of residue
versus whole cane;
(c)   assess the feasibility of alternative residue handling systems required at the factory for
preparation of the residue and use in boiler;
(d)   evaluate the agronomic effect of removal of the residue from the fields; and
(e)   evaluate the effects of alternative systems for utilizing residue in the mill on the
sucrose and energy balances.
11.    The study will focus on the evaluation of two alternate methods of handling the biomass.
Method A will involve harvesting and transport of the whole cane to the factory, that is without the
cane residues being separated and left in the field. At the factory, the experimental processing of the
residue will be done in two streams: (a) separation of residue from the cane stalk, and after minimal
shredding and homogenization feeding it to the boiler, with the cane stalks processed in the traditional
manner through the milling tandem for sucrose recovery; (b) processing of whole cane in the milling
tandem, and the combined cane residue and bagasse mass will be fed to the boiler. Under Method
B, the cane will be harvested in the traditional manner that is with the cane tops leaves and trash
separated from the cane stalk and left in the field. These field residues will be baled, loaded, and
transported to the factory 3-5 days after the cane harvest, and fed to the boiler following the same
procedures that would be applied to cane residue under Method A.
12.    Approximately one third of all cane fields in Mauritius are burnt before harvest, either to
facilitate manual harvesting or to facilitate land preparation prior to replanting following the last cane
ratoon. The evaluation of the two handling methods will therefore consider the impact of burning vs.
non-burning of cane fields prior to harvest.
13.     Study Tasks. The study will involve the following tasks as grouped in field experiments,
factory trials, and overall feasibility evaluation and final report preparation:
14.    The tasks related to in-field experiments include the following:
(a)   assessment of the mechanical and/or manual cane cutter output;
(b)   raking and winnowing of the trash - with local adaptations necessary to minimize
the presence of contaminants;
(c)   cane loader output: experimental trials with whole stalk and chopped cane;



- 16-
Annex 1
Page 4 of 10
(d)   payload of the cane transport systems;
(e)   evaluation of agronomic impact of alternative cane residue recovery systems: soil
nutrient status, weed control, soil conservation, moisture retention, soil properties etc;
determination of the minimum level of residues to be left in the field, and the
consequential maximum amount of cane residue available on an average per hectare
for exploitation; and
(f)   assessment of alternative systems for baling of cane residue: rectangular vs. round
bales.
15.    The tasks related to in-factory trials include the following:
(a)   evaluation of the cane unloading, preparation and milling handling systems;
(b)   assessment of the quality (moisture, pol), calorific value, and combustion
characteristics of the bagasse-cane residue bio-fuel mix in different proportions;
(c)   the effect on boiler performance and stability of different fuel mixes;
(d)   assessment of the quality and quantity of juice and its processing characteristics in
relation to sucrose recovery; and
(e)   evaluation of alternative handling methods on the ultimate sucrose and energy
balances.
16.    The overall feasibility assessment, building on the findings under above tasks, will involve:
(a)   a comparative cost-benefit analysis of alternative residue handling and processing
systems, and recommendations for implementation of preferred system;
(b)   analysis of the financial rate of returns to proposed investments based on projections
of operating and investment costs for the preferred system;
(c)   evaluation of the economic costs and benefits of proposals for cane residue utilization
for power production relative to those for thermal power production using fossil fuels;
and
(d)   evaluation of the environmental impact of the proposed cane residue utilization and
handling methods.
17.     Costs and Financing. The cost of the study is estimated to be US$ 1.4 M, including
physical and price contingencies, of which US$0.6 M will be foreign exchange costs and US$0.9 M
in local costs. These costs cover: (a) equipment and vehicles (US$0.9 M); (b) study visit and
expenditures for an international workshop (US$0.3 M); (c) consultant services (US$0.1 M); and
(d) minor civil works, administrative services and study team allowances (US$0.1 M). It is expected
that funding for the study would come as a grant from the Global Environment Facility (GEF).



- 17 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 10
18.    Study Organization and Implementation. The experiments will be undertaken at four
different factories with cane from different agronomic and agro-climatic conditions: Belle Vue
(North; drought prone), Union St. Aubin (South; wet and cyclone prone), FUEL (East) and Mon
Desert Alma (Central). The experiments will spread over three stages. First, a one day trial run will
be made in each factory every month during July-September 1992. Second, a continuous 15 day trial
run will be made in the Union St. Aubin sugar factory. At these first two stages, the experiments
will be restricted to the comparative evaluation of processing whole cane in the mill as against cane
without the top and trash. Third, a pilot handling system will be installed at the UStA sugar factory
to separate the residue from the millable cane, and to shred and convey the latter to the boiler on an
experimental scale for a four-month trial during August-November 1993. Raking, baling, loading and
transport of the field residues, in the case of traditionally harvested cane, will be studied.
19.    The study will be conducted under the supervision of the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA),
in association with the University of Mauritius, Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute (MS1RI),
and the four private sector factories concerned. The Head of the Sugar Technology Department of
the MSA will be the leader of a multi-disciplinary team that will be drawn from the University,
MSIRI, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources, Ministry of Energy, Ministry
of Labour, and the sugar industry. The study team will consist of a total of twelve persons: Head
MSA's Sugar Technology Department (Team Leader), research assistants (2 each from MSIRI and the
University), sugar process managers (one from each of the four factories), agronomist, economist,
and financial analyst (from MSA or recruited as consultants).
20.    The Study Team would report through the BEDP Coordinator to the BEDP Management
Committee. The Management Committee would provide overall guidance, evaluate results and
synthesize recommendations for follow up action. The Committee would depend on a small Task
Force of senior Mauritian sugar industry experts for technical review of the progress and findings of
the Study Team. A series of six meetings of the Management CommitteelTask Force would be
required to cover the inception report and the preliminary trials at the factories. A further eight
meetings will be required to monitor the pilot handling system from design to evaluation during 1993.
21.    To facilitate the planning of the study and prior to the start of field work, the Study Team
Leader, accompanied by a representative from the Task Force, will be sent on a four week study visit
to Hawaii, Jamaica, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, and Thailand to visit sugar estates where
research work in this field has been undertaken, and to become familiar with programming and
evaluation techniques and the latest advances in technology and equipment. A key objective of this
study tour is for the Study Team Leader to review the proposed research program with colleagues in
the countries mentioned, and based on such review make appropriate adjustments to the study plan.
The visit will provide an opportunity to strengthen research collaboration between the Mauritian Team
and its international counterparts and to establish channels for appropriate dissemination of the results
coming out of the Mauritian program.
22.    To further strengthen this aspect an International Workshop on the Utilization of Cane
Residues for Power Production would be held in Mauritius at the beginning of 1994. The Study
Team would present its findings and recommendations, in the form of a draft final report, for review
and discussion by participants from international research teams engaged in similar research activities,
the local and international sugar industry, and Government. The United Nations Development
Program, through its Resident Representative in Mauritius, would be asked to sponsor the Workshop.



- 18-
Annex 1
Page 6 of 10
The detailed planning and organization of the Workshop would be carried out by the Management
Committee and the BEDP Coordination Unit.
23.    Reporting: The following reports would be prepared and submitted for review:
(a) Inception Report (May 1, 1992)
(b) Report on the trials in Stages I and nI (November 30, 1992)
(c) Proposals for the Pilot Systems Study (February 28, 1993)
(d) Progress report (September 1, 1993)
(e) Draft final report (December 31, 1993)
(f) Final report (March 1994)
24.   Implementation Schedule: The time schedule for the various activities under this component
will be as follows:
(a)  Study tour/Training                       May-June 1992 (4 wks)
(b) Stage I. Preliminary Trials
in four factories one day each
in each month: (12 in all)                July-September 1992 (12 wks)
(c) Stage II. A 15-day trial in
one factory                               October 1992 (2 wks)
(d) Evaluation Report Stages I and II          November 30, 1992
(e) Design for the pilot residue
handling system; bid proposals            February 28, 1993
(f) Procurement, erection and
commissioning of the handling system      July 31, 1993
(g) Stage III. Pilot system operation          August-November 1993
(h) Evaluation and draft report preparation   January 1994
(i)  International Workshop                    February 1994
(j)  Final Study Report                        March 1994



_ 19-
Annex 1
Page 7 of 10
B. The Bagasse Transport Technology Study
Background
25.   Bagasse in excess of a sugar factory's internal steam requirements can be saved for alternate
uses, mainly for energy and paper and particle board production. In Mauritius, the only alternate use
of bagasse is for energy production. In the absence of a centralized large power unit attached to a
factory which can draw on the surplus bagasse of satellite factories, bagasse is generally incinerated
as waste, since loose bagasse poses problems of disposal and is subject to spontaneous combustion.
26.   The saving, handling and transportation of bagasse for power production to the grid is
currently limited to a small quantity of about 20,000 to 25,000 tons a year. This quantity is supplied
by three factories to the Flacq United Estates Limited (F.U.E.L.) sugar estate, which has installations
for generating 20 MW of power year round from a bagasse-cum-coal fired power plant. A single
factory (Constance), located six kilometers from F.U.E.L. supplies alone about 85 percent of the total
amount of bagasse traded with F.U.E.L.
27.   F.U.E.L's entire bagasse requirement (own and imported supplies) is utilized during the crop
season with coal as the supplementary off-season fuel. The handling and storage systems are
minimal, and bagasse is stored either in loose form or in bales prepared with simple baling presses.
The transport of bagasse from supplying mills is done by tractor-trailer units, with improvised closed
box-type bins loaded on to the trailer. The average load per trip is 12 tons. For about 150 days
during the crop season, bagasse is transported at the rate of 100 to 150 tons per day by each of two
tractor-trailer units operated by a private contractor.
28.   In contrast to present bagasse transport practices, the proposed BEDP project encompasses
transport of about 75,000 tons of bagasse from mills in the southern part of the island to the proposed
bagasse and coal fired power plant at Union St. Aubin. Similar development are expected in the
northern region once the proposed power plant at the Belle Vue sugar factory comes on stream.
Given the role projected for bagasse in the national energy plan, a quantity of about 200,000 tons of
bagasse would potentially require transport to three 20 MW power stations attached to sugar mills.
This quantity would be utilized by the three factories during the crushing season, or within a short
period thereafter. It is therefore not considered economical to transport bagasse over long distances,
involving baling and storage for off-season use.
The Bagasse Transport Technology Study
29.   Objective and Main Features. Transportation costs are high in Mauritius because of the
limitations of the rural road net work (narrow roads, requiring small to medium size vehicles). Given
the dependence of bagasse energy development on the importation by power plants of bagasse from
neighboring mills it is essential to examine ways of handling, transport and storage of bagasse to
reduce the cost of imported bagasse delivered to the boiler. The objective of the study is therefore
to improve cost effectiveness of bagasse transport through a set of experiments and trials aiming at:
(a) reducing capital costs in transport; (b) increasing the load per trip; and (c) utilizing slack time in
traffic.



- 20-
Annex 1
Page 8 of 10
30.   With this objective in mind, the study would undertake the following tasks:
(a) Design of a dual purpose cane-cum-bagasse carrier. Currently cane is transported by the
sugar estates in 40 to 60 hp tractors hauling an average of 7-10 tons of cane in a trailer.
The bins used for loading bagasse are unsuitable for transport of unchopped cane from
the fields. A 17-18 ton container capable of handling both bagasse and cane would be
constructed, with the top closed to prevent bagasse from flying off into the open. An 80
hp tractor will be required for haulage. As the cost of such a tractor-container unit can
be assigned two-thirds to cane haulage and one third to bagasse, there will be
considerable savings through avoiding a separate bagasse-alone system.
(b) Densification of bagasse, to increase the trip load. Bagasse has normally a bulk density
of 250 kg per cubic meter. It is proposed to use a hydraulic compactor to compress the
loose bagasse in the trailer to at least 350 kg per cubic meter. The compacting of
bagasse lowers the fuel costs by about 30 percent by reducing the number of round-trips
for transport of bagasse.
(c) Transport of cane by day and bagasse by night.
31.   Organization and Implementation. The trials and experiments would be undertaken by the
Rose Belle Sugar Estate, under the supervision of the BEDP Coordination Unit and the BEDP
Management Committee. The procurement, installation and testing of the equipment is expected to be
completed by mid 1992. The trial runs of transport of bagasse will be held for about 75 to 90 days
during the crushing season July-November 92. The management of Rose Belle Sugar Estate will be
responsible for preparing a report to the BEDP Coordination Unit by February 1993, covering trials
conducted and a comparative evaluation of results in terms of costs per ton of bagasse transported.
32.   Costs and Financing. The capital cost of the study is estimated at US$ 145,000 including
contingencies, covering the acquisition of a compactor, a tractor trailer set and minor mechanical and
civil works to modify the hauling unit. These costs would be met out of the expected GEF grant in
support of BEDP Technology Development. The operating costs for the trials would be met by Rose
Belle Sugar Estate.
C. Training Program in Support or Power Plant Operations
Background
33.   With the F.U.E.L. sugar estate having operated a bagasse and coal fired power plant since
1985, Mauritius has experience of firm power co-generation from bagasse. The technical skill
requirements under the proposed new power plant at Union St. Aubin, however, will be of a higher
degree of sophistication given that this plant will involve high pressure boilers of 70 bars, as against
46 in F.U.E.L. and 25-30 in other sugar estates.
34.   Local institutions are not geared to the training and turn-out of personnel with skills required
for the operation and maintenance of such steam generation equipment. The F.U.E.L. estate has had
considerable difficulties in proper operation and maintenance, leading in the last two years to major
breakdowns in both the boiler and the turbo-alternator. Hence, it is critical for the success of the



- 21 -
Annex 1
Page 9 of 10
investment under the BEDP to install a training scheme for personnel at various levels in the Union
St. Aubin sugar estate.
Proposed Training Scheme
35.   The management of the Union St. Aubin sugar factory will implement a training program
involving staff in power plant operations, from the management level down to the technicians. The
scheme will involve 28 person-months of training at a total cost of US$ 270,000 including
contingencies. It is envisaged that the costs of training be met out of the proposed GET Grant for
Technology and Manpower Development in support of BEDP implementation.
36.   The training program will involve visits to and hands-on training at select stations abroad
(Hawaii, Reunion and France) which are well experienced in power generation in sugar factories of
the standards envisaged under the proposed project. It would be coordinated with the implementation
of the investment in the power plant so that trained personnel are in position from the start of the
plant, targeted for November 1994 (a chart showing the phasing of the proposed training is attached).
More specifically, the program would involve the following components:
(a)  Management training will cover the visit of four persons for a period of one month
each, to study the operations and management techniques in the Bois Rouge sugar mill,
Reunion; HCPC sugar mill, Hawaii; and a coal power station at Mazingarbe, France.
(b)  Shift Engineers (three persons) and one Production Manager will have on-site
technical training, 15 days for each in each of the above three stations (6 person
months).
(c)  A chemist will have one month's training - two weeks in Mazingarbe, France and the
rest in a suitable water treatment laboratory to be decided.
(d) Four boiler operators will attend a month's training course in Mazingarbe, France.
The course will focus on the operation of the automatic controls of high pressure boilers.
(e)  The scheme for the technicians in various disciplines will be as follows.
(i)   Pipes and valve fitters course: four persons, four months.
(ii)   Welding course for gas and electric welders will cover two trainees, for one
month.
(iii) Three fitters will be trained at the turbine supplier's factory for a period of one
month each.
(iv)   Four electricians will be trained in France for a period of one month each.
37.   The training scheme will be organized and monitored by the management of the Union St.
Aubin's sugar company, but will be administered under the proposed project by the BEDP
Coordination Committee. The first Annual Work Program for the project will include detailed
arrangements for training, including: (a) the qualifications and experience of the candidates to be
selected; and (b) detailed Terms of Reference for the courses to be covered.
gefMRVP.AX1/316/92



Figure I
POWER PLANT MANPOWER TRAINING SCHEDU)LE fTENTATIVEI
MONTHS BEFORE START UP
-24              -21         -19        -17         -15        -13         -11         9          7          -5          -3        I STARTUP POWER
I  .   l     l    l     l * I  I    I     I    I     I     I           I  I    *        a     a     a     a  I    ,     I    ,     , 
lJNE                                                              JUNE 1993                                                                JU,N .
1992                                                                                                                                       1994
>  (a) Visi ol power slallons for managomenl.
----   < --,---->               >><    >   (b) SHIFT ENGINEERSTRANING
HCPC - HAWAII                           Bais Rouge - REUNION               Mazingarbe - FRANCE
<-> <->-->  (c) Boiler Waler Trealment training lor chemist
FRANCE
,  <                                  c<-->  <--,>  (d) Automalic Conlrols training
Boai Rouge                              Mazingarbe
FREUNION                                FRANCE
<---------->   <------....>  l() Plpe A Valve Fimers Training
FRANCE
< ...    (I) Welding trainng
<--->   (9) Turbo Ahernator Filters TraIning
> ,    ....>    (h) Electrician Tialning                   >
Xx
U.0
0



_ 23 -
Annex 2
Page I of 3
MAURITIUS
SUGAR BIO-ENERGY TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Organizational and Management Arrangements for BEDP Coordination
Government Policy Directives
1. The implementation of the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP) will be guided and
supported by Government policy directives. Such policy directives cover energy pricing, regulations
governing sale of electricity to the Central Electricity Board (CEB), fiscal policy measures impacting
the viability of BEDP investments, and environmental controls. Based on an evaluation of progress in
BEDP implementation relative to objectives and targets, the Government will through the Economic
Subcommittee of the Cabinet periodically review the policy framework and as appropriate undertake
revisions to this framework.
The BEDP Management Committee
2.    A Management Committee will oversee and coordinate the implementation of the
Government's action plan for bagasse energy development and ensure that the Government's policy
directives related to BEDP are followed. The Committee will constitute the operational mechanism
within Government through which to bring about effective integration of Government's policies
affecting the sugar and energy sectors.
3.    To this end, the Management Committee has been established with representatives from
relevant ministries, parastatal agencies and the private sector. Specifically, the membership of the
Committee comprises representatives from the Ministry of Finance (Chairman), Ministries of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources, Economic Planning and Development, Energy,
Environment and Quality of Life, the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA), CEB, and the Development
Bank of Mauritius. The industry is represented by the Mauritius Sugar Producers Association, the
Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture, the Joint Economic Committee, and the Mauritius Cooperative
Agricultural Federation. The Executive Director of the MSA serves as the Committee's Secretary.
4.    The Management Committee will carry out the following tasks:
(a)  plan and monitor the implementation of BEDP and its individual project components,
evaluate progress in the implementation of the investment program, assess the impact of
government policy measures, and advise the Government on policy formulation related
to BEDP, particularly on fiscal measures impacting the viability of BEDP investments;
(b)  manage the Technology and Manpower Development Component of BEDP, involving
the following tasks:
(i)    administration of funds to be used for technology development and training;



- 24-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
(ii)    approval of annual work programs and disbursement of funds for individual
subprojects for technology and manpower development;
(iii)   coordination and organization of programs for training of industry manpower
in skills required to support the implementation of BEDP, and fund such
programs according to established criteria;
(iv)    review of progress in the implementation of individual subprojects; and
(v)    review and disseminate results of subprojects (see (e) below);
(c)  as required arrange for technical expertise in sugar and energy technology to support
the technical appraisal of individual investment projects involving power plants and mill
modernization for bagasse saving;
(d)   assist the CEB and individual power producers to come to contractual agreements on
power purchase which reflect the Government's policy directives regarding such
contracts;
(e)  serve as the focal point for dissemination of information and exchange of experiences
related to the implementation of BEDP; organize annual workshops to review progress
in BEDP implementation, involving the industry, the public sector, local and
international financing institutions, and local and international agencies concerned with
research in the areas of sugar and energy production or environmental management;
and
(f)   participate as required in negotiations with international lending institutions, establish
specific criteria for the utilization of funds made available from lenders for BEDP, and
certify the eligibility of individual BEDP projects for funding under financial
intermediation arrangements, as such arrangements may be agreed upon with
international lending agencies.
The BEDP Secretariat and Coordination Unit
5.    The MSA has been appointed to serve as the Secretariat for the BEDP Management
Committee. As such it will assist the Committee in undertaking the responsibilities outlined above.
To enable MSA to undertake this task its organizational structure and staff resources need to be
strengthened.
6.    To this end, a BEDP Coordination Unit (CU) will be established in MSA, to be headed by a
suitably qualified BEDP Coordinator reporting directly to the Executive Director of MSA (Terms of
Reference in Attachment 1) and with its own administrative support services. Technical staff from
MSA's various departments would be seconded to CU on a part time basis. Such secondment will
necessitate the strengthening of the staff of the MSA in its technical and financial departments to
ensure that progress in the regular work program of MSA is not impaired.
7.    Similarly, suitable arrangements for secondment to CU of technical staff from other
Government agencies, including the Ministries of Energy, Environment and Quality of Life, and



- 25 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources, and the CEB need to be secured. Furthermore, the
BEDP Coordinator is expected to work out appropriate liaison modalities with the Bank of Mauritius,
local financing institutions, the Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute, and the sugar industry.
Environmental Monitoring Cell
8.    An Environmental Monitoring Cell (EMC) will be established within the BEDP Coordination
Unit. It will consist of a principal environmentally trained professional (Head, EMC) and two
technical assistants. This cell will be staffed with consultants or fixed term employees and will not
form part of the regular establishment of MSA. Its tasks are to:
(a)  monitor the implementation by bagasse-and-coal fired power plants of agreed mitigation
plans, and as appropriate advise on any modifications that may be appropriate to such
plans to ensure that the environmental objectives underpinning such plans are not
jeopardized; and to
(b)  establish and implement a program for monitoring of environmental discharges to the
air, water and land by the sugar industry.
9.    The justification for establishing EMC in MSA at this stage is two-fold. First, the national
environmental monitoring program is presently being planned, and the detailed organizational
arrangements and delegation of responsibilities for monitoring will evolve over time. In the
meantime, environmental monitoring of BEDP implementation needs to proceed. Second, the
national monitoring program needs to be based on emission standards. These standards in turn need
to be determined partly with reference to information on present emission levels. MSA is best
positioned to timely gather such information in respect of the sugar industry. In the longer term, the
role and functions of the EMC is expected be formally integrated with the organizational structure of
the national environmental monitoring program.
10.   The establishment of EMC and the programming of its work would be done in strict
coordination and agreement with the Department of Environment of the Ministry of Environment and
Quality of Life. In particular, such coordination will consider the need to integrate the work program
of EMC with the proposed program of the Department of Environment (DOE) to develop a national
monitoring program. Annual work programs of the EMC would be established and agreed with the
DOE. Progress reports on the implementation of the work programs will be reviewed with DOE
prior to submission to the Management Committee. All efforts will be made to avoid overlapping
responsibilities and duplication of resources. The possibilities for EMC staff to use monitoring
equipment presently being acquired for establishing a national monitoring program will be explored.
The Terms of Reference of the Head, EMC, are in Attachment 2.
Attachments
Bedpsar\gef.ax2
3/6/92



- 26-
Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3
MAURlTIUS
SUGAR BIO-ENERGY TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for BEDP Coordinator
Introduction
1.     The Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA) serves as the Secretariat for the Management
Committee (MC) of the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP). The BEDP Coordinator
(hereinafter referred to as the Coordinator) will head a BEDP Coordination Unit in the MSA under
the overall guidance of the Executive Director. The unit will effectively serve to assist the MC in its
responsibilities which are to
(a)    plan and monitor BEDP implementation and its individual project components,
evaluate progress in the investment program, assess impact of government policy
measures, and advise the Government on policy formulation related to BEDP,
particularly on fiscal measures impacting the viability of BEDP investments;
(b)    manage the Technology and Manpower Development Component of BEDP,
involving the following tasks:
(i)     administration of funds to be used for technology development and
training;
(ii)    approval of annual work programs and disbursement of funds for
individual subprojects for technology and manpower development;
(iii)    coordination and organization of programs for training of industry
manpower in skills required to support the implementation of BEDP, and
fund such programs according to established criteria;
(iv)    review of progress in the implementation of individual subprojects; and
(v)     review and disseminate results of subprojects (see (e) below);
(c)    as required arrange for technical expertise in sugar and energy technology to support
the technical appraisal of individual investment projects involving power plants and
mill modernization for bagasse saving;



_ 27-
Annex 2
Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
(d)    assist the Central Electricity Board and individual power producers to come to
contractual agreements on power purchase which reflect the Government's policy
directives regarding such contracts;
(e)    serve as the focal point for dissemination of information and exchange of
experiences related to the implementation of BEDP; organize annual workshops to
review progress in BEDP implementation, involving the industry, the public sector,
local and international financing institutions, and local and international agencies
concerned with research in the areas of sugar and energy production or
enviromnental management; and
(f)    participate as required in negotiations with international lending institutions, establish
specific criteria for the utilization of funds availed from lenders for BEDP, and
certify the eligibility of individual BEDP projects for funding under financial
intermediation arrangements, as such arrangements may be agreed upon with
international lending agencies.
Coordinator's Responsibilities
2.      The Coordinator will be responsible directly to the Executive Director of MSA. The latter
serves as Secretary on the MC, and the Coordinator's role is to assist the Executive Director in that
capacity.
3.      Hence, his main day to day responsibilities will be to:
(a)    establish a work program for CU based on MC's tasks as shown above;
(b)    mobilize human and other resources required to carry out the tasks within the
established work program; such resources being accessible within CU, on
secondment from MSA's other departments to CU, or on secondment to CU from
other Government agencies;
(c)    program, coordinate, and oversee the work of CU staff and seconded staff; and
(d)    report to the Executive Director on the output and progress of CU's work program,
as agreed with the Director.
(e)   liaise with the Sugar Technology Advisory Committee of the MSA as required.
Qualifications
4.      The Coordinator position is a full-time position. It will be filled by a person who has the
ability to effectively organize CU's work program and timely deliver its outputs to the Executive
Director. The person should have the following qualifications:
(a)   formal training in either financial management, public administration, (or possibly
sugar technology);



- 28-
Annex 2
Attachment I
Page 3 of 3
(b)    demonstrated management experience at senior level within the public sector or
industry;
(c)    ability to work in a multi-disciplinary environment and effectively interact with
officials across agency lines; and
(d)    excellent oral and written communication skills.
bedpsar\gefax2.at1
3/6/92



- 29-
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page I of 2
MAURITIUS
SUGAR BIO-ENERGY TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Head, Environmental Monitoring Cell
Introduction
1.    The Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA) serves as the Secretariat for the Management
Committee of the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP). To enable MSA to execute
this responsibility, a BEDP Coordination Unit will be established in MSA.
2.    One of the responsibilities of the Management Committee is to ensure that
Government policy directives regarding bagasse energy development are implemented. Such
directives relate inter ali to environmental monitoring of BEDP implementation. Hence, an
Environmental Monitoring Unit (EMC) will be established within the BEDP Coordination
Unit.
3.    The objectives for the EMC are to:
(a)    monitor the implementation by bagasse-and-coal fired power plants of agreed
mitigation plans, and as appropriate advise on any modifications that may be
appropriate to such plans to ensure that the environmental objectives
underpinning such plans are not jeopardized; and
(b)    based on directives from the Department of Environment (DOE) and under the
guidance of DOE establish and implement a program for monitoring of
environmental discharges to the air, water and land by the sugar industry, and
by doing so facilitate the continuing review of appropriate air emission
standards required under the National Environmental Action Plan.
4.    The EMC will be headed by a professionally trained environmental specialist, as a
long term consultant, and two technical assistants.
Responsibilities of Head, EMC
.5.    The Head, EMC, will report through the BEDP Coordinator to the Executive Director
of MSA, the latter serving as the Secretary to the BEDP Management Committee. The
Head's overall responsibility is to ensure that the objectives for EMC are effectively
accomplished.



- 30-
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
6.    The Head EMC, will be responsible for establishing and implementing EMC's work
programs and associated budgets with reference to three general areas, namely:
(a)    monitoring of the implementation by power plants of mitigation plans agreed
to ensure minimum levels of emissions and effluent, covering: (i) emissions of
particulate and gases; (ii) water quality; (iii) solid waste disposal; and (iv)
occupational safety and health;
(b)    air monitoring, involving stack sampling (using standard isokinetic
procedures) and ambient air quality (using high volume sampling) to be
performed primarily for particulate matter; such monitoring to cover the
appropriate sampling procedures the entire sugar milling sector; and
(c)   integration of the findings under (a) and (b) into the implementation of the
National Environmental Action Plan, particularity as it relates to the
establishment of emission standards.
7.    The Head, EMC, will carry out his/her responsibilities in close coordination and
liaison with the Department of Environment (DOE) within the Ministry of Environment and
Quality of Life. Work programs and associated budgets shall be agreed with the DOE prior
to submission to the BEDP Management Committee. Similarly, progress reports shall be
reviewed with DOE prior to presentation to the Management Committee.
Qualifications
8.    The Head, EMC, is a full time position. It will be filled by a person with the
following qualifications:
(a)   formal training in environmental science, chemical ecology, atmospheric
science or water pollution control;
(b)    demonstrated experience in air and water sampling techniques, and chemical
analysis of pollutants; and
(c)    ability to work in a multi-disciplinary environment and effectively interact
with officials across agency lines.
bedpsar\gefax2.at2
3/6/92



- 31 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
MAURITIUS
SUGAR BIO-ENERGY TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Proposed Establishment of Bagasse and Coal Power Plant
at the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory
Environmental Assessment - Summary 1/
Project Objectives
1.      The objective of the Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP) and the implementation
of its first phase at the Union St. Aubin Sugar Sugar Factory is to provide additional generating
capacity of 22MW and supply about 136 GWH of electrical power in 1994. Without the project, the
incremental energy demand in Mauritius would have to be met through the establishment of a 24MW
diesel fired electricity generating plant operated by the Central Electricity Board (CEB). Also,
bagasse would continue to be wastefully burnt by sugar factories rather than used for power
generation. Hence, a key aspect of the proposed project is to capitalize on the opportunity for
converting wasteful use of an indigenous renewable biomass fuel into efficient use for production of
electricity.
2.      With the project, bagasse rather than being wasted would be used for firing the power plant
at Union St. Aubin during the crop season, using coal during the intercrop season. Bagasse would
replace diesel during July-December while coal would replace diesel during the remainder of the year.
The incremental net reduction in total fuel burnt, brought about by the project (i.e. "with project"
requirements less "without project" requirements), is represented by the quantity of diesel which CEB
would use to fire its diesel plant during the period July-December (estimated at about 14,000 tons
annually).
Environmental Policy and Regulations
3.      Mauritius lacked a national environmental policy for the protection of the enviromnent and
natural resources until November 1988. At that time the Government adopted an outline policy
setting forth environmental goals, directions and guidance. The National Environment Commission
was established to coordinate environmental policies, and has since approved a National
Environmental Action Plan and a White Paper on National Environmental Policy. A Department of
Environment was established within the Ministry of Environment and Land Use (now Ministry of
Environment and Quality of Life) as an administrative agency in support of the implementation of the
National Environmental Action Plan.
I/    A fill environmcntal anwsament is provided in 'Report on the Environmental Asssment for the Bagusse Energy Development
Program - Union St. Aubin Sugar Mill', isued by the Government of Mauritius' Technical Committee on Bagasu Energy
Development in September 1991.



- 32-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
4.      In July, 1991 the Mauritian Parliament enacted the Environment Protection Act of 1991.
This Act provides the legislative mandate implementing governmental policies. It provides authority
for enforcement, environmental impact assessments, spill and environmental emergencies, national
environmental standards, coastal and marine management, and a national environment fund.
5.      The establishment of regulations for implementing the Environmental Protection Act,
including those for Environmental Impact Assessments, is now being initiated. There are therefore at
this stage no specific quantitative standards for air emissions, effluent discharges, noise, and solid
waste disposal that apply to the proposed BEDP project. The Environmental Assessment of the
project has therefore been done with reference to recognized environmental standards of developed
countries (USA, EC) and of the World Bank.
Assessment Scope and Objectives
6.      The Environmental Assessment was expected to focus on activities incremental to the
project, namely: (a) the construction and operations of the proposed Union St. Aubin power plant; (b)
road transportation by sugar companies of up to 80,000 tons of bagasse to Union St. Aubin from
neighboring mills in the southern part of the country during crop season (July-December) and of
about 30,000 tons of coal by CEB from Port Louis to Union St. Aubin during the intercrop season;
and (c) investments by neighboring mills in modernization of their mills to free up bagasse for sale to
the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory.
7.      The main objectives of the Environmental Assessment were therefore to:
(a)   assess the incremental environmental impact of firing greater amounts of bagasse at
Union St. Aubin during June through December and the potential environmental
impacts of firing coal during January to May, concentrating on air pollutant
emissions, bagasse and coal transport, water use, wastewater discharges and ash
disposal;
(b)   evaluate the proposed project against the alternative diesel project;
(c)   provide a model for assessing the environmental impact for subsequent BEDP
projects;
(d)   recommend potential mitigation measures to be assessed in detail during the
feasibility study; and
(e)   recommend an environmental monitoring program.
B. Evaluation of Project and Alternatives
8.      The environmental assessment indicates that compared to the alternative investment project
(the diesel plant) the proposed investment in the bagasse-cum-coal plant investment would:
(a)   reduce acid gases (sulfur dioxides and nitrogen oxides) from about 4000 t/year to
1000 t/year, and green house gases in the form of carbon dioxide (CO>) from 75,000



- 33-
Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
tons/year to 60,000-67,000 tons/year (depending largely on the coal burning
efficiency of the new power plant) with additional reductions of nitrous oxide
emissions;
(b)   double the particulate emissions from 1100 t/year to 2100 t/year without any
pollutant control measures, as a result of burning coal in the off season rather than
diesel, but that with the proposed air pollutant control measures proposed (see para.
9(b) below) the projected increase would be from 300 t/year to 520 t/year; and
(c)   increase the solid waste from ash residuals of coal burning.
9.      The evaluation of alternative designs of the proposed project related to control of air
emissions, water use, waste water treatment and disposal, and solid waste disposal concluded that:
(a)   the costs of removing gaseous pollutants beyond that of specifying fuel quality would
be extremely high and do not warrant consideration of alternative controls;
(b)   a spray chamber of the kind locally used was suggested as an appropriate cost
effective minimum control for containing particulate emissions (expected particulate
removal efficiency of 75 percent);
(c)   the use of low-contaminant process waste waters for the cooling towers should be
investigated with the view to avoiding wastewater discharges and provide water
conservation; and
(d)   recycling of bagasse as a soil supplement should be continued rather than
discharging into the sea; coal ash may be used in cement block manufacturing or for
road construction, and should not be used for soil supplement or as landfill without
prior leachate testing.
10.     The overall conclusion of the EA is that the bagasse-and-coal project is environmentally
superior to that of the diesel alternative. Impact analysis on air emissions suggested that the
probability of affecting the greatest number of people with the greatest emissions is higher for the
diesel project. It further showed that maximum impact on ambient air quality would be lower than
the World Bank Guidelines and the USEPA and EEC standards. While water use under the proposed
project is expected to be higher than under the diesel alternative, recycling and treatment can be
introduced. However, the general area of the project site has an abundance of water. Solid waste
associated with the project would be greater than under the alternative, but would find useful
recycling opportunities. Finally, the proposed project will lower current emissions of air pollutants
since bagasse currently burnt efficiently in mills without air pollutant controls would be burned at the
Union St. Aubin power plant using pollutant controls.
C. The Affected Environment
11.     The project site is on a gradually sloping plain between two rivers about a kilometer's
distance to the south coast on the island. Within a 5 km radius of the project site, the vegetation is



- 34-
Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
dominated by sugar cane. Since there are no native forests remnants around the plant side, it can be
presumed that impacts on native wildlife in the immediate vicinity will be insignificant.
12.     There are, however, forests remnants to the north-west of the site which are combined with
adjacent lands to create the 2400 ha Black River Gorges Forest Reserve. 2/ An area within this
part, located some 7 km from the proposed power plant site, encompasses all of Mauritius' remaining
original forests, has the island's highest diversity of endemic plants and is regarded as a most
important habitat for endemic birds. The importance of preserving the biodiversity of the park
resources is internationally recognized.
13.     The Environmental Assessment undertook to carefully model air quality impacts within an
area of 4 km of the project site and within the Black River Gorges Forest Reserve, following
guidelines and air dispersion models approved by the Environmental Protection Agency of the United
States. The results indicate that air quality impact would not affect public health or welfare.
Regarding impact on the National Park area, the Environmental Assessment finds that the expected
maximum sulfur dioxide concentrations in the park would be a small fraction of the concentration
expected to cause injury to the natural vegetation. The phytotoxic effects from S02 and NO2 on the
natural vegetation would be negligible. No effects to agricultural crops is expected from the predicted
emissions.
14.     Since the predicted maximum ambient air pollution concentrations are well below the
known effect levels for vegetation, no habitat loss and subsequent effects to wildlife are expected to
occur given the data available for modelling of air quality impact. No effects to the biodiversity and
endangered species of the area will occur from air emissions from the proposed facility. Impact on
water resources will be negligible and no adverse impact to the aquatic resources of the river systems
is anticipated.
15.     The analysis of transportation impacts (bagasse and coal transport) concludes that individua!
road users will be virtually unaffected by either bagasse or coal transport. To minimize the impact of
transporting coal from Fort George through the Port Louis area, such transport should occur outside
rush hours. To assure optimal traffic safety when hauling bagasse, transport should occur only during
day time, and trucks be covered.
E. Environmental Mitigation Plan and Monitoring Programs
16.     An Environmental Monitoring Cell would be established under the BEDP Coordination Unit
which is to effectively serve as the secretariat for the BEDP Management Committee. The purpose is
to ensure that the mitigation measures recommended by the Environmental Assessment (para. 18-20)
are implemented and to initiate a monitoring program for the sugar industry covering stack sampling,
ambient sampling and water quality. This program would be based on directives from the
Department of Environment and over time be formally integrated into the national program for
environmental monitoring to be developed by the Department.
2/      Soon to be declared a National Park.



- 35 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
17.     The Environmental Assessment concludes that based on available data and modelling results
the proposed project will not have any significant adverse impact of the Black River Gorge Forest
Reserve. However, given the environmental sensitivity of this reserve with its endemic flora and
fauna it is essential that air quality monitoring and biosurveys and bioassays be carried out to evaluate
actual impact during project implementation. The national air quality monitoring program, the
planning of which is currently being initiated by the Ministry of Environment and Quality of Life,
will consider the Black River Gorge Forest Reserve as a priority area for monitoring.
Mitigation Plan
18.     Air Emissions. The recommended minimum level of particulate control, i.e. 75 percent
removal, will result in emissions in excess of World Bank guidelines. However, air quality impact
analysis based on the minimum recommended air controls for the boiler shows that the impact from
the proposed facility would not affect public health or welfare. It also predicts emission
concentrations at levels which would make serious and significant damage to flora and fauna in the
Black River Gorge National Park unlikely. No gaseous controls are recommended since both impacts
and emissions are below World Bank guidelines and EC and USEPA air quality standards. Regarding
fugitive emissions and dust, water spraying should be used in the coal storage areas to control dust at
the Fort George storage area and the proposed storage site. Bagasse should be stored in enclosures at
mills and covered when transported.
19.     Water and Solid Waste. Alternative mitigation measures related to water use and
treatment include: (a) use of silt screens and sedimentation basins to minimize soil erosion as a result
of construction activities; (b) minimize adverse impacts of discharge of ground water from site
dewatering by pumping water to a sediment settling pond prior to discharge; (c) adopt preventative
construction management techniques to minimize impact related to release of oil products or
hazardous materials during construction; (d) recycle plant water discharges for use in ash scrubber
system; and (e) control coal pile runoff by lining the coal pile area and directing runoff to a small
primary treatment system (addition of a caustic and a flocculent followed by settling prior to
discharge).
20.     Mitigation related to solid waste (i.e. ash, sludge and construction/operation debris) would
include: (a) continuation of bagasse ash management as currently done, and an ash settling area to be
constructed similar to the one used at Flacq United Estates Ltd. Sugar Factory; (b) recycling of coal
ash either in the manufacturing of concrete products or used in road construction (asphaltic concrete);
(c) land filling of demineralized sludge following neutralization of ph, while avoiding surface water
drainage and known ground water production areas; and (d) recycling of debris.






1-  5760                                                                             5r.5
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ESTATES
200Y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,u*0
Sugar Cone Ares-
Sugor Esmate Boundries/
Sugar F-coaries
Motrays/ s                                                                    LLE
Main Roads                                                                   VE
|  !! -   R,ilt.Up Areas
---International Bo0undaries t 5 
2013  2,4          001-fi
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55
~~ I .\ } ~MON DESERT/   Y \
MEDINE t                             -HdLA                                                                                                 'E.. DouDc
20'1s                                                                                                                        4Eb-5  1                                            20-ls
tou          - _~REUNION rA=
. ) . l ' \ NOUVELt3<- ( \ \ 'OUVE
kole NMrle       \S                     ~~~~~~~FRANCE   g\  x         \           ' 
/< > ' T _ _ i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAHEeOURG
. /   4''N                       l.\                      W                    AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~L R
/                 -     \       )     -   \        ^   '.\SAVAN~~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NA  5M N                 r4S'
BEL OMBRE                                ,          UNION                                             E    T   *      /50"ie
\  a            -  usr  AUBIN                 x         t 2       t                  D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F,A C
n~~~~                                                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K   UN) I   CC,"
iii mogb do f t1os Phnd ez eh_ T 4i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IUNION (F,  
                                                   arwo    n f  ' P~~~~~. or azcb bovinr5_                                                                            X c






/



Mauritius
US$ 15
@     Printed on recycled paper



