Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17328
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 3458-MAS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST - MAURITIUS SUGAR BIO-ENERGY
TRUST FUND 28603
January 30, 1998
Country Department 8
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At project appraisal (September 1991): US$ 1.00 = MRs 15.5
US$ 0.0645 = MRs 1.00
At project completion (December 1996): US $ 1.00 = MRs
US $ = MRs 1.00
GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS; FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEAS URES
I kilometer (kin)             0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)               2.20 pounds
1 metric ton                  2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEDP                  Bagasse Energy Development Program
BEDPMC                Bagasse Energy Development Program Management Committee
CCGT                  Combined cycle gas turbine
CEB                   Central Electricity Board
CTBV                  Centrale Thermique de Belle Vue
EC                    European Community
EIB                   European Investment Bank
IERR                  Internal economic rate of return
ESMAP                 Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
IFRR                  Internal financial economic rate of return
FUEL                  Flacq United Estates Limited
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GET                   Global Environment Trust
GOM                   Government of Mauritius
Gwh                   Gigawatt hour
IBRD                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IPP                   Independent Power Producer
LRMC                  Long-Run Marginal Cost of Electricity Supply
Kwh                   Kilowatt hour
MSA                   Mauritius Sugar Authority
MRs                   Mauritian Rupees
MW                    Megawatt
Mwh                   Megawatt hour
SAL                   Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP                   Sugar Action Plan
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
SEDP                  Sugar Energy Development Project
SIDP                  Sugar Industry Development Project
UStA                  Union St. Aubin Sugar Mill
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Michael Sarris
Task Manager:  Manorama Gotur
ICR prepared by: Matthew Mitchell, consultant



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DE'IELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 3458-MAS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST -- MAURITIUS SUGAR BIO-ENERGY
TRUST FUND 28603
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                  .......................................................................
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Introduction                   ................................................ 1
B.     Statemert of Project Objectives and Description of Components .....................................2
C.    Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design ................. ..............................3
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives .........5......................................5
E.     Implementation Experience    .........8......................................8
F.     Bank Performance             ............................................... 11
G.    Borrower Performance          ............................................... 13
H.    Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operations ............................................... 14
I.     Lessons Learned               ............................................... 15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
Appendix A:  Operational Plan
Appendix B:  Project Assessment by the Borrower
MAP:          IBRD Map No. 19358R (Mauritius Sugar Estates)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 3458-MAS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST -- MAURITIUS SUGAR BIO-ENERGY
TRUST FUND 28603
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mauritius Sugar
Energy Development Project, for which Loan 3458-MAS (US$15 million) was approved
on March 31, 1992. Components of the project financed under the Global Environment
Trust Fund 28603 (US$ 3.3 million equivalent) are also covered by this ICR. The GET
was effective in July 1, 1992; the Loan became effective on December 28, 1993. The
Government of Mauritius was the Borrower and Trust Fund recipient.
The Loan for the project closed on December 31, 1996, and the GET component,
on December 31, 1997. Total disbursements on the loan amounted to US$ 6.0 million or
40 percent of the original loan amount. The remaining US$ 9.0 million was canceled by
the Bank on June 29, 1995 at the request of the Borrower. The GET grant for the project
closed on December 31, 1997, with 80 percent disbursed and a remaining balance of
about US$583,000, which the Government expects to be disbursed by April 30, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Matthew Mitchell, consultant, under the direction of
Michael Sarris (Country Director, AFC08), and reviewed by: Alfred Gulstone, Fauzia
Najm (AFTG1); Christopher Trapman (AFTA2); Robin Broadfield, Lars Vidaeus
(ENVGC), and Manorama Gotur (AFC08).
The content of the ICR is based on documents in the project file and project
completion information from the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA). There was no
completion mission for the project. An independent assessment of the project on behalf
of the Government of Mauritius, attached as Appendix B, was prepared by MSA and
transmitted to the Bank by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Public Utilities.



/



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3458-MU)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST -- MAURITIUS SUGAR BIO-ENERGY
TRUST FUND 28603
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.     The Sugar Energy Development Project (SEDP) supported the first phase of the
Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP) in Mauritius. This program, which
began in 1991, emerged from the Sugar Action Plan (SAP) and sought to improve the
performance of the sugar industry through greater productivity and product
diversification. The latter included the increased production of bagasse, the fibrous waste
product of sugar production. The program's objectives were to: (a) optimize use of
bagasse for electricity generation by 2000; and (b) identify uses of sugar biomass other
than bagasse for power production. The key strategy of the BEDP was to set up the
investment program, institutional framework and policies to encourage private sector
investment in bagasse/coal power stations. It also was to increase the efficiency of
generation and the use of power in sugar factories to free the incremental bagasse surplus
to produce power for the national grid. SEDP benefited from a 1987 study of the
UNDP/Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program on the potential use of
bagasse for energy. At the time of project appraisal in 1991, the Bank was financing the
Sugar Industry Project (SIDP, under Loan 2728-MAS), also aimed at improving
productivity through the modernization of sugar mills.
Objectives
ii.    The broad objective of SEDP was to help GOM  and the private sector
implement the initial time slice of the BEDP (1992-95), which focused on establishing a
firm power plant at the Union St Aubin Power Mill (UStA), operating on bagasse and
coal, as part of the least-cost program for electric power development in Mauritius. In
support of this broad objective, the project had three complementary objectives: (a)
expanding electricity generation using bagasse from 70 Gwh to 120 Gwh; (b) promoting
efficient use of biomass fuels from the sugar industry for energy production; and (c)
strengthening the management and coordination of BEDP by providing training to the
Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA) and Central Electricity Board (CEB, the public utility)
and establishing an environmental monitoring system for the sugar industry. To achieve
these objectives, the project sought to build a baseload power plant which would provide
continuous power to CEB, using bagasse during the crop season and coal in the off
season. This plant was to be the first in a series of regional plants, and its output was to
i



depend in part on investments in efficiency improvements of regional satellite mills to
provide surplus bagasse for power generation. The project also included components for
technical assistance and technology demonstrations to promote private/public sector
cooperation in power plant ventures and evaluate ways to decrease the transport costs for
bagasse and optimize the use of sugar cane for power generation.
Project Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   According to the original implementation schedule, the project was to be
implemented during 1992-96. However, the project did not get started until early 1994
because of major delays in meeting conditions of effectiveness. Actual project costs
amounted to only US$13.4 million compared to atn original amount of US$55 million
(Part II, Table 8A). Actual costs were much lower than planned because the power plant
component was abandoned and investments in sugar mill efficiency improvements were
much lower than expected. The Bank loan officially closed on December 31, 1996, six
months later than originally planned.  However, technology demonstration and
environmental components (under the GET) continued through the end of 1997. The
Bank disbursed a total of US$ 6 million of the original loan amount (US$15 million) and
canceled, at the request of the Borrower, the remaining US$9 million (Part II, Table 4).
iv.   The project partially achieved its objectives. There has been an increase in
bagasse-generated electricity, although not based on the original design of the project.
This design had planned for most of the expected increase to come from baseload
generation of the project's core component -- the 22-MW baseload power plant at the
Union St Aubin Sugar Factory, located in the southern part of the country. Due to design
changes, higher costs, and financing problems, the investment did not prove viable and
was canceled. As a result, CEB had to invest in altemative diesel baseload power which
the project's appraisal report had indicated would be more costly than the UStA
bagasse/coal plant for the period 1992-96. At the same time, the sugar industry on its
own invested in capacity for generating intermittent and continuous bagasse-generated
power. The level of the increase in generation was only slightly below that originally
envisaged under the project. However, it is not clear how much of this generation was
due specifically to the project. Investments by sugar factories associated with the project
were lower than anticipated and related Bank disbursements were less than half the
amount planned. On the other hand, the project helped improve the institutional
framework for bagasse power development and completed assessments of bagasse-related
technology for more efficient production and enhanced environmental monitoring.
v.    The role of bagasse in electricity generation and the organization of supply need
re-evaluation based on changes that have taken place both in the sugar industry and
power sector during the implementation period. The contracting for power between CEB
and IPPs, according to the project's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was to support least-
cost power development as well as promote IPPs in making use of a renewable energy
source that would help mitigate adverse effects of energy use on the environment.
However, during implementation, a new power development plan indicated that baseload
ii



bagasse/coal power stations are not the least-cost options for power development.
Furthermore, the sugar industry has moved away from the "regional cluster model" for
bagasse development, on which the project was based, to a centralization policy of
concentrating on the most efficient plants for producing sugar and energy. It may be that
the Government is willing to pay more for power from bagasse/coal plants considering
the additional benefits to the environment and the sugar industry. In any event, the role
of bagasse requires evaluation.
Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned
vi.    A satisfactory rating for a project denotes achievement of most major objectives
and satisfactory development results with few shortcomings. The outcome of SEDP was
not fully satisfactory because: (a) the financing of the UStA plant, the project's central
component, did not take place; (b) the entire approach to bagasse development in the
country has changed, putting at question the project's key objective of increasing use of
biomass fuels; (c) the linkage between power development and sugar industry planning
was not strengthened; and (d) there were some design problems. However, the project
partially achieved its objectives, as noted above, in terms of: an increase in bagasse-
generated electricity to near the targeted level, albeit not in the manner envisaged;
enhanced sugar industry earnings; increased public/private sector capacity in evaluating
technologies for efficient sugar/power production; environmental benefits and foreign
exchange savings from reduced petroleum use; and improved environmental monitoring
of the private sugar industry and IPPs.  Project outcome is therefore rated to be
marginally satisfactory.
vii.    Notwithstanding the rating, it is essential to recognize the scope and
significance of what the project did indeed achieve. The Bank put on the table --
providing analytical support and promoting public/private sector dialogue -- the ideas of
private sector production of bagasse energy, diversification of energy sources, and
economic pricing (tying energy pricing to the next best economic alternative). These
ideas have been embraced: private investment in sugar and independent power producers
(IPPs) are on the rise, other forms of energy are being explored, and economic pricing is
being reflected in new pricing arrangements being developed. A major contribution of
the project was the experience gained by government and IPPs in contracting --
instrumental in producing a financing package for a bagasse/coal power plant at the Belle
Vue sugar factory in the north of the country. (This plant was not part of the project but a
part of the same power development plan, originally slated to follow the UStA plant and
begin operation in 1995-96; it is now scheduled for 2000). With increased power
purchases from IPPs, investments in new baseload power plants that would be more
costly -- financially and environmentally -- have been avoided, reducing cost to the
customer. In addition, despite the 1995 finding that bagasse/coal plants were no longer
the least-cost option for Mauritius, EIB's fumding of the bagasse/coal plant at Belle Vue
appears to validate these plants' multiple benefits: environmental safety, security of
supply/reduced reliance on oil, and enhanced sugar industry performance.  The
government is, moreover, considering design of a modern sugar factory that would
iii



produce sugar and generate energy while protecting the environment, along efficiency
standards set in la Reunion. Finally, the project's contribution environmentally includes
the preparation of two environmental assessments (for UStA and Belle Vue) and a 42%
reduction in carbon dioxide emissions (measured in kilograms per kilowatt holur).
viii.  The main lesson learned from the SEDP is that the development of bagasse-based
electricity generation in Mauritius requires a stronger linkage between the developments
in the sugar industry and those in the power sector, a greater emphasis on multi-purpose
benefits of baseload bagasse/coal power plants, and :new approaches on the part of both
the Bank and Borrower in evaluating and supervising, cross-sector projects. Other related
lessons are the following:
(a) Investments in efficient mill operations and related generation appear to be profitable
and sugar factories and are likely to continue this trend. Bank funding of the foreign
exchange for these operations is not necessary.
(b) Allowing too many important actions to be undertaken as conditions of effectiveness,
to accelerate project processing, may be counter-productive.  It may be more
advantageous to either extend the preparation phase or make the required actions
conditions of Board presentation, in order to avoid the considerable loss of leverage that
can result after Board approval, especially where Bank financing is not critical.
(c ) The Bank needs to find an appropriate vehicle for working with countries such as
Mauritius, that may not need Bank funds but that could greatly benefit from the Bank's
technical assistance or from its role as "honest broker" between the public and private
sectors.  Much of what SEDP actually accomplished could have been done with some
form of cross-sector reimbursable technical assistance, providing the country with the
benefit of a broader range of expertise, and reducing the commitment charges on loan
finds not used.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3458-MU)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST -- MAURITIUS SUGAR BIO-ENERGY
TRUST FUND 28603
PART I: REPORT FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE BANK
A. INTRODUCTION
1.     The Sugar Energy Development Project (SEDP) supported the first phase of the
Bagasse Energy Development Program (BEDP) in Mauritius. This program, which began
in 1991, emerged from the Sugar Action Plan (SAP) and sought to improve the
performance of the sugar industry through greater productivity and product
diversification. The latter included the increased production of bagasse, the fibrous waste
product of sugar production. The program's objectives were to: (a) optimize use of
bagasse for electricity generation by 2000; and (b) identify uses of sugar biomass other
than bagasse for power production. The key strategy of the BEDP was to set up the
investment program, institutional framework and policies to encourage private sector
investment in bagasse/coal power stations. It also was to increase the efficiency of
generation and the use of power in sugar factories to free the incremental bagasse surplus
to produce power for the national grid. SEDP benefited from a 1987 study of the
UNDP/Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program on the potential use of
bagasse for energy. At the time of project appraisal in 1991, the Bank was financing the
Sugar Industry Project (SIDP, under Loan 2728-MAS), also aimed at improving
productivity through the modernization of sugar mills.
2.      The sugar industry, at the time of project appraisal (1991), consisted of 19
sugar factories, all but one of which were privately owned. Most of these factories had
been generating power for their own use. Some were also providing power to the grid of
the publicly owned Central Electricity Board (CEB) intermittently, or continuously
during the crop season (July to December). One factory, the Flacq United Estates Limited
Sugar Factory (FUEL), was providing firm power (power supply throughout the year),
using bagasse in the crop season and coal in the off season.
3.     The key strategy of the BEDP was to set up the investment program,
institutional framework and policies to encourage private sector investment in bagasse/
coal power stations. It also was to increase the efficiency of generation and the use of
power in sugar factories to free the incremental bagasse surplus to produce power for the
national grid. To implement this program, GOM had estimated that capital investments
of US$ 80 million would be necessary during the period 1992-98. These investments
were to cover: two regional bagasse/coal fired plants at two sugar factories (Union St.



Aubin in the south and Belle Vue in the north ); improved efficiency of satellite factories
in their operations to save bagasse for supplying the regional plants; vehicles and
equipment for bagasse transport from satellite factories to the plants; and transmission
lines from the sugar factories to the national grid.
4.    To manage the BEDP, GOM had established the BEDP Management Committee
(BEDPMC), with representatives from government (including the Ministry of Energy)
and industry. The BEDPMC reported to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Natural Resources. The Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA), which the Government had
created to implement the SAP, was to act as the Secretariat of the BEDP. The main
policies to promote private investments were: (a) export duty rebates linked to the amount
of bagasse the sugar factories used for power generation; and (b) the pricing of electricity
purchased by CEB from private producers at the cost per kWh the CEB was avoiding by
not making investments in new power generating facilities. (avoided cost principle).
5.     At the time of appraisal of SEDP in 1991, the Bank was financing the Sugar
Industry Project (SIDP), through Loan 2728-MAS (Part II, Table 2). The objectives of
this project were to help GOM implement the SAP by providing foreign exchange to help
modernize sugar mills, reform policies to improve productivity and financial performance
of the industry, increase farmer productivity and strengthen research on technology to
develop irrigation resources.
B. STATEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND
DESCRIPTION OF COMPONENTS
6.    The broad objective of SEDP was to help GOM and the private sector implement
the initial time slice of the BEDP (1992-95), which focused on establishing a firm power
plant at the Union St Aubin Power Mill (UStA), operating on bagasse and coal, as part of
the least-cost program for electric power development in Mauritius. In support of this
broad objective, the project had three complementary objectives: (a) expanding
electricity generation using bagasse from 70 Gwh to 120 Gwh; (b) promoting efficient
use of biomass fuels from the sugar industry for energy production; and (c) strengthening
the management and coordination of BEDP by providing training to the MSA and the
CEB and establishing an environmental monitoring system for the sugar industry. To
achieve these objectives, the project consisted of four components: (a) construction of a
bagasse/coal-fired plant at UStA (US$23 million); (b) investments in equipment and
processes to improve the efficiency of the satellite mills supporting the UStA plant and to
free bagasse for electricity generation to the grid (US$ 18 million); (c) technology studies
to improve the efficiency of bagasse transport from the satellite mills to the regional
power plant and evaluate options for using other parts of the sugar cane for energy; and
(d) institutional support to the BEDP for overall program coordination, project
supervision, and environmental monitoring, and to CEB for building expertise in bagassel
coal plant operations and contracting for coal to meet the needs of the power plant. Of
these, the Global Environment Trust (GET) funds were to finance: development and
adaptation of technologies for biomass energy production; training of technical staff of
bagasse/coal plants; and support for BEDP management and coordination, including
environmental monitoring.
2



7.    The total cost of the project was estimated at US$55 million. The financing was
to consist of: a US$15 million loan from the Bank for the foreign exchange costs of
equipment and machinery for efficiency improvements; a grant of US$3.3 million from
the Global Environmental Trust (GET) for the technology studies and institutional
development components; US$23 million from an unidentified foreign source for
financing the UStA power plant; and US$ 13.7 million from local financial institutions,
the sugar industry and Government.
C. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
8.    The project's objectives were clear and directly related to those of the BEDP. Its
physical objectives were justified by a preliminary investment analysis which showed
that the bagasse/coal plants were the least-cost alternative, compared to alternative diesel
or coal-fired plants. The expected increase in bagasse-based electricity was to come in
the first phase of the program, which depended on the successful development of the
UStA plant and its satellite sugar mills which formed the first "regional cluster" in the
BEDP. The promotion of biomass fuels from parts of the sugar cane other than bagasse
was consistent with the SAP's emphasis on diversification of sugar industry products.
The strengthening of management and coordination under the BEDP was necessary
because of: (a) the expanded role of the MSA in the BEDP for the overall supervision of
the project; and (b) CEB's need for expertise in boiler management and coal quality
analysis to handle an expanded program of contractual arrangements with independent
power producers (IPPs). This institutional support also reflected lessons learned from past
projects in Mauritius about the importance of ensuring an adequate institutional
framework to implement investment programs.
9.    The project's design was innovative in its emphasis on: the development of
private IPPs; the use of a non-conventional renewable energy source for baseload power
generation; and the multipurpose nature of its expected benefits. The design was
reasonable considering conditions prevailing at appraisal; however, with hindsight there
were a number of deficiencies which, combined with some unforeseen events, had an
adverse impact on project implementation. Despite the lack of experience with such a
project in the Bank or in Mauritius, the Government and the Bank opted for a combined
technical assistance/investment project right away instead of a two phase approach with a
pilot technical assistance project followed by an investment project. There were several
reasons for this. First, the technology for the power plant already was established in La
Reunion and a similar technology was to be applied to the UStA power plant. Second,
project preparation included pre-feasibility work which established the proposed plant as
the least-cost solution for power system development and prepared a preliminary
environmental assessment that showed that such a plant was more environmentally
desirable than other alternatives.  Third, there were some important institutional
conditions already in place. Legislation already existed which allowed CEB to purchase
electricity from IPPs and CEB had concluded such contracts with three sugar mills. The
Ministry of Energy and the CEB had been discussing ways to improve such contracts.
Key provisions subject to discussion, other than those specifically related to pricing were:
detailed specifications on peak MW supply; hours of supply; terms and conditions for
3



synchronizing power supply with the CEB grid; and penalties for violating contract
terms. Furthermore, CEB already had concluded a draft power purchase agreement
which was satisfactory to the Bank. Fourth, project files indicate that the Bank had put
the project on a "fast track" for processing, which apparently reflected the Government's
high level of interest and concern for the timing of the least cost development program.
10.   The project's risk assessment indicated a very low level of risk in attaining
objectives if conditions of effectiveness were met. The first condition of effectiveness
was the completion of a power purchase agreement between CEB and UStA. The second
was the submission to the Bank of documentation demonstrating the technical, financial,
economic and environmental viability of the power plant and the completion of a
financing package for the proposed investment, acceptable to the Bank. The third
condition was meant to ensure an adequate institutional framework for launching the
BEDP and the project, which required the appointment of a BEDP coordinator within the
MSA, satisfactory to the Bank.
11.   With hindsight, the design of the project could have taken more precautions to
reduce the risk of the implementation problems and encourage least-cost power
development as well as promote IPPs. Given the actual design in the SAR, the project's
supervision plan should have included at least a power engineer since SEDP was mainly a
power development project with sugar energy development research and demonstration
components. Alternatively it might have been more effective to focus first on a technical
assistance project to firmly establish feasibility and set up the institutional framework
and prepare a follow-up investment project later. Another option would have been to
keep the project as designed but make all the conditions of effectiveness conditions of
Board presentation instead. These options would have made it easier for the Bank to
comment on the design and, if necessary, modify it or call off the project.
12.   Several areas deserved more attention in the SAR. The latter could have made a
more rigorous justification for the Bank loan and better clarified project/macroeconomic
linkages, and the foreign exchange controls policy. The Rationale for Bank Involvement
section notes the Bank's participation in the previous sugar industry project, the
continuity of dialogue, and the catalytic role for private sector investment but says little
about demand for Bank funds. The existence of foreign controls was supposed to be a
key reason for the Bank loan. However, the Governrent's elimination of these controls
before loan effectiveness suggests weak coordination between project preparation and the
period's macroeconomic policy dialogue.  Furthermore, discussions with project
supervision staff during ICR preparation indicated that Bank funding was not critical to
the project, and that the loan mainly served as a vehicle for continued Bank involvement
in the sugar and power sectors. It also would have been helpful to work out pricing
arrangements in more detail.
13.   To ensure the viability of the cluster approach for private electricity supply, it
would have been prudent to prepare a market study on the likely bagasse price and its
possible impact on the development of the UStA cluster. Furthernore, it would have
been helpful to work out some of the non-pricing power purchase agreement issues which
the SAR mentions briefly. Some of these issues still have not been resolved in the
4



context of the planned project at the Belle Vue Sugar Estate. Finally, given that there
were no recent estimates of the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of electricity supply and
the power development plan was based on a 1986 demand study, it would have been
helpful to include a covenant which provided for an exchange of views on power
development issues and maybe an LRMC study. This could have encouraged a stronger
linkage of the project with the power system developments that took place during project
implementation.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overview
14.    The following sections review the extent to which the project achieved its
objectives according to the relevant categories of objectives specified in Part II, Table 1.
These categores are: macroeconomic objectives; sector objectives; physical objectives,
sector policies, institutional development, public sector development and environmental
protection. The project partially achieved its objectives. The highlights of project
achievements were: contribution to increased bagasse-based generation; enhanced sugar
industry earnings through increased sales of bagasse-generated power; assistance to the
government and the private sector in evaluating important technologies for efficient sugar
and power production; environmental improvements and foreign exchange savings
through displaced petroleum product use; and better environmental monitoring of the
private sugar industry and IPPs. However, what the SAR termed as the project's
centerpiece - the UStA bagasse/coal power plant - which was to be the alternative source
of incremental baseload power, did not materialize. As a result, CEB had to invest in
additional diesel plant capacity, which the SAR had determined was not the least-cost
option for the period. Furthermore, the Bank's support of private investment in improved
efficiency of private sugar mills was significantly lower than anticipated.
Macroeconomic Objectives
15.   The project did not specifically cite macroeconomic objectives but the bagasse/
coal fired power plant was expected to result in net foreign exchange earnings of US$2
million. The additional revenues to the sugar industry were also a benefit but were not
estimated. Since the bagasse/coal power plant did not materialize, the project did not
result in the level of net savings anticipated. The Belle Vue project, when it becomes
operational, is likely to lead to foreign exchange savings.
Sector Development Objectives
16.   The project helped the sugar industry diversify its activities as evident in the
increase of bagasse-based power generation. It also helped introduce the avoided cost
concept to the CEB which has led to the establishment of a framework for IPP
development. During implementation, CEB contracted with consultants (outside the
scope of the project) to prepare a study on the long-run marginal cost of power
development, at the suggestion of Bank project staff. However, the project did not
address important issues in least-cost power sector development that emerged during
5



implementation which were relevant to the project: the impact of the revised least-cost
development plan on bagasse development, and aMomalies in the relative pricing of
petroleum products that were impeding least-cost development of the sector.
Physical Objectives
17.   Electricity generation from bagasse increased from about 70 GWh at appraisal to
118 GWh in 1996, just below that targeted in the SAR. If the UStA plant had been
constructed, generation would have been significantly higher than the appraisal estimate.
It is apparent that other factories contributed far more to bagasse-based electricity
generation, through continuous and intermittent supply than originally anticipated. It is
not clear exactly how much of this generation directly resulted from investments
supported by the Bank loan. In any case, the project's participation in such investments
was much lower than anticipated (US$6 million ouit of an estimated US$15 million at
appraisal).
Institutional Development
18.   The project met its objective of establishing a coordination unit within the BEDP
to help administer the project and to serve as the focal point for private/public sector
partnership in IPP development. The BEDP coordination unit was particularly helpful in
resolving differences between UStA and the CEB in the design of a power purchase
agreement. The project did not achieve its original objectives for developing a capability
in bagasse and coal power plant technology within C]EB for two reasons: the decision not
to proceed with the UStA plant; and given the private sector focus of the project, the
inappropriateness of the coal analysis lab venture for CEB, especially as its cost was
significantly higher than foreseen in the SAR.
Public Sector Management
19.   The project supported improved  public sector management by promoting the
concept of avoided cost and the purchase of power from IPPs. By promoting the
contracting for private power generated by bagasse/'coal plants, the CEB was to avoid
investmnent in a new power plant and meet incrernental demand at lower cost. The
abandonment of the investment in the UStA bagasse/coal plant made it necessary to
invest in an additional diesel unit to meet additional baseload power demand. However,
the increase in continuous and intermittent supply from independent private power
producers generating electricity from bagasse has improved the security of supply
through diversification of power sources. Also, the (lialogue with the private sector that
took place under the project and the model agreernents produced have established a
precedent for future projects. In particular, the planned Belle Vue plant, scheduled for
operation by 2001, will meet a substantial portion of power demand in Mauritius and
contribute to the avoided cost to CEB.
6



Private Sector Development
20.   Although the project did not lead to the construction of the UStA bagasse and
coal plant by 1994 as planned, the extensive dialogue between the public and private
sector on design work, the least cost power development plan, and power purchasing
agreements have directly or indirectly led to the development of other power plants.
UStA reportedly has gone ahead with investments on its own to generate electricity
using bagasse only and at least four other factories are planning investments in additional
generating capacity. Notably, the European Investment Bank (EIB) has agreed to finance
the second bagasse/coal fired power plant which is part of the BEDP, at the Belle Vue
Sugar Factory. The project also has provided demonstration work to reduce the
transaction costs for improving technology in the industry in Mauritius and other
countries, which could provide further incentives for private sector participation.
Environmental Protection
21.    The project substantially contributed to environmental objectives by producing
environmental assessments for the UStA and Belle Vue plants, conducting studies on
pollution abatement, and creating a capability for environmental monitoring within the
BEDP. The environmental studies for both the UStA and Belle Vue plants indicated that
they were less harmful to the environment than diesel and combined cycle gas turbine
(CCGT) plants respectively. The assessments covered greenhouse gases and particulate
matter. In July of 1997, the Department of Environment in Mauritius issued a license to
the Belle Vue unit CTBV, based on the environmental assessment report conducted under
the project. Information from the MSA indicates that the increased bagasse-generated
electricity has resulted in the avoidance of 242 tons of carbon dioxide released into the
atmosphere, or a reduction from about 19 tons of carbon dioxide for every kilowatt hour
(kwh) generated to around 11 tons of carbon dioxide per kWh generated.
22.     The project's technical assistance and training components provided for a study
tour of MSA officials in April/May 1997 and its environmental consultants. The team
visited both sugar factories and generation plants in several countries including
Australia, France, Taiwan, and the United States. The team found that environmental
concerns were an integral part of the permit process for power plant development and that
standards were determined separately for each plant by several authorities. The study tour
has enabled the members of MSA to work more effectively with consultants involved in
the environmental control components of the project. Contracts for the supply of three
mobile environmental control systems have been awarded and the tender evaluation for
the acquisition of vehicles has been completed. The tendering for water monitoring
equipment is in progress. In general, MSA learned that new plants were required to make
heavy investments in pollution control while old plants were subject to less stringent
standards, using the best technology appropriate for the design and the life of the plant.
7



E. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Implementation Record
23.    According to the original implementation schedule the project was to take place
during 1992-96. However, the project did not get started until 1994 because of major
delays in meeting conditions of effectiveness. Actual project cost amounted to US$ 13.4
million compared to an original amount of US$ 55 million. (Table 8A). The actual costs
were much lower than originally expected because the power plant component was
abandoned, and disbursements on the Bank loan were much lower than originally
expected. The project officially closed on December 31, 1996; however, the GET grant
remained open to continue funding studies and trials on bagasse technology and
environmental improvements through 1997.
24.     The Bank disbursed a total of US$ 6 million of the original loan amount (US$
15 million) and canceled, at the request of the borrower, the remaining US$ 9 million
(Part II, Table 4). It is expected that the full $3.3 million of GET grant financing will be
disbursed by the end of 1997.
25.   The project performance overall was rated as having moderate problems during
the initial years (Part II, Table 13). However, at the end of the project the outcome was
rated unsatisfactory in terms of implementation but satisfactory in terms of meeting
development objectives.
Key Changes in Project Design
26.    There were several key changes in project design: (a) the waiver of one of the
project's effectiveness conditions; (b) changes to the technology studies and institutional
development components; and (c) a change in the original model followed for bagasse
development. After more than a year's delay in project effectiveness, the Borrower had
met all effectiveness conditions except for securing. a financing package for the UStA
power plant. Given the fulfillment of the other conditions and progress of the UStA in
reaching an agreement with investors, the Bank waived the condition for a financing
package and in its place added a project covenant that financing was to be secured by the
end of December 1994. However, UStA was unable to secure financing under the project
due to a number of factors including changes in project design compared to the SAR,
resulting higher costs, and the lack of sufficient bagasse supplies.
27.    Although the project conducted some successful trials at the Rose Belle sugar
factory, changes in the approach to bagasse development reduced the need for the bagasse
transport and handling study. The project canceled two components, bio-technology
experiments and trials for whole cane processing, due to poor initial results. Training
programs for technical staff at CEB in the operatio:n of bagasse and coal power plants
turned out not to be necessary. The project also addecl three components not envisaged in
the original project design: the environmental assessment of the CTBV, a feasibility
study for pollution control at four sugar plants, and the construction and testing of a cane
drying plant at UStA, a replacement technology for the whole cane processing
8



component, which was dropped.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation
28.    Factors Outside the Control of the Borrower. The main factor outside the
control of the Borrower that affected the project was the decision of investors not to
finance the UStA plant. As part of appraisal, the UStA sugar factory prepared an in-
house pre-feasibility study which indicated that a 22-MW plant would be economically
justified, costing in the order of US$ 23 million. For the feasibility and design work,
UStA hired a design firm using the company's own funds. This firm prepared a design
with a cost estimate nearly double the appraisal estimate, about US$51 million or US$ 2,
318 per kW installed, which was extremely high for a steam power plant. To improve the
economic viability of the plant, the consultant, in 1994, proposed an increase to a 30 MW
plant at a cost of US$59 million which amounted to a capital cost of US$ 1967 per kW
installed. In 1995, the design firm recommended re-designing the plant, expanding civil
works and re-defining major components such as the boiler and turbo generator, to take
account of future capacity of the factory, and improvements in the thermodynamic cycle
of the plant. This design change resulted in nearly a 30 percent increase over the cost of
the previous 30-MW plant design.
29.    Ultimately, EIB, which was considering funding the foreign exchange cost of
the plant, withdrew from the project for a number of reasons. First, the revised design
significantly lowered the estimated financial rate of return (FRR), from 13.3 percent at
appraisal to 10 percent. Second, the negotiations for bagasse supplies had broken down
because of a failure to reach an agreement on an acceptable price and it appeared that the
bagasse available at UStA was not sufficient to meet the needs of the new design. Third,
EIB also had concerns about the technical and financial capability of the promoter as
well as the adequacy of guarantee arrangements. Discussions with project supervision
staff and project files indicate that the substantially higher costs than estimated at
appraisal were primarily due to the addition of an excessive amount of automated
equipment. Apparently, this equipment could have been replaced by labor at a much
lower cost. In addition, bidding documents appear to have been presented in a way that
restricted responses to the tendering process.
30.    Factors within the Control of the Borrower. The main factors affecting
project implementation, subject to the control of the Borrower were: lifting of foreign
exchange controls and the resulting difficulties for administering the Bank loan; lack of
consensus on the calculation of avoided costs and consequent delays in concluding a
power purchase agreement; change in the approach to bagasse development and
electricity generation. At the time of appraisal, foreign exchange controls in Mauritius
posed a limitation on funds in the private banking system available to the sugar industry
for equipment needed to improve efficiency and increase the surplus bagasse for
electricity production. In 1992, prior to the effectiveness of the Bank loan, GOM lifted
these controls. An important justification for the Bank loan was the existence of these
controls and the mechanism set up for disbursement assumed that the Central Bank was
to play a lead role in the process. The Bank loan originally was to provide US$ 15
million over a period of five years for the importation by mill owners of machinery and
9



equipment according to a list of eligible items agreed to during project negotiations.
31.    Sugar mills were to purchase foreign exchange through commercial banks for
imports of equipment and to improve the efficiency of steam generation. As in the pre-
ceding Sugar Industry Development Project, the Central Bank of Mauritius was to be
responsible for (a) screening foreign exchange applications; (b) referring applications to
the BEDP Coordination Unit for technical verification; (c) providing the Coordination
unit with semi annual reports on foreign exchange sold to the sugar industry; and (d)
preparing requests for the disbursement of approved applications out of the Bank loan.
However, with the lifting of foreign exchange controls, there was no single source of
information on foreign exchange expenditures.  The Bank instead tried to obtain
documentary evidence through MSA , which kept track of central cost accounting for the
sugar industry. The MSA asked sugar estates to provide details on their foreign exchange
expenditures for improving efficiency.  However, this procedure was very time-
consuming and ultimately provided only a limited amount of evidence. One problem
encountered was that importers were often reluctant to share their supplier invoices with
the sugar estates (thus exposing profit margins) and it was not possible to justify the use
of the loan proceeds as originally envisaged. For nearly three years there were no
disbursements on the loan. MSA submitted most of the available evidence to the Bank
between May and September 1995.
32.    Controversy over CEB's calculation of the avoided cost of power was a factor
that delayed the conclusion of a power purchase agreernent for the planned UStA plant
and consequently the effectiveness of the project. At project appraisal the Bank and the
Borrower had agreed that the value to CEB of electricity purchased from a private
producer should be equivalent to the cost to CEB of generating power on its own. This
price tends toward the long-run marginal cost of electricity supply (LRMC). The
calculation of the LRMC calls for detailed information on the required mix of plants, the
loan duration curve, and investment requirements. However, this information was not
available for the SAR.
33.    In the absence of the LRMC, the SAR based the avoided cost on the next best
alternative, a 30-MW diesel plant. The Bank and the Borrower agreed that the avoided
cost would be a combination of the economic and the financial cost at the mid point of
the project period. During the project the Bank updated the costs in the SAR to between
Rs 1.39 - 1.60 per kWh. However, CEB calculated a much lower figure of Rs 1.23/kWh,
making the cost of the power purchase from private producers higher than the alternative,
and therefore not desirable from CEB's viewpoint. The Bank supported UStA in its
calculation of the avoided cost and stated that CEB was deviating from the formula at
appraisal. The appraisal had used high sulfur fuel oil as the basis of calculating a diesel
price and taken an average of the economic and financial cost of diesel oil at the mid
point of the life of the UStA power plant. It appears thlat there were deviations in the
calculations by both CEB and the Bank. The Bank criticized CEB for using the spot
price of diesel oil instead of the formnula in the SAR. CEB criticized the UStA/Bank
calculation for using low sulfur fuel oil, which is more expensive, and adding a premium
for handling and storage. Ultimately the issue was resolved through the mediation of the
BEDP with the Government accepting some subsidy to support bagasse development.
10



UStA and CEB concluded a draft power purchase agreement but it was never
implemented since the plant was canceled.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
34.   Bank performance in identification was satisfactory and was supported  by a
detailed ESMAP study detailing bagasse potential. The appraisal of the project included
a significant amount of preparation of the institutional set up and pre-feasibility work to
establish the power plant. With hindsight, however, it seems that the perceived need for
rapid processing of the project and perhaps an overly optimistic approach to bagasse
development overshadowed the need for caution due to the innovative nature of the
project. Therefore the Bank's performance in appraisal is rated marginally satisfactory.
There were a number of issues surrounding the Bank's supervision of the project:
whether the Bank should have declared the project effective given the circumstances
surrounding the project; the extent to which the Bank's supervision was constrained by
project design; the appropriate role of the Bank in addressing power development issues
that affected the project; the degree to which the Bank's administration of the project was
adequate in terms of suitable supervisory authority; and the level of resources devoted to
project supervision.
35.   The Bank declared the loan/grant for the project effective despite the fact that:
the design of the plant was substantially changed from the appraisal and the cost per kW
of the investment was excessive in terms of industry standards; the Bank recognized the
design as overly elaborate; and the Borrower had not completed the final condition of
effectiveness (which the Bank waived), specifying the conclusion of a financing package
for the UStA. Based on project files and communications with project supervisory staff,
it appears that the Bank's reasons for declaring the loan/grant effective were: anticipation
that a financing package was forthcoming and that adding a new project covenant would
help ensure its completion; the fact that UStA had paid for the design and the Bank was
concerned that questioning the design would have impeded private sector development;
and the high level of commitment the Government had shown for the project.
36.  It seems that in supervising the project , the Bank did not take into sufficient
account that private sector development is only one of the guiding principles of the
Bank in supporting the power system development of its client countries. Least cost
power system development is another key principle of Bank lending. The conditions of
effectiveness were in part designed to ensure both least cost development and the
promotion of IPPs. The SAR makes it clear that the Government was required to
establish all aspects of the plant's viability to "the satisfaction of the Bank," although
the loan agreement does not include this latter phrase and just notes documentation
"demonstrating the technical, financial, and environmental viability of the investments."
In any case, both of these statements imply that the Bank had both the authority and
responsibility to review the design of the plant and comment on it, especially when it
suspected that the design was overly elaborate. At the very least, it would have been
appropriate for the Bank to strongly bring to the attention of the Borrower that the revised
cost of the plant was almost double the estimate and was far out of line with industry
costs for thermal plants.
11



37.  In general, it appears that the Bank did not devote sufficient attention to issues in
the power sector which were important to the project. Communications with supervision
staff during ICR preparation indicated that the Bank declined a request from the
Government to review the alternative generation proposed for baseload power units that
became necessary when the UStA plant failed to materialize. Furthermore, it does not
appear that supervision reports adequately dealt with the issue of bagasse/coal power
plants no longer being part of the least cost development program and the kerosene/diesel
pricing issue that was necessary to resolve in order to determine the least cost alternative.
Since the project was essentially a power project wvith sugar energy development
components, it would have been appropriate for the Bank to become involved in these
issues and provide technical assistance as needed, perhaps through reallocation of the
project's proceeds or types of assistance. Part of the problem may have been in allocating
the project to the agricultural division of the Bank instead of the energy division. During
the project, there was an ESMAP mission to look at energy issues;' however, the mission
focused on the energy sector as a whole and did not provide a vehicle for resolving the
power sector issues that affected the project. The following were among the important
issues it identified: (a) potential electricity supply problems of the CEB due to its
precarious financial position and constraints on petroleum product pricing; (b) the
unreliable nature of the FUEL bagasse/coal plant; (c) the riskiness of bagasse/coal plant
development for CEB due to the long lead time required; (d) the questionable level of
public financing planned for the UStA power plant; and (e) the need for improvements in
power purchase agreements. In this regard, communications with supervision staff
indicated that not enough technical resources were available for project supervision .
38.  In addition to the Bank's limited response to the plant design problem, several
actions taken during implementation made it difficult to maintain the vision of an
integrated project as originally designed:  (a) the cancellation of the UStA power plant,
which was to be centerpiece of the project; (b) the closing of the Bank loan, due to
insufficient demand, before all components of the project were complete; and (c) the
focus of supervision, after the Bank loan's closing, on onaly the parts of the project that
GET was financing. The project became so fragmented that in the latter part of the
project it was seen as two projects: the GEF-financed components making up one project
and the Bank loan/ private financing aimed at investment in power production as another
project. By closing the Bank-financed portion a year before the GEF portion (December
1996) the Bank also was compelled to produce an ICR for the project before the entire
project was finished. There was even discussion of producing two ICRs, one for the
activities financed by the Bank loan and another for the project components financed by
the GET.
39.   The narrow focus of project supervision and the effort and need to produce the
ICR before the GET components were completed also caused difficulties in preparing the
ICR. The two main contacts with knowledge of the project outside the Bank, stationed
in resident missions, and there was no comprehensive final supervision mission which
would have helped to obtain the necessary data for the ICR. and provide a retrospective of
'ESMAP, Mauritius Energy Sector Review, Report No. 3643-MAS.
12



the entire project. Thus the ICR required considerably more time than usual because, in
essence, it required performing some "retroactive supervision" of the project in order to
obtain a broader view of the project as a whole.
40.   Project supervision was not fully satisfactory; nor was it wholly deficient. Project
files indicate that the task manager throughout most of project's most critical years, 1992-
95, faced the dilemma of canceling the project entirely or declaring it effective and trying
to salvage the project within design constraints.  Ultimately, the high cost-UStA
bagasse/coal plant was dropped; the Bank made a significant contribution to helping the
Government create the institutional framework for private power development; and the
Bank apparently had a good working relationship with the project's local counterparts.
Therefore the ICR has rated supervision, overall, as marginally satisfactory.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41.   The Borrower for the project was the Government of Mauritius. Preparation of
the project by the Government was satisfactory; the latter showed strong commitment to
the project and took a number of important steps to set up the appropriate institutional
framework for the project. The BEDPMC had overall responsibility for implementing
the project. It was to exercise its authority through the MSA, which acted as its
Secretariat. The project set up a coordination unit within the MSA and appointed a sugar
technologist to head it. In the original project design, a Project Implementation Unit was
to be established within the management structure of the UStA management structure,
assuming responsibility for the power plant's planning supervision. Also, the Central
Bank of Mauritius was to oversee the financing arrangements for the improvements in
mill efficiency. However, due to cancellation of the power plant component and the
lifting of foreign exchange controls which obviated the need for Central Bank
participation, MSA had full responsibility for the project. MSA, in its role as Secretariat
of the BPDP, should have been responsible for overseeing both sugar industry and related
power sector developments. However, in practice, MSA was mainly concerned with its
area of expertise, the sugar industry, and was not the appropriate agency to take the
impartial overview of the power sector that was needed in the project.
42.   MSA produced a very detailed review of the bagasse energy developments that
took place during the project. This report was especially helpful for filling in the
information gaps for this ICR due to the limited scope of project supervision reports and
the lack of a completion mission to gather all the necessary information. Given the
imbalance in the supervision of the project between the sugar industry and the power
sector, mixed ratings in Bank supervision reports on project implementation performance
(either minor problems or unsatisfactory); and delayed compliance or partial compliance
with a number of project covenants, the ICR rates Borrower performance, both on project
implementation and compliance with covenants, as marginally satisfactory.
13



H. PROJECT OUTCOME, SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
43.    The project's major accomplishment was progress in helping to establish an
institutional and regulatory framework for private power generation in Mauritius and the
provision of technical studies and trials to support technologies for improved bagasse
production and improved environmental monitoring. The project has also paved the way
for other bagasse coal projects. In addition, the project financed some mill investments to
improve the production of bagasse for power generation. The SAR valued the project's
benefits according to traditional least-cost power development analysis. Although it also
pointed to some financial benefits for the sugar industry as well as environmental
benefits, it did not quantify them. The SAR had estimated an internal economic rate of
return (IERR) of 18 percent on the UStA power plant. An ex post rate of return is not
applicable to this project because the investment did not take place. However, during
project implementation, a re-calculation of the internal financial rate of return (IFRR)
based on the increased cost of the plant showed a decline from 13 percent, estimated at
appraisal, to 10 percent. The ICR rates the overall project outcome as marginally
satisfactory because: (a) there were some significant design deficiencies; (b) the financing
of the UStA plant, the project's central component, did not take place; and (c) the
supervisory performance of both the Bank and the Bonrower was not fully satisfactory.
The sustainability of project achievements is likely if (JOM takes a number of actions
noted in the project's Operational Plan (Appendix 1).
44.   The plan for the project's future operation attempts to re-establish the linkage
between developments that have taken place in the power sector since project appraisal
and the BEDP. It incorporates government priorities for the development of the sugar
industry, the Bank's country assistance strategy, the findings of the least-cost power
development plan, the planned coal/bagasse power plant at the Belle Vue sugar factory,
and ongoing and planned initiatives of the sugar industry to improve both sugar and
energy production.  The key govermment policies affecting the project and future
operations are the continued priority to restructure the sugar industry for greater
efficiency and the development of sugar industry by-products such as bagasse. The
Bank's country assistance strategy focuses on consensus-building for reforms mainly
through non lending services such as economic and sector work. Given all the changes
that took place in BEDP and the power sector during implementation, GOM should aim
to resolve the many issues that will affect the future development of bagasse in Mauritius.
45.   First, it is important to review the power development plan and resolve issues tied
to determining the least cost power planning sequence and the role of bagasse. The plan,
completed in 1995, indicated that from a strictly economic viewpoint, bagasse/coal power
plants were not the least cost solution to power development in Mauritius. Nevertheless
it incorporated the bagasse/coal developments planned at the time but cautioned that the
incorporation of these plants in the program resulted in a cost of US$85 million above the
least-cost program. It is now important to evaluate the basis of this finding and determine
if the multipurpose benefits to Mauritius are worth the hig]her cost of power development.
In order to do this, it is important to reassess the specifications used in the bagasse/coal
plants, which are now out of date: the plan had incorporated a 33 MW plant at UStA,
which has been canceled and assumed the same capacity for the planned Belle Vue plant,
14



which has a planned capacity of almost double that estimate. At the same time, it is
important to resolve the pricing issues that will help determine the least cost solution for
power development. The plan found that a combination of combined cycle gas turbine
plants (CCGTs) and gas turbines operating in a simple cycle for peaking purposes are the
least cost solutions for Mauritius. However, this assumes that CEB switches to diesel oil
instead of kerosene. The main factor influencing CEB's use of kerosene is the tax
regime, which makes diesel oil unattractive from a financial perspective but desirable
from an economic point of view.
46.   Second, it is important to review the status of the coal/bagasse plant to be
constructed at Belle Vue, and the extent to which it serves as a model for such plants in
the future. This plant, according to the SAR, was originally expected to be in operation
by 1996. However, revised plans for its development indicate a capacity of more than
double that originally envisaged and that when in full operation, (around 2001) the plant
would account for nearly a third of power supply. However, there are some issues in the
plant's development which need review. The appraisal report of the European Investment
Bank (EIB), which plans to fund the project, indicates that the plant is not the least-cost
solution to power development and indicates an IFFR of 10 percent, the same as the
revised IFRR for the UStA plant. The EIB report also points out that there are still issues
to be discussed concerning the power purchase agreement. The fact that bagasse/coal
power development is going forward indicates that the additional benefits to the
environment, security of supply resulting from decreased reliance on imported oil
products, and the financial benefits to the sugar industry, outweigh the fact that the power
development plan indicates that these plants are not optimal on a least-cost basis.
Therefore, it is important to review the potential of bagasse/coal plants relative to these
multipurpose benefits.
47.   Third, the operational plan notes that the BEDP has abandoned the regional
cluster approach for a new approach referred to as "centralization", a program to
consolidate industry operations to the most efficient plants for the dual production of
sugar and electricity. The Government has compared performance with plants in la
Reunion as a standard of efficient operation and determined that plants in Mauritius need
upgrading to attain similar results.  To improve performance, MSA proposes a
modernization program to attain efficiency levels similar to those in la Reunion and fully
tap the bagasse potential in Mauritius. In this regard, the Government is giving primary
consideration to the design of a modern sugar factory geared to produce sugar, generate
energy and protect the environment. To that end, the Government plans to formulate a
new program for sugar industry development and submit it for funding under a new GET
grant, expecting significant benefits from such a program in reducing greenhouse gases.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
48.   The main lesson learned from the SEDP is that the development of bagasse-based
electricity generation in Mauritius requires a stronger linkage between developments in
the sugar industry and those in the power sector, a greater emphasis on multipurpose
benefits of baseload bagasse/coal power plants, and new approaches of the Bank and the
Borrower in evaluating and supervising cross-sectoral projects. Conditions in BEDP as
15



well as the power development plan changed during project implementation. However,
neither the Bank nor the Borrower had the institutional capability to approach the changes
from the broad perspective required and to take the necessary actions to insure the
principles of least-cost development, private sector development in power supply, and
the valuation of benefits not usually incorporated in strict economic analysis. Other
related lessons are the following:
(a)     Investments in efficient mill operations and related generation appear to be
profitable, and sugar factories are likely to continue this trend. Bank funding of the
foreign exchange for these operations is not necessary.
(b)     Placing projects on the "fast track7 for processing may be counter-productive if
too many important actions are left to be conditions of effectiveness. An expanded
preparation phase or stipulation of the same conditions as conditions of Board
presentation may be preferable, to avoid the considerable loss of leverage that can result
after Board approval, especially where Bank financing is not critical.
(c )   The Bank needs to find an appropriate vehicle for working with countries that do
not require Bank funds but that could greatly benefit fromn the Bank's technical assistance
or its role as honest broker between the public and private sectors. Much of what SEDP
actually accomplished could have been done with some form of cross-sector reimbursable
technical assistance, involving a broader participation of Bank staff.
16



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 3458-MAS
Part II
Statistical Annexes
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



Table I
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
B.
Assessment           Substantial       Partial       Negligible     Not Applicable
Categories
Macroeconomic Policies                          X
Sector Policies           _X
Financial Objectives                            X
Institutional development                       X
Physical objectives                             X           _
Gender concerns                                                                  X
Other social objectives                                                          X
Environmental objectives        X
Public sector management
Private sector development                      X
Other                                                                            X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely                     Unce rtain_                 Unliely
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project  Highly            Satisfactory    Marginally    Deficient
Cycle             Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
Identification                            X
Preparation                                              X
Appraisal                                                X
Supervision                                              X
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project Cycle   Highly          Satisfactory    Marginally      Deficient
satisfactory                     Satisfactory
Preparation                                    X
Implementation                                           X
Covenant Compliance                                      X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly                                Marginally                             Highly
Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
x_ _                _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _



Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Preceding Operations
Title             Sugar Industry Project
Loan Number       2228-MAS
Year of Approval  1986
Purpose           Promotion of the efficient use of sugar industry resources, raising productivity,
making better use of sugar industry by-products and diversifying agriculture.
Status            Closed
Following Operations
There were no ongoing following operations at the time of ICR preparation.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            Planned Date                    Actual Date
Identification                 November 1990                 November 1990
Preparation                                                   April/May 1991
Appraisal                                                     August 1991
Negotiations                   November 1991
Letter of development policy   NA                             NA
Board presentation             December 1991                  March 31 1992
Signing                        March 1992                     July 1 1992
Effectiveness                  June, 1992                     December28, 1993
Project completion             -                              September 1995
Credit closing                 August 31, 1996                December 31, 1996
Source: Project files and Bank Staff estimates
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million equivalent)
Comparative Indicators   FY     FY      FY      FY     FY
93     94      95     96      97
Appraisal estimate       2.0    4.2    7.2    11.0   15.0
Actual                   0.0    0.0    1.4       6.0    6.0
Actual as % of estimate                 19      54     40
Date of Final Disbursement:
Notes: (a) US $ figures rounded to the nearest hundred thousand US$; (b) percentage figures rounded to
the nearest one- percent; (c) US$ 9.0 million canceled on at the request of the Borrower;
Source: Bank MIS and staff estimates



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key indicators in         Main Tasks           Responsible       Estimated       Actual Completion
the SAR                                          Agency         Completion      Date and Comments
Date
Establishment of    Contracting, construction    UStA, MC of  October 1992-94  Not completed.
the UStA power      and commissioning.       BEDP, and CEB
plant.                                      _               _
Sugar Mill         Review of foreign         Bank of          Continuously     Disbursements on
Investments.        exchange applications for   Mauritius     during the       applications took place
items eligible for financing  BEDP        project          during June- September
under the loan.                       _  _                 1995.
Biomass Energy     Study tour, tender        CU of BED,       July 1992-March  To be completed by
Technology Study.   document preparation,    various sugar    1994             December 1997.
pilot system operation,  factories and a
workshops and report     BETS team
preparation.                              _
Bagasse Transport   Procurement of equipment  CU; Rose Belle   July 1992-      Trials on bagasse
Technology Study.   and vehicles. Testing    Sugar Factory    February 1993    compaction system
evaluation and preparation                                 begun in 1996
of final report                                            harvesting season.
(e) Training       Management visits to      Coordination     July 1992        Some training of staff
Program for Power   overseas power stations.    Unit of BEDP                   of UStA.
Plant Staff.       Training of shift engineers,
turbo alternator fitters,
welders, automatic
controls, chemist, and
electrician. Training in
automatic controls
Environmental      Appointments of head of    CU; MSA         June-December   To be completed by
Monitoring         unit and technical                         1992             December 1997.
assistants. Procurement of
vehicles and monitoring
equipment.
Training of CEB    Overseas technical staff  CEB              1992-93          Canceled. Costs were
staff and extension   training in boiler                                       higher than originally
of the Fuel Analysis  management and coal                                      anticipated. Also the
Laboratory         handling. Laboratory                                        Government that the
construction.                                              private sector should
handle fuel analysis.
BEDP Coordination,  Formal secondment of staff MC             June 1992 to     Coordination system is
Reporting and      from MSA and other                         JuLne 1997       operating.
Monitoring         government agencies to the
CU. Procurement of
vehicles and office
equipment. Work program
development and project
reporting.                                        _
BEDP = Bagasse Energy Development Pogrom; BETS = Bagasse Energy Technology Study; BTTS =
Bagasse Transport Technology Study; BOM = Central Bark of Mauritius; CEB = Central Electricity
Board; CU =Coordination Unit of BEDP; MC = Management Committee of BEDP; MSA = Mauritius
Sugar Authority; UStA = Union St. Aubin Sugar Plant. Source: Project files and Bank stiff estimates



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
|Not applicable to this project since there were no such indicators specified at appraisal.l
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                Purpose                   Status and Impact
Studies Originally in   Identifying viable   Whole cane processing trial conducted and
the Project            investment            indicated that the present mill
opportunities for the   configuration cannot handle it. Instead a
Biomass Energy         use of cane residues   cane drying plant was erected and
Technology             ,other than bagasse,   commissioned. It will separate the trash
for the production of  from the cane to be processed in the
electricity.         plant's respective sugar and energy
production streams.
Bagasse Transport      Determine the most   Trials using compaction equipment and a
Technology             cost effective means   towing trailer were satisfactory. However,
of transporting      changes in the configuration of the bagasse
bagasse from satellite  supply system have minimized the need
plants to power plant  for transport.
Studies Added to the
Project
Environmental          To determine the      Study completed in Marchi 1997. It
Assessment of the Belle  environmental impact determined that the Belle View plant
View Plant.            of providing firm     would be less harmful environmentally
power from the       thaan alternative baseload tlhermal
proposed 60 MW       generation plants.
Belle View power
plant to the CEB
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ grid .
Environmental          To assess the         Field data collected in July 1997. A report
Monitoring             technical and         on the findings is scheduled for
financial feasibility    completion in December 1997. Contracts
of pollution         for air monitoring equipment and utility
abatement measures   vehicles have been awarded. Tender
for four sugar       proposals for water quality monitoring
factories by acquiring  equipment are under evaluation.
air emission         Equipment delivery scheduled for
monitoring           December 1997.
equipment and
training personnel.
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



Table 8A: Project Costs
(In US$ million equivalent)
Item                     Appraisal estimate                    Actual or latest estimate
Local       Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign       Total
Costs        costs         Costs        Costs         costs        costs
Establishment of the
Power Plant
Engineering Services        --          1.5           1.5                              X -        X 
Construction of Power      4.7          17.3         21.9
Plants
Bagasse Transport          0.0          0.5           0.5
Subtotal                   4.7          19.3         23.9           --           --            --
Improvement in Mill
Efficiency
Subtotal                   6.3          11.8         18.1          4.0           6.0          10.0
Technology and Staff
Development                                     _           ___
Bagasse Transport and      0.1          0.1           0.2           --0.1                     0.1
Technical Development
Biomass Energy             0.5          0.7           1.2                        1.8           1.8
Technology
Development
Training Program for        --          0.2           0.2                        --            --
Power Plant Operation
Subtotal                   0.6          1.0           1.6                        1.9           1.9
BEDP Program
Development
Coordination and           0.1          0.8           1.0                        1.4           1.4
Environmental
Monitoring
Institutional Support to   0.1          0.2           0.3                        --            --
CEB
Subtotal                   0.2          1.1           1.3                        1.4          1.4
Total Baseline Costs       11.7         33.1         44.9          4.0           9.3          13.3
Physical Contingencies     1.2          3.2           4.4           --           --            --
Price Contingencies        1.7          4.1           5.8           --           --            --
TOTAL COST                 14.6         40.5         55.1     _    4.0           9.3          13.3
Note: All costs rounded to the nearest US$ 100,000 equivalent.
Source: Bank MIS and Bank staff estimates.



Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                Appraisal estimate                       Actual/latest estimate
Local        Foreign        Total        Local         Foreign        Total
Costs         Costs         Costs        Costs          costs         Costs
World Bank                      15.0          15.0                        6.0           6.0
GET                             3.3           3.3                         3.3           3.3
Other              --          23.1                         --            --            --
Foreign
Sources
Local             13.7          --            13.7          4.0           --            4.0
Sources*
TOTAL             13.7          41.4          55.1          4.0           9.3           13.3
Note: All financing amounts rounded to the nearest US$100,000 equivalent.
*Includes local financing institutions, sugar industry and Government.
Source: Bank MIS and Bank staff Estimates
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable to this project. This purpose of this table is to compare the economic rate of return at the
time of project appraisal (18 percent) to a revised economic return of the project on completion. The
original ERR for the project was based on the investment in a bagasse/coal power plant at Union St. Aubin,
to be completed in 1994. Since this investment did not take place, a revised ERR is not applicable.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Covenant        Description                 Original      Revised      Status and Comments
and         Type                                       Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Section                                                Date          Date
Loan        Project        GOM implementation of the    07/01/92     03/11/93     Compliance. Legislation enacted
Agreement  Execution       revised system for bagasse                             under the Sugar Industry
3.02                       transfer payments                                      Efficiency Act.
3.03        Project        Mid-term review of the      06/30/94      11/30/95     Delayed compliance.
Execution     project                                    __
4.01 (b)(1)   Finance      Annual audits of project    12/31/95       12/31/95    Compliance.
accounts
6.01(a)     Project        Co-effectiveness of the CET    10/01/92    12/28/93    Delayed compliance.
Execution     Grant
6.01(b)     Project        Conclusion of electricity and    10/01/92  10/28/93    Non-compliance. The conclusion
Execution     coal supply contracts between                          of these agreements was delayed
CEB and UStA                                          and ultimately abandoned because
the plant investment became
financially non-viable
6.01(c)     Project        Submission by of technical,   10/01/92    04101/95     Compliance. Study completed in
execution     financial, and economic                                June 1993 and updated in April
feasibility study for the UStA                         1995
bagasse/coal plant.                       _
6.01(d)     Project        Completion of the financing    10/01/92   12/01/95     Partial compliance. Package
Execution     package for the UStA                                   prepared but the major investors
bagasse/coal power plant.                             (EIB and Proparco) decided not to
____________________  _____ _  __________     submit the project to their boards.
6.01(e)     Project        Appointment of the BEDP     10/01/92       12/16/93    Compliance. The Sugar
Execution     Coordinator                                            Technologist of the MSA was
appointed to this position.
Schedule 5,  Project       Maintenance of the BEDP     07/01/92      07/01/95     Compliance. The committee
para. I     Execution      Management Committee                                   needs to meet more frequently.
_____________   throughout the project                   _
Schedule 5,  Project       UStA responsible for the    07/01/92      07/01/92     Not applicable. The power plant
para. I     Execution      construction of the power                              was not financed under the project.
plant and acquisition of the
bagasse transport equipment.
Schedule 5,  Project       BEDP to furnish the Bank    07/01/93      12/91/95     Delayed compliance. Assessment
Para, 5     Execution      with an economic and                                   provided in Borrower's portion of
financial assessment of mill                          the ICR.
chedul____Poject efficiency improvements.        _ __
Schedule 5,  Project       Rose Belle Sugar Estate to do   01/03/93  05/15/94     Delayed Compliance. Bagasse
para 6      Execution     the bagasse transport study;                            transport study completed but the
MSA to supervise bagasse                              configuration of the supply system
energy technology study                               has minimized the need for
___ ___ ___ _  _ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ _ _ _    __ _  _transport.
Schedule 5,  Project       BEDP to furnish the annual    09/30/92    05/30/94     Compliance.
Para 9      Execution      work program and reports
GEF         Project        Environmental monitoring    03/31/93      12/31/97     Compliance. Environment
Grant       Execution      cell to oversee                                        Ministry established norms for
Schedule 4,               implementation of                                       wastewater. MSPA was briefed
para. 4                    environmental mitigation and                           on regulations on pollution
the monitoring of plants.                             abatement measures.
Schedule 4,  Project       Submission of detailed      09/30/92      09/30/95     Partial Compliance. Program
para. 6     Execution     training program UStA and                              submitted but did not take place
CEB.                                    _             because of changes in the project.
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable to this project.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of
project cycle         Planned a/                   Actual
Staff weeks     US$        Staff weeks    000 US$
Preparation to      -       -                  5.5          16.0
Appraisal
Appraisal         -         - 
_____________   ___________        ~10.6         27.5
Negotiations
through Board
approval            _                          7.1          18.9
Supervision         - X                       21.7          86.6
Completion          --           --            4.7          10.0
Total               --      I                  49.6        159.0
Note: Figures on planned resource use in staff weeks and US$ not included in the table because they were
not available consistently enough throughout the project cycle to provide a meaningful comparison with
actual data.
Source: Bank MIS data and Bank staff estimates.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number of    Days in   Specialized       Performance   Types of
Stage of project   Month and         persons       field    staff skills        Rating       Problems
cycle        year                                       represented       OBJ/IMP
Tlhrouglh Appraisal
Identification     November 1990         2            23      FA. SE
Preparation        March/                6            33      EC. FA, EE,
And Pre-appraisal   April 1991                                SI, FE
Appraisal          August 1991           5            14      EC, FA,
EE ,SI, FE
Suipervisio__
Supervision I      February 1992*         1           9       PO
Supervision 2      May/June 1992         3            13      EC, AE,               --
*                                         SIS.FA
Supervision 3      Sept./Oct.            3            18      DC,AE, SIS           2/2
1992*
Supervision 4      Feb./Mar.             2            31      AE, SIS              2/2
1993
Supervision 5      July 1993              1           7       AE                   2/2        COV
Supervision 6      October 1993          1            15      SIS                  2/2        COV, PR,
TR
Supervision 7      December 1993         1            14      SIS                  2/2        PR, TA, TR
Supervision 8      March /April          2            29      AE, SIS              2/2        PR, TA, TR,
1994
Supervision 9      April 1995            1            10      AE                   S/U        COV
Supervision 10     June 1995             2            14      AE, EE               S/U        COV
Completion a/      NA                   NA           NA       NA                   NA         NA
*"Supervised in conjunction with other projects.
a/ There was no completion mission for the project.
Staffing codes: AE = Agricultural Economist; DC  Division Chief; DO = Disbursement Officer; EC
Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; FAC = Financial Analyst Consultant; FS= Financial Specialist; LE
Legal Staff; PO = Procurement Officer; SA = Secretarial Assistant;SE = Sugar Engineer; SIS = Sugar
Industry Specialist.
Performance/problem rating codes: OBJ  achievement of objectives; and IMP = extent to which the
project's implementation is proceeding. The project rating codes according to these two categories are as
follows: I=no problems; 2 = minor problems; 3 = major problems; S = satisfactory; U = unsatisfactory
Problem type codes: D = disbursement operations; M = managerial
Abbreviations: NA = not applicable; NR = not reported; and NS = not specified
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



APPENDIX A
OPERATIONAL PLAN



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETICON REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENTF PROJECT
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST -- MAURITIIJS SUGAR BIO-ENERGY
OPERATIONAL PLAN
Related Government Policies
1.    The key government action affecting project sustainability is the continual re-
structuring of the industry to improve efficiency and ensure a future for the sugar sector.
This is a priority because the sugar sector is very important to the economy, accounting
for 33 percent of net exports. The focus is on policies to reduce cost and enhance
efficiency through: (a) greater mechanization and strategic restructuring to reduce the
number of sugar mills; (b) increases in crop yields from different varieties of sugar cane;
(c) a concentration on premium-priced as well as special and organic sugars; and (d) the
development of uses for by-products such as bagasse for electricity generation.
Related Elements of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
2.    The Bank's country assistance strategy is focused on consensus building for key
reforms through non-lending services such as economic and sector work, and
information/education/communication efforts to promote dialogue. The Government has
been concerned about the weak disbursement trend which affected SEDP and other
projects and has set up a Task Force in the Ministry of Economic Planning to resolve
project implementation problems. Another aspect of the CAS relevant for the project is
the improved management of the environment through the Environmental Monitoring
Operation. This includes the preparation of the second National Environmental Action
Plan and Investment Program along with GEF grants for the sugar bio-technology, bio-
diversity restoration and wildlife preservation.
Change in Approach to Bagasse Energy Development
3.    There are two key factors which will affect future operations in bagasse energy
development in Mauritius. First, the least-cost power development plan has determined
that combined cycle thermal power units are the least-cost solution for Mauritius, not
bagasse/coal-fired stations as determined at the time of the SAR. However, there
apparently is an important role for bagasse plants considering their potential multipurpose
benefits: reduced environmental degradation, increased revenues for the sugar industry,
and enhanced security of supply due to less reliance on imported oil. The second factor is
what the Government of Mauritius terms as the "centralization" of power plants. This is
in fact a "consolidation" of sugar industry operations, with only the most efficient plants
producing sugar and generating electricity. This differs from the cluster model on which
SEDP was based -- a regional power plant fed by bagasse from surrounding satellite
plants. Only one bagasse/coal fired station is planned at the present time, at the Belle



Vue Sugar Factory. This station was agreed upon before the new power development
plan was completed. The plan noted that the development was not optimal from the
least-cost point of view but took it as a given in the preparation of the plan because
negotiations were in an advanced stage, though construction had not started.
Least-Cost Power Development Plan
4.    During the implementation of SEDP, a least-cost power system expansion plan
was prepared outside the project to assist CEB in the development of its future generation
and transmission programs. The plan includes an assessment of existing generation and
transmission facilities and recommendations for the least-cost development plan of
system extension, covering the period 1996 to 2015. It projects base case power demand
growth at 8 percent annually during 1995-2000, and a slightly lower overall growth rate
for the longer term, 1995-2015.
5.    The plan indicates that, from an economic perspective, a combination of
combined cycle gas turbine plants (CCGTs) and gas turbines operating in simple cycle
mode for peaking purposes constitute the least-cost plant mix for the planning period.
However, this assumes that CEB will use diesel oil to fire the plants instead of kerosene,
which is the current practice. If CEB were to continue to use kerosene as a fuel, the use
of diesel thermal units would be favored over CCGTs, due to the economic cost of
kerosene. The main factor influencing CEB's use of kerosene is the tax regime, which
results in gas oil being unattractive from CEB's financial perspective, while desirable
from an economic perspective. The report also noted that the presence of diesel units in
the system and CEB's commitment to the future development of the Fort George Power
Station ensures that there will be a baseload diesel generation capability on the system
throughout the planning period. From a strictly economic viewpoint, this is non-optimal,
although it does have the benefit of offering CEB a degree of financial protection if the
anomalous tax position on gasoil and kerosene is maintained. GOM needs to resolve this
issue as it will affect the choice of future plant technology and also the alternative plant to
use in deciding on investments in further bagasse development.
6.    Concerning bagasse/coal fired generation, the plan notes that analysis carried out
in the short-term generation planning work indicated that bagasse/coal fired generation
would not form part of an economic least-cost generation expansion programme, due to
the combined effects of the high capital costs associated with these plants, the
transportation costs of bagasse and the price of coal. However, the alternative long-tenn
generation plan assumed that the following bagasse developments already were
committ,ed and re-optimized the expansion plan accordingly: (a) extension of the FUEL
plant, increasing its capacity by 25 MW, planned to be fully operational in January 1998;
(b) construction of a 33 MW plant at UStA of 33MW of capacity, exporting about 21 to
30 MW to the CEB system, to become operational in the spring of 1998; and (c) the
development of a plant similar in size to the one at UStA by 2001.
2



7.    The results of the analysis indicated that in the baseload forecast the total
economic capital cost of the program incorporating the bagasse amounted to some US$85
million above the least-cost program without bagasse, in present value terms. These
figures need to be updated taking account of the new change in developments of both the
UStA and Belle Vue Sugar Estate Plants.
Joint Venture for a Bagasse/Coal Fired Power Plant at the Belle Vue Sugar Estate
8.    Concept and Ownership. A private company has concluded a draft agreement
with the CEB for the purchase of electricity generated by a bagasse/coal fired power plant
to provide process steam and electricity to a sugar factory during the sugar cane
harvesting season, and to sell electricity to the public network throughout the year.
About a third of the annual power produced would come from bagasse produced by the
sugar factory, and the remainder from imported coal. The private promoter is the Centrale
Thermique de Belle Vue Limitee (CTBV), a joint venture between Belle Vue Milling
Company Limited and the Societe Industrielle pour le Developpement de l'Energy
Charbon (SIDEC). CTBV is owned jointly by the Harel Group (one of the largest sugar
producers in Mauritius) and the Sugar Investment Trust. SIDEC is a French power
developer in which Charbonnages de France and Air Liquide have a majority ownership.
The plant is to be located next to the existing sugar mill on the Belle Vue Sugar Estate,
Mapou in the north of Mauritius, about 14 kilometers northeast of the capital, Port Louis,
and 5 kilometers east of Triolet.
9.    Plant Description and Operation. The plant will, consist of two 82 bar (520-525
degrees) boilers capable of burning bagasse during the crop season and low-sulfur coal
during the rest of the year. The boilers are to feed steamn to either of two 30 MW turbo
generator sets. The plant will export power to the CEB 66-kV network via a 1.3 km
double circuit overhead transmission line. The design of the plant is based on that of two
nearly identical plants built by DILCEC on la Reunion. These were commissioned in
1992 and 1995 respectively and have been operating reliably. They are currently
supplying over half of the overall electricity on the islancl. The plant's economic life is
estimated to be about 20 years. Since Mauritius is prone to cyclones, all buildings and
other structures will be designed to withstand ambient weather conditions. The plant will
have the capacity to supply about one third of the current annual electricity demand.I
10.   Environmental Considerations. The environmental assessment for the project
indicates that bagasse is a relatively clean-burning fuel wvith a negligible sulfur content
and that the coal burned in the station would have a low sulfur content of less than one
In 1996 peak demand on the island and total electricity generation were 1150 GWh and 237 MW
respectively. Of this total production, 80% was oil-fired, 9 percent hydropower, 7 percent bagasse
fired co-generation and 4 percent coal-fired thermnal generation.
3



percent; based on environmental standards used for the project, there is no need for
2
desulfurization.
11.   Power Purchase Agreement. The promoter has signed a power purchase
agreement (PPA) with the CEB for the supply for at least 325 GWh of electricity to the
national grid annually. In addition, some 25 GWh of electricity and 890 terajoules of low
pressure steam will be provided to the sugar mill during the crop season. For the first few
years of operation, the right to export power to the grid is restricted to periods of low
demand but this restriction will be reviewed periodically and adjusted to improve CEB's
energy intake. The European Investment Bank, which will be lending funds for foreign
exchange costs, has noted several weaknesses in the power purchase agreement: (a) lack
of a guarantee or penalty to assure a minimum annual offtake of power by CEB; (b) a
tariff indexation formula which leaves the project exposed to coal price increases during
the pre-commissioning period; (c) lack of a provision for the adjustment of tariffs in line
with increases in taxes or duties on coal in the future; and (d) inadequate definition of the
operating procedures and technical limits governing the export of power. Also the project
is vulnerable to a combination of high inflation, which would increase operating costs,
and the lack of depreciation of the MUR against the ECU, which would restrain tariff
increases.
12.   Project Costs. The total investment cost of the project is estimated at 79.8
million ECU. The operating costs consist of the fuel for generation and the costs of
operations maintenance as a percentage of total investment costs. Belle Vue Milling will
supply the bagasse free of charge during the crop season in return for process steam and
electricity from CTBVL. Limits on the quantities of bagasse and energy to be exchanged
will be defined in a contract between the two parties. The current cost of imported low
sulfur coal delivered to the site is approximately 900 MUR per ton (36 ECU per ton)
including an 8 percent sales tax. The level of duty on the imported coal is under
discussion with the government. The promoter is seeking a reduction from the standard
rate of 15 percent. Other operating and maintenance costs are expected to be about 4
percent of direct annual investment costs including a comprehensive insurance package to
cover machinery breakdown, cyclone damage, penalties for failure to supply power and
loss of profits.
13.   Expected Benefits.  The project will make a substantial contribution toward
meeting baseload electricity demand on the island. Major benefits include better energy
efficiency through improved heat and power production and the economic use of a
renewable energy resource. The project also is linked to the Government's plan to make
the Mauritian sugar industry more competitive by centralizing sugar milling activities.
The project's financial internal rate of return based on the above specification is 10
2  This analysis is based on a report of the European Investment Bank, which is co-financing the plant.
It refers to the European Council Directives on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into
the air from large combustion plants.
4



percent, which is acceptable to investors. The least cost development plan calls for a
gasoil-fired combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) plant for baseload electricity production
along the upgrading of the boilers and alternators at the Belle Vue sugar mill to maximize
the co-generation potential of bagasse during the crop season. The cost of the baseload
power based on CCGT technology and a discount rate of 10 percent is estimated at 47
ECU per MWh. By comparison, the project will have a production cost of 51 ECU per
MWh. If environmental benefits are taken into account the cost falls to 50 ECU per
MWh with an 8 percent economic rate of return. The EIEB report notes that the additional
cost of generating power from coal/bagasse is significant. However, it adds that the cost
is mitigated to some extent by the benefit of diversifying about 20 percent of the island's
electricity generation away from oil-fired generation. The economic appraisal is based on
the following assumptions: (a) the least-cost alternative for baseload generation is a gas-
oil fired combined cycle gas turbine; (b) an alternative cogeneration plant at the sugar
mill is economically viable and would be implemented if the current project were
canceled; (c) the value of continuous power from the altemnative cogeneration plant is the
avoided variable cost of thermal generation; and (d) the current costs of both oil and coal
will remain constant in real terms although the price of oil is subject to greater volatility.
Evaluation of the Mauritian Experience in Bagasse Generation
14.  In an attempt to improve the quality of bagasse generation in Mauritius, the
Government has reviewed the results obtained in la Reunion due to that country's policy
of centralization. In the mid to late 1980s, firm power stations, with two sets of boilers
operating at 83 bars and turbo alternators of 30 MW, were commissioned and have
resulted in the optimization of bagasse use. However, the MSA notes that progress in
Mauritius has been hampered by the difficulties with the UStA project. A report of the
MSA indicates that the performance efficiency obtained by la Reunion in 1996 will not
be achieved in Mauritius even by 2001, at which time all bagasse plants would be
operating according to plan. The key indicators of this performance are: the kWh per ton
handled; kilograms of carbon dioxide produced per kWh; and kilograms of coal avoided
per ton of cane handled. In all these categories, the efficiency of plants in Mauritius by
2001 will be below the 1996 efficiency levels of plants in la Reunion. The reasons for
this lower level of performance are as follows:
(a) The system in Mauritius, except for the planned bagasse/coal fired power plant at
Belle Vue, is making more use of continuous power plants which operate at only 20-30
bars (compared to about 80 bars) and are much less efficie:nt than firm power plants.
(b) Two firm power suppliers would be operating at only 46 bars, with the exception of
the Belle Vue plant which would be operating at about the same level of efficiency as
those in la Reunion;
(c) The bagasse potential of five factories remains almost totally untapped;
15.   To improve performance, the Government proposes further factory modernization
to improve efficiency and overall operational perfonnance of factories and their
5



production of bagasse. Towards this goal, the following actions, which have taken place
in 1997, are significant:
(a) The publication of the blueprint on centralization, outlining the key elements of the
program and facilitating the processing of factory closure requests;
(b) New provisions for land conversion with tax exemption for a conversion from an
agricultural to non-agricultural use of land in order to raise funds to meet the costs of
centralization of at most 20% of the capital expenditures incurred in the erection of the
firm power stations using bagasse and other fuels; and
(c) The possibility of sugar producers to earn foreign exchange (through the Sugar
Syndicate) out of the sale of their sugar consignments.
16.   The Government has proposed further efforts to attain efficiency levels that would
fully tap the country's bagasse potential. To achieve this, the primary consideration is to
design a modern cane sugar factory geared to produce sugar, generate energy, and protect
the environment. In line with this policy, the Government plans to formulate a new
program for sugar industry development and submit it for funding under a new GEF
grant, since the gains from such a program in reducing greenhouse gases are expected to
be significant.
6



APPENDIX B
PROJECT ASSESSMENT BY THE BORROWER



Implementation Completion Reporting:  Bagasse Ernergy Development Programme,
Sugar Energy Development Project Loan and Global: Environment Trust Grant
Energy projects are of long term nature, equally, the planning and phasing in of such
projects is a lengthy process and is largely dependent on sugtr policy. Hawai, Reunion and
Mauritius, islands devoid of fossil fuels, have shown the way and their example can, due
regard being had to the specifities of a country, be replicated in other sugar producing
countries. In such circumstances, a chronological and prdjcdt descriptive approach has been
adopted explaining the achievements and shortcomings of sugar energy policy since 1984
when, with the assistance of the World Bank, the foundations for a systemAtic and rational
approach to policy formulation were laid down and when active collaboration, between the
public and private sectors was initiated. The Mauritian experIlence has also clearly
established the linkage between internal policies and externai trade policioa in several
aspects including the one referring to envirorpent protection and preservatlon. Progress
achieved has been significant, yet therb ls rdo m for improveMnent and the future strategy
adopted and the manner in which it Is implemented would still be topical for other sugar
industries. However, this new venture would require the support of the World Bank and
resources from the GEF.
1957 to the Sugar Sector Action Plan (1985) and the SIE Act (1988)
2.    Use of bagasse to generate electricity for sale to the gtid dates back to 1957.
Production moved fairly slowly till the late seventies when MAdkne entered into a continuous
power contract (i.e. supplying specified quantities of power during the crop season). In
1982, FUEL. signed a firm power contract (i.e. supplying specified quantities of power year
round4iwjth th'e Central Electricity Board (CEB) whereby FUEL was to use bagasse, bagasse
pellets and coal. The other factories which could export electr1city as and when it was
available had intermittent power contracts. Bagasse pellets 6duld not be used as their
production proved to be a dismal failure technically and financially.
3.    The 1985 Sugar Sector Action Plan referring to bagasse energy production Indicated
that the potential would vary according to technical options.s9lected and centralisation and it
recommended a three pronged strategy: Improvement of factory energy efficiency, year
round utilisation of bagasse by having recourse to storage and the erection of new bagasse
fired power stations which could be stand-alone ones i.e. not agsociated with any factory.
The Sugar Sector Package Deal Act 1985 which translated-tho plan Into legislation reduced
the level of export duty payable but did not provide incentiveojfor bagasse energy' generation.
The Sugar Sector Loan (Loan 2728 MAS) which was subsequently negotiated did not allocate
funds on the specific issue of energy generation.-
4.    The SIE Act 1988 further reduced export duty and introduced a package of incentives
for energy generation from bagasse: ranging from performarice linked rebates for bagasse
saved and sold to firm power suppliers to provisions in the: Ir1ome Tax Act whereby a
substantial amount of revenue derived from siates of bagatst:t firm power sUppliers and
electricity by such suppliers were tax exempt. To encourai  IpltaI investmients, the
capital allowance for energy saving was-increased to a le fehere an invest6r.eeu-d-by
adding other allowances recoup the cost of investment In tlieh 'ydatheh it Wa effected.
Shortly after thie passing of the Act, Medine and FUEL reques1  a;nd obtained a review of
their power purchase contracts; Mon Tresor Mon Desert (Mt4lD) signed a new continuous
power purchase contract. All prices were indexed to the d  / vMrage selmng price. It was
also agreed that the price of intermittent power be freezed s&ts to discoura e this highly
inefficient mode of conversion.



2
The High Powered Committee Report
5.    After consultations with the World Bank, a High Powered Committee (HIPC) was set
up in 1991 to devise a strategy for the optimisation of the Lise of bagasse. The Committee-
comprised representatives of all concerned parties and had recourse to World Bank
consultants. Its report contained a comprehensive set of proposals relating t6 a Bagasse
Energy Development Programme (BEDP) and indicated that the successful implementation of
the BEDP would firstly, displace investments to be effectecl by the CEB; secondly, reduce the
reliance of the country on petroleum products and diversify its energy base; thirdly, allow
the modernisation and rehabilitation of the sugar industry, the country's rfnost important net
foreign exchange earner and improve its viability; f.orthly, allow the saVhg of foreign
exchange through the reduction of imports of.,ossil fuels; anrd fifthly, contribute in the
mitigation of the enhanced greenhouse-eftectsby displacing fossil fuels thus avoiding the
emission of additional Carbon Dioxide. The report termed the cane plant a UCarbon dioxide
cleaner'. Centralisation, sine qua non condition for modernisation and energy generation,
was not considered in the report. It was then a sensitive issue loaded with passion and
omotion.
6.    In the strategy adopted, it was agreed that the optimal use of bagasse Would be
achieved through the implementation of projects which would be technically feasible,
environment friendly and financially viable. Recommendations were made in respect of
technical issues, namely:
(-i )   The erection of new firm power plants in the first instance at Union St Aubin
in the South then followed by Belle Vue in the-'North. Such plants would be
equipped with high pressure boilers (around 60 bars) and pelss out
condensing turbo-alternators and would be located within sugar factories so
as to reap the benefits of co-generation
( i i) A regionwise approach whereby each firm power plant would receive bagasse
from a cluster of factories. The satellite factoiles and the power stations are
indicated in the map at Annex 1.
( i i i) All plants would burn bagasse in the crop seasoh and a small part of the
intercrop one, if possible, to obviate the cost and risks associated with
lengthy storage of bagasse. Continuous plants would limit themselves to this
combustible. Firm ones would have recourse to coal with minimal
environmental hazards, for the major part of the intercrop season. It was
understood that the plants would be adequately sized to receive the bagasse of
the satellite factories. And
(i v)  The existing firm (FUEL) and continuous jilahts (Medine, MTMD) would have
to be rehabilitated whilst generation of Inie.,nltttent electricify should be
restricted to a-minimnum.- The possibility--f--v!ng-additknea,apaeity at-
FUEL was considered.
Coal was chosen as complementary fuel as it could b& butrt In the sarme boiler as
bagasse and it provided an opportunity to further diversifytihF,' energy base. Indeed coal
supplying countries are less exposed to political risks and- istabiiity.



3
7.    Recommendations were also made on Manpower Development, conditioning of bagasse
for export to other factories and its transport and the possible use of cane tops and trash as
supplementary boiler fuel. All sources of cane biomass hid been covered.
8.    The HPC basing itself on experience In Mauritius, bilhlIon and Hawall recommended
technical options which have with slight modifications been followed to date., Variations
relate more.to the developments brought about by the prospects of centralisation. The
setting up of independent power plants and the year round utilisation of bagasse envisaged in
the Action Plan had been dismissed as they were not found to be feasible. Environmental
considerations had been given their due place in the energy strategy, traddlissues on the
international scene and future technologicai developr'ents had been evoked1'More
importantly an all embracing approach,, Parri[3 the essential,centralisatiorZ aspect, had been
adopted and well defined parameters lald down to guide those implementing the programme.
This had been made possible through the collaborative attitude of both public and private
sectors and the commitment of the World Bank to partake itsWexperlence in the framing up of
such policies.
9.    The HPC report addressed the bagasse transfer price (btp) Issue In keeping with the
stance adopted by the Bank ever since 1987 (as reflected at Para. 2.31 of the SAR (Report
No. 10037-MAS)) to the effect that This taxation ... ..... has discouraged the sugar
industry from investing in expanding energy development'. .ln 1991, the btp represented
45% of the price received by FUEL and 55% of the one received by Medine and MTMD. After
deductingItfTe,non-corporate sector share, the % would haVde been 30% and 36%
respe6tfely. The MSPA did not then concur with the prop'osai of the HPC on grounds that it
discriminated between categories of planters.
The SEOP Loan and the Union St Aubin power project
i 0.   On the basis of the HPC Report, Government negotlated the Sugar Energy Development
Project Loan (SEDP) for an amount of US$15Mn and the Global Environment Trust Grant
Agreement (GEF) for an amount of SDR2.31Mn. The loan related to projects destined to
enhance bagasse saving In the cluster of factories associated with Union St Aubin. The SEDP
was not fully utilised, only 40% of the amount was disbursed,: Government acting on the
basis of recommendations of the MSA requested a cancellation of the balance i.e. USS9Mn
which was acceded to by the World Bank.
11.   There are several explanations to the limited drawing 8f these funds. Thd most
Important ones being firstly, the slow progress of the Unlon'.t Aubin (USA) project and Its
difficulties; secondly, the non-resolution of the centrallsatior'i issue and thirdly, the
consequent diversion of funds to field operations to foster im'echanlsation and irrigation.
1 2.   The financial feasibility of a firm power is linked td' thi amount of bagasse available
and to the efficiency in coal combustion. A large sized factdty' 'as adequate b'agasse available
in situ and may afford certain shortcoming's iin coal ddrfibuiffl    KmA ediuffdf  such as-
USA has to rely to a large extent on the supply of satellite,ba4 asse and efficient coal burning.
In the course of the feasibility study it became apparent thar 'the sizing of 2 MW
recommended by the HPC would not prove feasible to USA'and had to be increased to 30 MW
to uphold levels of acceptable rates of return.
*                               . .; ,ai,,  . -   |  i~~114   JA
I,'S1   '
.44 -  ,% 9"1''
ii    w.{                   *'    ;l0#   ,S,, E~~~~'.   - .  ,- .



4
13.   Satellite factories were of the view that the price of bagasse should be related to the
cif coal price and determined by the ratio of the yield at ccndensation whilst the HPC had
recommended that "The bagasse supplier will receive a price, for bagasse Supplied arrived at
after negotiations with the purchase?'. A coal linked bagasse price did not favour USA and-it
encountered difficulties to enter into supply agreements vwith its neighbours. The
promulgation by the GoM or MSA of institutional prices woLuld have proved contrary to
market competition rules. The recourse to coal in the absence 'f such bagalse could only be
worse. Moreover, price indexation represented a bone of contehtion betweerJ the CEB and
USA. In such circumstances, the satellites opted to use the funding options .available in the
plantations and other work stations in the factory. Riche en Eau, a major potential supplier,
in the cluster, signed a continuous power contract with the CEB in 1994 as it had excess of
bagasse for which it had no buyer.                                'l
1 4.   The uncertainty on the bagasse supply"situation of LISA would have been dispelled If
additional canes had been received as a result of centralisation. Bel Ombre, which was in the
cluster, was a potential candidate for closure and had indeed held preliminary discussions
with USA but the climate was not conducive to factory closures.
Funding and the fiscal framework
1 5.   The SEDP loan was expected to service the requiremnrits of the satellite factories of
the USA cluster. The implementation of the BEDP needed mnore substantial resources. Access
to loans denominated in foreign exchange was constrained by the cost, 12% or more, largely
influenced by-the exchange risk as the Rupee was depreciating by some 5% yearly vis a vis
major curiencies. Local finance could be secured at 14% or rhtore. To facilitate the BEDP,
the Finance Act 1992 made provision for sugar companles ;to-talse tax free debentures for
the production of electricity from bagasse and the modernisatlon of sugar equipment. The
cost of borrowing came down to 9 to 11%. As a further incentive, the Finance Act 1993
amended the Income Tax Act to enable, in cases of segregated4activities, growing companies to
offset losses incurred by millers in respect of capital expenditure effected fbr the
production of electricity and the rehabilitation and modernisatlon of sugar factories.
1 6.  In 1993 the SIE Act 1988 was amended, the export.'duty was reduced and
rationalised so as to eliminate the disadvantage to large millf-Introduced in 1985 and
exacerbated in 1988 and the performance linked rebate scherti' was extended to producers of
firm electricity who saved and used their own bagasse and rnillers selling bagasse to
continuous power stations. In addition, regulations under the Customs Tariff Act were
promulgated whereby a proportion of capital expenditure incrUrred In respect of efficient
equipment used to enhance bagasse saving and use and electricity generation was refunded in
the form of rebates on export duty payable.
1 7.   The SIE (Amendment) Act also made provisions for thb btp In line with the
recommendations of the HPC and WB. Eleven rmebers of the MSPA, to the exclusion of the
firm (existing, FUEL, and potential, USA) and continuous pi5Wer suppliers, have challenged
the relevant section of the Act in the Supr6m6 Court on grouids thmt it represented  a--
violation of their property rights under Sections 3 and 8 of the'Constitution.' The case has
not been heard yet.
1 8.  In 1994, following a Memorandum of Agreement betWieen GoM and thd Sugar
Companies, the export duty was abolished. The companies'had. inter alia, to segregate



5
growing and milling activities and set up public milling cormpanies where the Sugar
Investment Trust, which has planters and workers as its shareholders, would hold 20% of
the equity. In 1995, a new Income Tax repealed the existing one; howeverq the provisions in
favour of energy generation were retained and in additiontax on milling cortipanies was
brought down to 15%. These measures coupled with therliemoval of excharhge control further
reinforced the investment friendly environment. The framework had been established and it
was up to each individual operator to effect the investment decision. However, the
uncertainty on the fate of certain sugar factories and price indexation wei6 major obstacles
to decision taking.
The new  approach to centralisation
1 9.   A Board of Enquiry constituted to exarsihe the request for closure 6f the factory St
Antoine recommended it subject to a certain number of conditUons. The novel ones were
drawn from the submission of St Antoine which had come up With a package deal approach in
respect of centralisation. Workers instead of belng redepolyed to other factories were
offered options, they could either take up alternative empl6ytient or accept! a voluntary
termination of their contract of emnployment against an ex-gratla payment in cash and kind.
Planters were entitled to a fund destined to foster their productivity. This approach
represented a milestone in the centralisation process.
20.   In 1994, owners of another factory, The Mount, caM6 up with a request for closure
which encompassed an improved package deal, and stated that this closure was warranted by
the need, to -rationalise operations and more Importantly to 8et up the firm power plant In the
north t.'e>Belle Vue. Planters and workers negotiated the package but did hot challenge the
principle of a closure. Consequently, the request was acceded to and the Ministerial
Statement to the National Assembly referred to the "organic link between centralisation
and energy generation from  bagasse".
Energy Pricing, the Technical Committee and Power 'Purchase Contracts
21.   In 1995, USA and CEB requested the Ministry of Energy to interpret the
price/indexation clauses of their contract. A technical cormiTiittee under the chairmanship of
the Secretary for Energy of the Ministry and comprising'bf fepresentatives of the
Ministries of Energy, Finance and Planning, the MSA and the,PEB was set up for that purpose
and also to determine the cost of the Fort George installatlont so as to arrive at the avoided
cost for firm bagasse/coal based power plants. The World, Bahk had also worked out
principles and guidelines which were used by the committee.' In August 1995, the avoided
costs, economic and financial ones, were determined and prieds recommended for coal and
bagasse units. The indexation mechanism which had to reflect costs and be delinked from CEB
tariffs was left to negotiations, conducted under the aegis/gu!dadnce of the comtnittee between
the CE8 and the operators. All the requicwd signals werehn64 In place.
22.  In 1996, USA, saddled with numerous difficulties arid 'ondemned to increase
throughput and installed capacity (37 MW)' in order to att a 'reason a1nacial rettrtn
decided not tQ proceed with the firm power project and opted' for a long ternm continuous
power one. It was immediately followed by Savannah, which was in the cluster of USA.
Following a pricing determination exercise for continuousipw-er based on the August 1995
one by the Technical Committee, the contracts of the new'and existing continuous power
suppliers (USA, MTMD, Savannah, Riche en Eau) were  fffidisdett These fahtories then
,     -
'   ''*X1'S';.0 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



6
undertook to effect the required investments in respect of boilers and turboalternators.
Then onwards requests from Deep River Beau Champ (24 MW firm), Mon Loisir (14 MW,
continuous), Mon Desert Alma (12 MW, continuous), Belle Vue (2x30 MWI:flrm) and FUEL
(18 MW, firm in addition to the existing 22 MW Installation) have been entertained.  In
two cases, Deep River Beau Champ and Belle Vue, it had been specifically stated that the
projects would only be viable if canes of closed factories wete directed to these two factories.
Medine, a continuous power supplier, is having discussions with the CEB and the Technical
Committee. Centralisation and the difficulties encountered by USA with satellite factories
had nearly completely eliminated the cluster approach.
23.   Progress achieved since 1988 and expected as from 2001 is Illustrated below:
Table l:     Evolution of Bagasse Eg*rgy and avoIdance of emIsslon of
Greenhouse Gases' n .'Mauritius and R4union
GWh from   kWh/t  Kg CO2/ Tonnes Coal   Kg Coal        Tonnes
Year      Bagasse    Cane    kWh    Avoided    Avo6ded/t  Additibnal CO2
Handled            000 t   Cane Handled _  Avoided
Mauritius
1988               72    12.8   18.85          44           7.8          133
1996              1 1 8    21.9   11.50        7 3         1 3.5         2 42
2001              360    62.0    3.77         222          38.2          670
Rdunion<.-
1996              200   11 0.0    2.25        1 23         68.0          371
In an era of globalisation, it is essential that performance In Mauritius be compared
with that obtaining in other countries. It is of course understood that local Cohditions should
be taken into account but should not become a reason to urderperform.
The relatively better results obtained in R6union a Overseas Department of France,
are due to the fact that the centralisation is over and only two factories with crushing
capacities In excess of 800,000 tonnes each are left. Firrm pofer stations with twin sets
made up of boilers operating at 83 bars coupled with turboalternators of 30MW were
proposed in the mid to late eighties and commissioned without-major constraihts with the
result that bagasse use has been optimised. Progress in Mauritfus was hampered by the
various factors enumerated above. The R6union level of 1 996 Will not be achieved by
Mauritius even in 2001 when all the power plants would be at 6ruising speed. This is
explained by the fact that:                         -.
(i)   recourse is still being had to-continuous powe6 plants which operate at 20-
30 bars and are less efficient than firm power Onlges;
(iI)  two firm power suppliers would operate at 4Es b'as and only-re Vue wouid -
be using 83 bars as In Reunion; and
(ii i) the bagasse potential of five factories remains nearly totally untapped.
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I



7
24.   Boilers, turboalternators and other energy saving equipment represent a major
proportion of the cost of a factory, some 50%. The energy project will not'only Increase the
revenue of sugar companies but it has enabled them to undertake the majot part of the mill
investment programme with equipment destined to be in operation for 15 tj'25 years. In
cases of firm electricity supply where milling and power'activities are segfSgated, the
former will receive steam and electricity for free in exchange of bagasse, hot water and
condensates during the term of the power purchase contract, at least 25 years. Those mills
that are associating energy generation and factory closure (Belle Vue, Deep River Beau
Champ and Mon Desert Alma) would have undertaken the near totality of their long term
investments.
The key figures in respect of the power statio,n are at Annex II, th i hew factory area
layout is at Annex Ill. The evolution of power and sales estimates is givet'iinr table 11.
Table It:    Installed power capacity and electricity sales as from  1985
onwards
Year    Installed capacity MW      GWh        GWM         GWh.      Power
______  Firm      Continuous   bagasse      coal       total      Plants
1985       5 2          10       200-300        -      200-300         4
199 1     8 8           17          200        200        400          6
2001     1 24.5        .B8          360                   755         10
Evolutlb'n of the projects under the GEF grant
25.   Originally th.e grant was to fund:
(i)  the development and local adaptation of technologies for transport and
handling of bagasse, the bagasse transport technology study;
(ii)  initiation of a programme of trials and experiments leading to possible future
use of cane tops, leaves and trash for power generation;
(iii) training for technical personnel In. bagasse and coal power plant operations;
(iv)  establishment of an Environmental Monitoririg Cell for the Sugar Industry in
MSA to ensure that environmental mitigation plans are implemented, and to
establish an environmental monitoring systertl covering the'.sugar industry;
(v)  training of CEB staff In boiler management ahd coal handling 'and
strengthening CEB's laboretory-for fuel quality analysis; and'
(vi)  strengthening of MSA In its role as Secretarlat for the BEOP ~Ianagement
- Committee, including the establishment of a gEDP Coordf'a'ti6ri Unit within
. MSA.
26.   The GEF was modified to take into account new circurrtitances, the abhrtdo6ment of the
USA project, the new orientations in combustible procurement, the non-coblusi ieness of
certain trials, the growing importance of environment corsiiderations In wldltrade, the



8
need to mitigate the negative incidence of extraneous matter on mill performanice and sugar
recovery and the scope of the Belle Vue power plant project. The bagasse transport
technology study was maintained, training of personnel waslminimal due to the-fate of USA
project, the coal laboratory aspects were not pursued as coal procurement wak to be left to
private operators. New items were included:
( i)   dry cane cleaning plant in the context of the biomass energy technology study;
( i i)  acquisition of monitoring systems for air emission and effluents as a follow-
up of the characterisation of sugar industry waste study and the subsequent
promulgation of norms;
( i i i) conduct of an environment assess;pent of Ihe 2x30 MW plant,dt Belle Vue; and
(iv)  feasibility study on municipal waste/bagasse/coal incineration for electricity
generation.
It is forecasted that al! of thp GEF grant would be utilised.
27.   The bagasse transport technology study has been undertaken at Rose Belle factory.
Highlands, St Felix and Britannia which are all situated in the 'viscinity of power stations
could use the findings of the study to export their surplus bagasse. Over tlire, however,
with the centralisation process, it Is highly likely that all existing factories will be
associated:.with either a firm or a continuous power plant1thus'completely avoiding bagasse
transport- .-Nonetheless, the results obtained In this study 'would be relevant to countries
where the cluster concept may apply.
28.   Trials were conducted to compare factory performance in processing whole cane with
cane free of extraneous matter and those being sent under hormal harvesting rhethod.
Technical difficulties were encountered during processing and it was concluded that cane
sugar factories in their present configuration cannot handle such-whole cane biomass.
Separation of cane trash from cane. and processing the two fractions in separate streams for
energy generation and sugar recovery offered the most atttactive solution.
29.   Indeed, clean canes require firstly, a lower milling 'capacity, which is effectively
measured as tonnes fibre per hour and secondly,'lesser cidahtities of lmbibitiorn water
resulting in saving of energy required to evaporate the water. They facilitate better mill
extraction with a lower energy input and considerably minimize the presence of
melassigenic factors which tend to bring down sugar recovery. Cane trash directed to the
boiler enhances combustible availability.
30.   To achieve the objective of separatiqn of cane and eXtra&1eous matter a'dry cane
cleaning plant was designed and erected. It is currently being tested and would be rendered
operational by the end of 1997. This plant serves a usehil pu'rpose in the ifl&istry which is
seriously beset by the probTeff 6f canes having a high loe5ctRFeoUs m*1ti1 1` 1-
development work on this plant is being closely followed bY sWvetal power tbdppliets.
31.   The environment friendliness of the cane plant can be; demonstrated o4 two fronts,
firstly, the avoidance of the emission of carbon dioxide throiJgh a more efficiet!t use of
bagasse and secondly, the monitoring of compliance with environment norms. these second
,  *        32-  '~~~~~
i            S :- Z~~~~. 



aspects was adequately covered in the GEF grant agreement.
32.   In 1989, the World Bank organised a seminar on environmental issUls which
crystallised ideas thereon and triggered action in many other sectors. Sube4tuently, MSA
came up with the idea of undertaking of a Characterisatiorf of Sugar Industty Waste Study
(CSIWS). The terms of reference of the study were formulated by the MSA and approved by
the World Bank as it was initially the intent to fund it from:the Sugar Sector Ldah,; however,
certain administrative impediments prevented such a funding. 'GoM stepped In and'the
CSIWS was conducted under the aegis of the MSA with the assistance of forOfgn consultants,
the MSIRI, the University of Mauritius and sugar companies. The report Wts submitted in
March 1994 and recommended norms to be complied with in a phased mann,^;r so as to give
adequate time for sugar factories to adapt themselves. T4';e norms were exa4iined by the
Ministry of Environment and promulgated for effluents in Match 1997. ThA4e in respect of
air emission have been finalised and will,be prvmulgated shortly. The figures gazetted are
those of the CSIWS report with slight variations.
33.   On the basis of the recommended and/or promulgated norms, the mrnoritoring system
was designed and is now being acquired. The feasibility o6frhplementing pollution abatement
measures to meet the norms is being worked out for four factories.
34.   The environment friendliness issue has now become a cornerstone of the
international sugar policy of Mauritius and that of the ACP States which are contracting
parties to the Sugar Protocol. In-the preambular part of the Marrakesh Agreement on the
establishment of the World Trade Organisation emphasis is placed on envitormental
consider,apons. Pursuant to a Ministerial Declaration of Marrakesh, the WTO.has set up a
Committee on Trade and Environment. Some WTO membere 'strongly contend that trade
liberalisation, in particular in agriculture, would consider;ably enhance erMfronment
protection/preservation. The ACP on their part contend that It: is precisely the existence of
preferential trade accords which have enabled them to creat-e ` frarmework odHduclve to
environment protection and preservation. In their efforts t6.`ounter the atguments of free
traders in agriculture, the link between the maintenance oftheir acquis ard the environment
is forcefully put forward. Mauritius as the major stakeholdet'of the Sugat Ptotocol has
therefore to demonstrate the validity of the arguments put forward and has so far been
successful but efforts have to be pursued.
The MSA as the project executing agency
35.   The MSA as implementing agency of the project has been guided by a'result oriented
and minimal cost approach and the need for maximum inv6ovement of all diredtly cdrtcerned
parties and technicians at all levels of decisions. In the co'Uise of the project the:capabilities
at the MSA and to a lesser extent in related institutions hav& been considerabif etihariced.
There is now a pool of professionals who are familiar and&Vibvrsant with .Ject"
formulation, tender document preparatioh,tender assessm'htf conduct of 'NOW. OXperiments,
energy pricing, price indexation, contractual issues and Wiill in a neai'tU`tul&^th.aster
the handling of sophisticated environment monitoring syst'd41Thts pool 9lates as a
network will prove extremely useful in the future to tackle and hiandle nur r,U&fiew and
complex issues- locally and in other sugar producing countri`es0) The experi'  ithered In
the BEDP' and GEF projects has already been put to use to f,ormulate new ptc etts, hamely,
the desugarisation of cane molasses and the incineration o, municipal waste ,&gasse/coal for
energy generation.



1 0
The BEDP Management Committee (BEDPMC) and the- Tedhnical Committee
36.   The BEDPMC was recommended to provide a forum tor discussion and decision. It
drew its membership from all players who were then deemed to have a key role. Since
1991, the legal, institutional, corporate and financial landscape has drastically changed.
Moreover the MSA was in presence of disclosure and conflict of interests issues. Indeed,
information on tenders of a confidential nature could not be disclosed and power stations and
satellite companies had different interests at stake. Alternative fora were instead utilised,
regular consultations were held between MoF, Ministry of Energy, MSA, CEB and the
relevant MSPA membership i.e. the core group of the SliDPMC. As from 1995 the Technical
Committee became the forum where most, if not,all, of the outatanding issueA were discussed
and cleared. The Committee was in constant liafon with the power producers. The GEF was
conducted on the network concept i.e. all appropriate resources were pooled and teams
constituted in relation to the requirements of the day. The option chosen was less
cumbersome than the BEDPMC, had the advantage of being flexible and result.oriented and
avoided controversy.
Main achievements
37.   The objectives of the BEDP have been largely met although Mauritius has not yet
achieved the full optimisation of energy from bagasse under existing state of the art proven
technology as is the case in Reunion. The main achievements of -the BEDP, SEDP and GEF are:
t I j   enhanced confidence of the private sector In the potential of bagasse
as a reliable source of energy and a utility company fully supportive
of the efforts to optimise the use of local, renewable and
environment friendly resource
(I i)  electricity output will have Increased five. fold from  1988 to 2001;
similarly avoided emission of carbon dioxide would have risen from
133,000 tonnes to 670,000 tonnes;
(iIi)  most of the factories that would be In.6peration from  2001 onwards
would have completed at least 50%  of their factory Investments
(iv)  the sugar industry would be a major energy supplier In the hext
decade, 40%  of demand In 2001 and at least 25%  in 2010;
(v)   the local private sector has acquired experience In negotiations with
International financial Institutions and 1s teaming up with major
foreign  partners;
(v i)  Mauritian companies based on their local e.xperlence coUld bffer
their services and participate In Build  Operate Transftr- and Build
Own Operate projecfs in -cotuntries of 'The ';gibn;   1' 
(vii) i robust, reliable Internationally  recogrilsed  environment protectlon
and monitoring system  would be In place;



1 1
(viii) an institution, the MSA, well prepared and organised to face the
challenges and problems of the sugar industry and to enable the
industry to avail of all new opportunities;
(I x)  an efficient technical committee which has been instrumental in the -
finalisation of the nine power purchase contracts signed so far;
(x)   a fiscal and legal framework highly conducive for investments in the
energy sector; and
(x I)  workers and planters of the Industry would be stakeholders in
milling or power companies.
The next decade and the rationale for a new. GEF
38.   Since 1985 the sugar industry has undergone'considerable change. Unfortunately the
challenges ahead are daunting and the industry will have to live up to them. The challenges
are endogeneous, increasing costs and exogeneous, the possible decrease in revenue as from
2003 onwards. Continued factory modernisation, centralisation and the optimal use of by-
products are warranted.
39.   When the HPC report was prepared, computations of bagasse availabitity was made on
the basis, firstly, of "reasonable steam consumption targets" and secondly "steam
consumption of 300 kg/steam/t cane handled". The first wave of centralisation would be
over by the year 2000, the 21 factories which were In operation when the Action Plan was
being prepared would come down to 14. Decreasing sugar revenues and increasing costs
would unddoubtedly trigger further factory closures which In all likelihood would be
intimately associated with efficient power generation. In such circurnstances a higher
efficiency in bagasse utilisation would lead to a more significant avoidance of carbon dioxide.
Use of extraneous matter and bagasse at a steam consumption of 300 kg steam may lead to
generation of more than 800 GWh, double the amount expected in 2001. However, in the
future, new bagasse/coal based power stations will have to compete with stand-alone coal
power stations, combined cycle gas turbines and heavy fuel oil turbines. On the basis of 6
million tonne canes handled the following can be expected.
Table ill:  Expected figures and projections from  2001 onwards
Projected figures 2001 (expected)
kWh/t cane handled                         133               62.0
Kg CO2/kWh                                  2.05             3.77
Kg coal avoided/t cane handled   _          85.2             38.2
Kg additional CO2 avoided/t cane handled    257             11 5.5
40.   In 2001, sugar proceeds on the basis of stable ecu priceg are expected to bring some
Rs8.Obn whilst energy sales would amount to Rsi.4bn, I.e. 17.5% of the former.' In a
context i.e. after 2003 where price reductions may take place, the relative importance of



1 2
energy sales will increase, the more so if quantum leaps are made In terms of output.
Bagasse units as explained earlier yielding higher gross margins than coal ones.
41.   The following events which have taken place In 1997 will undoubtedly foster further
factory modernisation and energy generatlon, namely:
( i)   the publication of the blue print on centralisation where the elements of the
package deal have been spelt out, this is expected to facilitate the processing
of factory closure requests;
( i i   the new provisions governing land conversion whereby exemption on the tax
payable is granted if a conversiopi from agricultural to non-agricultural use
is made with the purpose 9f raising funds to meet the costs of centralisation
or meeting at mosta2Q0%,.f the capital expenditure Incurred in the erection of
firm power stations using bagasse and other combustible; and
(iii) the possibility for sugar producers to have the foreign exchange earned by the
Sugar Syndicate out of the sale of their sugar consignments.
42.   It therefore follows that further investigations should be conducted with the
objective of attaining such levels of efficiency that would fully tap the bagasse energy
potential; it being understood that policy measures should also be in place. To that end, it is
believed that the primary consideration should be the clesign of the modern cane sugar
factory geared to produce sugar, generate energy and safeguard the environment In the most
efficient rrlanner. A new programme has to be devised and submitted for funding under a new
GE&  grant as the expected gains in terms of mitigation of enhanced greenhouse effects would
be substantial.
Mauritius Sugar Authority
*              '!  :. h..,' ..  '-  .  :    .  .;,~~~



CLUSTER OF FACTORIES AND POWER STATIONS
B .VUE
0L
F.U. E.L.
MEDINE  <t            
Legend:
.  *: Firm power plant



Annex II
Sugar Factory      Installed       Units from    Type of power   Date of   Segregation
capacity         bagasse          supply      entry into      of
_______J)_         (GWh) "                       operatlon   activity  '
1. Savannah           14.S              20        Continuous       1997 9          N7
2. Riche en Eau        12.0             18                        I1997 N7
3. Union St Aubin      12.5             16                         1997            No
4. Mon Tresor          12.5             14                         1 997           No
Mon Oesert
5. Deep River          24.5       47 (after the    Firm, 40 GWh    1998            Yes
Beau Champ                     cl,ure of       from coal
Constance)
6. Belle Vue          2 x 30          115 i '      Firm, 235 GWh  2000             Yes
from coal
7. Mon Desert          14.5       18 (initially)    Continuous     1997            Nb
Alma                          40 (after
centralisation)
8. FUEL                40.0        50 (own         Firm, 120 GWh  new one          Yes
'22 existing,  bagasse)        from coal       In 1998
18 new)
9. Mon Loisir           12              20         Continuous      1997            No
10. Mddine              10              20        Continuous       already         No
(potential of                   existing
more than 30)
Total             124.5  firm     360 as from     395 from coal
and 88.0        2001
continucus
Estimates of MSA.
2      Milling and power ac:vvities conducted by separate entities with the sugar growing company
having 80% in the former and more than 50% in the latter.
This figure could be higher once the Midlands Dam is operational.
.. . .. . . . . .. . . . ._ v..



MAP OF MAURITIUS
SHOWING
FACTORY AREA LIMITS
Factory Area
3C  tIIAU CI/AMP
eps   o  ul-QE f
nW /LLE VluE
3    17'RTANNVA
C    C(NS TANCE.
q    IIIG//LANOS9                               w                         . 
MEO MKOVINE
MOA  MON VtSERT ALMA                                BV,
ML   MU0-' LUtS/I?
MTMO MON NRESOn fON Or,E,T
P /(ClE EN FAU
Rs   &^ROSE BELLE
SF   St. FELIX
SAV  SAVANNAH
UISA  U St AUO'; ,}                    t '      'bDA*@-s*                   L*
FUEL r        4 u f 4 iFU E L .
/'    At+st+"~~~~' '.''.
(.  .:  .   t    i':   )    5      +       I oZ 'NotU'dercafl
t  .  >  g        SRS > X~~~~EE.
. ._  _ >  -_+_4wX;_  @- -   - P  t--+_+%+ +    X . - *           -%          -- 
-  .  -@/+_+_ tKf \x+ $ 3 0 }~~~~~4
.+~~~~ ~ ~ ~ :6                                                     .. .. 4  ...AV






It






IBRD 19358R
A
:
NOVEMER 1994



