DoCment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 13055
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1585-LSO)
MAY 16, 1994
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
April I through March 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency of Lesotho:              Maloti (M)
At the time of Appraisal (1984):         USS1.00 = M 1.98
At the time of completion (1992):        US$1.00 = M 3.00



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
PCR           -      Project Completion Report
SDR           -      Special Drawing Right
MCH           -      Maternal & child health
FP            -      Family planning
PHC           -      Primary health care
MOH           -      Ministry of Health
MOW           -      Ministry of Works
WAHU          -      Works' Architects Branch - Health Unit
EEC           -      Information, education, communication
NDSO          -      National Drug Stockpile (now, Supply) Organization
TB            -      Tuberculosis
NHTC          -      National Health Training Center
GOL           -      Government of Lesotho
CPR           -      Contraceptive prevalence rate
PHAL          -      Private Health Association of Lesotho
QE II         -      Queen Elizabeth II (hospital)
PHN n         -      Second Population Health and Nutrition Project (Cr. 2059-LSO)
HPP           -      Health and Population Project (Cr. 1585-LSO)
STD           -      Sexually transmitted diseases
LDA           -      Lesotho Dispensary Association, now LPC
LPC           -      Lesotho Pharmaceutical Corporation
EPI           -      Expanded Programme of Immunization
HPSU          -      Health Planning and Statistics Unit
PCU           -      Project Coordinating Unit
EEC           -      European Economic Community
DANIDA        -      Danish International Development Agency
HSA           -      Health service area
RCIP          -      Rural Clinic Improvement Program
IUD           -      Interuterin device
LNDC          -      Lesotho National Development Corporation
ICB           -      International competitive bidding
LCB           -      Local competitive bidding
UNICEF        -      United Nations Children's Fund
UNIPAC        -      United Nations Procurement 
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development
LDTC          -      Lesotho Distance Teaching Center
UNFPA         -      United Nations Family Planning Association
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
HIS           -      Health information system
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
IDA           -      International Development Association
LPPA          -      Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association
ODA           -      Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
WHO           -      World Health Organization
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Programme
PSA           -      Public Service Administration
AIDS          -      Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
RSA           -      Republic of South Africa
NGO           -      Non-governmental organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offic, of Director-Genoral
Operatons Evaluaton
May 16, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Lesotho
Health and Population Project (Credit 1585-LSO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Lesotho - Health and Population Project
(Credit 1585-LSO) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II, prepared by the Borrower,
highlights the limited efforts deployed by the Bank to nurture borrower ownership, ensure quality at
entry and provide implementation assistance.
The project aimed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of Lesotho's health delivery
systems, including family planning services. Inputs for this purpose included technical assistance,
training, equipment and new infrastructure. While there were some lapses, the project outcome is
satisfactory and sustainable, and modest institutional development was achieved. Some of the lapses
stemmed from the fact that the project was overly ambitious given that it was the Bank's first
operation in the health sector.
The Project Completion Report is of excellent quality. It includes extensive, useful comments
attached to the tables in Part m.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutles. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






LESOTHO
PROJECT COMPLMTON REPORT
LTH AND POPULATION PROJECI
(Credit 1585-LSO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                                         i
Evaluation Summary                                                             j;
PART I        PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                            I
A.    Project Identity                                                   I
B.    Project Background                                                 I
C.    Project Objectives and Description                                 2
D.    Project Design and Organization                                    3
E.    Project Implementation                                             5
F.    Project Results                                                    10
G.    Project Sustainability                                             13
H.    Bank Performance                                                   14
I.     Borrower Performance                                              15
J.     Consulting Services                                               16
K.    Project Documentation and Data                                     16
L.    Lessons Learned                                                    16
PART II       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                        19
PART m        STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                           22
A.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits                                 22
B.    Project Timetable                                                 23
C.    Credit Disbursements                                              24
D.    Project Implementation                                             25
E.    Project Costs and Financing                                        26
F.    Project Results                                                    29
G.    Status of Covenants                                                33
H.    Use of Bank Resources                                              35
Annex I       Training Output as at October 1992                                38
Annex H       Consultant Services - Status as at October 1992                   40



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHQ
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 1585-LSO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Health and Population Project (HPP) in
Lesotho, for which Credit 1585-LSO in the amount of SDR 3.7 million was approved on April 23, 1985.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1992, two years after the original Closing Date. The last
disbursement was on September 14, 1993 and the sum of SDR 561,893.83 is to be cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the the Population and Human Resources Operations Division of the
Southern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
The PCR is based, inter ai, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit Agreement;
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank' and the Borrower, Progress Reports by the
Borrower; internal Bank memoranda and interviews with Bank staff/consultants and Lesotho officials who
were closely associated with the Project. A Project Completion Mission visited Lesotho in October 1992.
Although the Project was financed with an IDA credit, 'the Bank' is normally used in
this report when refering to the World Bank as an institution, or to its staff.
i






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit I585-LSO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives and Scoge
i.           The project's objectives were to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of Lesotho's health
delivery systems by a) strengthening the organizational structure of health and family planning services; b)
redirecting health and family planning investments toward periurban and rural areas and away from
overcrowded hospitals; and c) improving health and family planning service provision, with the specific aim,
among others, of increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate by 10% per annum. These objectives were
timely and appropriate and were consistent with recommendations in the Bank's population, health and
nutrition sector review undertaken in 1980, which were generally accepted by the Government. In line with
the objectives, the project provided technical assistance, training, equipment and new infrastructure in support
of new management systems (in manpower, finance, health information and communications), strengthened
TB control, family planning and drug distribution, and for establishment of a national health training center.
The project's design and organization were basically sound, although preparation proved to be inadequate in
some areas and a less ambitious project may have been preferable, given that it was the Bank's first lending
operation in the health sector.
Implementation Exnerience
ii.          Given that this was the first IDA-financed project in Lesotho's health sector, overall project
performance was satisfactory, with implementation improving with experience. On the physical side, civil
works were satisfactorily completed, albeit with some delay and cost overruns. While some significant gains
were realized, improvement in the management capacity of the Ministry of Health was less than expected,
due to the failure to utilize all of the training and technical assistance offered. However, the foundation for
improved performance in financial management was laid, which can reap important benefits if appropriately
followed up.
iii.         The main variances between planned and actual implementation were: a) higher civil works
costs than estimated, necessitating redesign and a late start of most civil works, and consequent delays in
completion; b) construction of four rather than five filter clinics; c) the failure to utilize project funds for
innovative population activities or for some of the technical assistance and training envisaged; and d)
substantial delays in completing the personnel review and health and nutrition survey.
iv.          Several factors are thought to have contributed to these problems: inadequate preparation of
some components, including insufficient involvement of field service managers; weak project management,
with inadequate reporting, accounting and record-keeping, and inadequate follow-up to project activities; a
hiatus in Bank supervision during a critical stage and lack of continuity; and insufficient attention to project
progress by senior MOH management, due to political uncertainties.
ii



Results
v.            Despite the problems noted above, the project marked a significant turning point in the
delivery of health services in Lesotho, by redirecting services toward primary health care for the masses.
Expansion of health services in remote rural areas has greatly improved access for the catchment populations.
Also, the incorporation of family planning into maternal and child health services and the strengthening of
MCH/FP service delivery, attributable in part to project activities, have resulted in increased contraceptive
usage, with the CPR having increased by more than the 10% annual growth rate targetted. In 1991/92, the
CPR was estimated at 22% as compared to less than 10% prior to the project. The establishment of a
decentralized financial management system, a national TB control program, and a National Health Training
Center have all been important accomplishments. With the strengthening of NDSO and revision of the
National Drug List, the supply of drugs and contraceptive commodities has also improved. The Government
has taken important steps towards consolidating health services offered by MOH and churches into a unified
national health system through, among other things, a harmonized charge structure for FP services. Some
objectives were not achieved, however, and the expected benefits will only materialize if the Government
takes appropriate follow-up action, primarily in the areas of health manpower planning and development, and
health education strengthening.
SustainabiUlty
vi.           Lesotho is likely to derive long-term benefits in the health and social sectors from the project
as a result of its success in strengthening primary health care and family planning services in the country.
Also, the strengthening of capacity to train health staff in-country will provide significant long-term benefits,
provided that employment in Lesotho's health service remains attractive for highly trained Basotho.
Considering Lesotho's weak financial base and the fact that quite a large proportion of health expenditures
are recurrent in nature, greater improvements in efficiency and cost recovery as well as continued assistance
from external donors will likely be required if Lesotho is to sustain or improve service delivery in the future.
vii.          An important risk to the sustainability of the project is Government's very weak capacity to
maintain its buildings and equipment. Responsibilities for maintenance between MOH and Ministry of Works
are not sufficiently clarified, and budgeting procedures are inadequate to ensure that sufficient funds are
allocated for this purpose. Bank and donor funded upgrading and extension of a number of rural clinics,
district hospitals and QE II hospital in recent years has greatly increased the financial and technical
dimensions of this problem.  A quite dramatic increase in budgetary allocations and a considerable
strengthening of maintenance systems and capacity will be necessary for the Government to adequately cope
with these challenges.
Findings and Lessons Learned
viii.         With this project, the Bank started a positive contribution to Lesotho's health and population
sector, by enabling implementation of its primary health care strategy and beginning a process of strengthened
management of the sector. Among the major lessons learned is the fact that some of the delays in project
implementation could have been avoided by better project preparation and management from the start. Also,
project implementation might have benefitted from a more thorough information and launch process to ensure
full commitment by all component managers. Major investments such as these should be undertaken only
if it is clear that the financial and staffing resources will be available to allow them to function. And
technical assistance will only have the desired capacity-building payoff if certain minimum conditions are met,
including but not limited to the presence of suitably qualified and motivated counterparts.
iii



PROIECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHo
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJIECT
(Credit 1585-L,O)
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. project Identit
- Name                Health and Population Project
- Credit Number       1585-LSO
- RVP Unit            Africa Regional Office
- Country             Lesotho
- Sector              Population and Human Resources
- Subsector           Health and Population
B. Prolec Bld=und
1.1          Sector Development Objectives. Since the early 1980's the principal objective of the
Government's health sector has been to reduce morbidity and mortality by emphasizing the preventive
aspects of health care and by broadening the population's access to health services. To accomplish this,
the Government undertook to provide primary health care (PHC), including family planning (FP) and an
expanded program of immunization against childhood diseases, through an extensive network of rural
health clinics and village health workers, supported by district level hospitals. The Government also
decided to take advantage of the existing health facilities operated by the private sector, primarily church-
run hospitals, by incorporating them into the health system in a coordinated manner, and to improve
health systems management by decentralization and reorganization of the Ministry of Health (MOH), by
improving the pharmaceutical supply system and by manpower development and training.
1.2          Policy Context, At independence Lesotho's health care system was highly centralized
and hospital-based and the first national development plans focused on expanding the curative system,
training, and establishing rural clinics for MCH services. In 1979, towards the end of the second plan,
the Government adopted PHC as the national strategy for providing basic health services to the entire
population. The goal was to reduce mortality and morbidity by emphasizing the preventive aspects of
health care while also broadening access to curative services. Good progress was made during the third
plan period with the construction of additional health centers and the training of service providers. Under
the fourth plan (1986-91) emphasis was given to developing a truely national health system, which
included both private and public health facilities, while pursuing the PHC strategy for achieving 'health
for all by the year 2000.'
1.3          The Bank's population, health and nutrition sector review in 1980 emphasized the need
for Government to give priority to (i) slowing the rate of population growth; (ii) increasing the efficiency,
effectiveness and coverage of the health care system, particularly the MCH services; (iii) consolidating
the Government and Private Health Association of Lesotho (PHAL) operations into a unified national
health care system; (iv) strengthening communicable disease programs, particularly against TB and STD;
and (v) strengthening the Government's capacity to plan, organize, manage and evaluate its population,



2
health and nutrition efforts. The Govermment accepted the recommnendations and found that they would
provide a good basis for developing a first lending operation with the World Bank and other donors, the
Health and Population Project (HPP).
C. Project Oblectives and Description
1.4          Proiect Obies.y The main objective of the project was to improve the effectiveness
and efficiency of Lesotho's health delivery systems in responding to the health needs of the population.
Specifically, it was meant to assist the Government in achieving this objective over a four year period
by
(a) strengthening the organizational structure of the health and family planning services by
training and posting national staff in key positions, thus assisting in the transition to self-reliance;
(b) redirecting health and family planning investments toward peri-urban and rural areas, and
to relieve the pressure on hospitals through the establishment of filter clinics and preventive
programs;
(c) improving the health and family planning and program implementation process through
training and improved supervision; and
(d) increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) by 10% per annum during the project
through improved FP/MCH service delivery and supplies.
1.5          Proiect Comnonents.  The project included four components:
(a)    Strengthening of MQH's organization and management by undertaking a personnel review and
job classification study; by strengthening the health information system (HIS), in part through
greater use of computers; by strengthening financial management through introduction of
decentralized financial management, and refinement of budget, accounting and reporting systems;
by strengthening communications through completion of the network of two-way radios linking
headquarters with health facilities; and by establishing a project coordination unit to help monitor
project activites and prepare future investments.
(b)    The expansion and improvement of health and family planning services through the renovation
and upgrading of 18 rural clinics and the construction of five filter clinics in peri-urban areas;
the expansion and improvement of FP services through the provison of FP training, equipment
and contraceptive supplies, and the improvement of FP record keeping; the improvement of
health education, particularly in the areas of FP, MCH and TB/STD/leprosy; the establishment
of a national TB program; and support for innovative population programs or activities both in
and outside MOH.
(c)    The expansion and imnrovement of national drug manufacturing and drug distribution system
through expansion of the Lesotho Pharmaceutical Corporation (LPC); construction and renovation
of facilities of the National Drug Service Organization (NDSO); and strengthening of drug
procurement, distribution, inventory control and management procedures.



3
(d)    The upgrading of training and skill levels of health nersonnel through the establishment of a
National Health Training Center; training of MOH staff and health service providers, both
overseas and in-country; and development of manpower and training plans for all cadres of MOH
personnel.
D. ProJect Design and Organization
1.6          The Health and Population Project (HPP) derived its conceptual foundation from the
Government's policy in the health sector to expand primary health care coverage for the population, while
increasing efficiency and effectiveness, and from discussions between the Government and the Bank on
the findings of the health and nutrition sector review in 1980. The Government accepted the Bank's
recommendations as a relevant basis for developing the project, and initially conceived of a small
technical assistance project designed to increase MOH's capacity in three areas (information systems,
accounting, and financial planning and analysis) and to train health service providers in family planning
and expanded EPI coverage. Preparation - by MOH's Health Planning and Statistics Unit (HPSU), with
assistance of Bank staff - began in 1982, and was initially limited to this modest objective. In 1983,
however, the Government requested the Association to consider broadening the scope of the project to
include infrastructure development aimed at increasing access of the population to improved health care
and at establishing a national health training center. Further preparation was carried out in 1983 and
1984 by HPSU, with the assistance of IDA and WHO and, for the TB and NHTC sub-components, of
advisers financed by the Government of Ireland.
1.7          The project was appraised in September 1984. Negotiations were held in March 1985
and the Credit Agreement was signed on July 24, 1985. By the time of appraisal, a number of
cofinanciers had been identified: the Government of Ireland (Ireland), the Kingdom of Denmark
(DANIDA), the European Economic Community (EEC), USAID, WHO and UNDP had each agreed to
contribute to the implementation of specific components.
1.8          The MOH had overall responsibility for project implementation, with responsibility for
specific components resting with the regular line management structure of the Ministry; during appraisal
all component managers were identified. A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was established within the
MOH's HPSU for the purpose of coordinating planning, budgeting, procurement and disbursement. The
Director of the HPSU was designated as Project Coordinator, with day-to-day responsibility for
overseeing project implementation resting with a full-time Deputy Project Coordinator, supported by a
project accountant. This arrangement was modified in the third year of the project (1988) when it was
decided that the PCU would also coordinate activities under the second, much larger population, health
and nutrition project, then being appraised (PHN 11). In order that the HPSU might concentrate on health
planning, which was weak, rather than on project implementation, the Deputy was made Project
Coordinator and the PCU was made to report directly to the Principal Secretary - Health, with
implementation responsibility continuing to rest with the various component managers.
1.9          The Ministry of Works (MOW), through its Architects Branch - Health Unit (WAHU)
had responsibility for design and construction of the main civil works, with specific tasks, for which
expertise was lacking, contracted out to private firms. Responsibility for the rural clinics improvement
program (RCIP) was vested in a unit of the Ministry of Cooperative and Rural Devleopment, which had
already successfully upgraded or constructed over 50 clinics for the MOH using local labor, with
financing from EEC and AfDB.



4
1.10          Although conceptually sound, project implementation arrangements worked imperfectly,
with individual component managers not always accepting responsibility for the success or failure of
components under their jurisdiction, a situation aggravated by frequent shifts in key personnel. Thus,
monitoring of project progress fell to the PCU, whose full-time Deputy Project Coordinator in the early
years of the project exhibited few skills in this area. The situation improved with the transfer G. the PCU
to the Principal Secretary's overview in 1988, and the institution of regular meetings of the Project
Advisory Committee, comprised of component mangers and chaired by the Principal Secretary.
However, several factors have meant less than perfect functionning, even with a strengthened PCU:
imperfect understanding of and commitment to the project by MOH management due to frequent changes
in leadership; several changes in task management responsibility within the Bank, with the inevitable loss
in institutional memory; and the overlap of the second PHN project with similar objectives and activities,
leading to confusion and some loss of attention to the first project.
1.11          Given the objectives of the project as eventually agreed, its scope and scale is considered
appropriate. However, with the rather weak management structures at most levels of the health system
and the scarcity of skilled personnel in key management positions, the project may have attempted to
achieve too much in too short a time. From the overall results of the project, it is clear that the
infrastructure elements were given priority, and that the capacity-building elements which were to have
been the focus of the project as initially conceived did not receive adequate attention during project
implementation. The most innovative aspects of the project - management improvements in MOH and
provision for innovative population activities outside the health ministry - are unfortunately those which
enjoyed the least success. The one exception to this would be the successful introduction of decentralized
financial management in the health sector, which has become a model for other branches of govermment.
1.12          Ideally, the PCU should have been kept fully apprised of all financial arrangements with
the project co-financiers and of all donor-funded project activities, including the status of disbursements.
However, this was not the case, with funding from bilateral and other UN agencies having been handled
through other Government channels. The drawbacks to this were not apparent until an attempt was made
to confirm final project costs, since supervision missions did regularly touch base with donor
representatives in the field and were kept abreast by them of ongoing activities. Cofinanced project
activities progressed largely as anticipated, in some respects more smoothly than IDA-financed
components, due - perhaps - to the presence of a donor representative in-country. With the strengthening
of PCU management in mid-1990, the PCU has taken greater initiative in keeping itself informed about
cofinanced activities, but no system has been established to allow the PCU to track total project
expenditures.
1.13          The most serious deficiency in project design appears to have concerned the filter clinic
component, whose preparation was faulty and lacked sufficient understanding of the filter clinic concept.
Among the problems encountered were: the underdesign of facilities so that their ability to function as
a filter clinic was compromised (for example, no staff accomodation to allow 24-hour service); faulty site
selection, in one case too far from the target urban population; failure to reach agreement with the
Military on ultimate responsbility for clinic operation; and failure to assign sufficient staff to allow the
clinics to function as expected. It is now apparent that the parent hospital management should have been
involved from the beginning, along with HPSU and WAHU in carrying out a detailed needs assessment,
including the location of the clinics, the level of service to be provided, targets to be achieved in reducing
the load on hospital outpatient services, and staff to be shifted from the hospital to the new facility. Some
of these deficiencies were addressed in preparing PHN II, and the last filter clinic financed under this



5
project was designed by WAHU in close consultation with the staff of Leribe hospital, as well as with
MOH staff responsible for introducing specific programs (eg., youth counselling).
1.14          While the construction of almost all facilities went reasonably well, the lead-time allowed
at appraisal for design development, bidding and approvals was clearly unrealistic, resulting in almost
all construction being started and completed far later than scheduled. Reliance on the in-house capacity
of MOW for the detailed design of a large number of the facilities, even though it was recognized that
WAHU was already overstretched, should perhaps have been avoided. However, it must be admitted
that pre-contract time also proved to be insufficient in those cases where external consultants were
employed.
E. Project Implernentation
1.15          The main variances between planned and actual implementation were: (a) higher civil
works costs than estimated, due to inadequate designs prior to appraisal; (b) the late start of most civil
works, and consequent delays in completion; (c) construction of only three of the five filter clinics
initially included in the project; (d) extension of the Closing Date by two years, when it was decided late
in the project to use credit savings to construct a filter clinics slated for PHN II; (e) the decision to
upgrade the TB laboratory at QE 11 hospital rather than establish three regional laboratories as initially
envisaged; (f) the failure to utilize funds available for innovative population activities, or for technical
assistance in manpower development, health education, and pharmaceutical logistics; (g) the substantial
delay in completing analysis of the Health and Nutrition Survey; (h) the failure to follow up on the
personnel review and job classification study; and (i) the failure to prepare and maintain project progress
reports, accounts and records as envisaged, particularly in the early years of the project.
1.16          Some of the problems encountered during implementation could have been either foreseen
under project preparation or avoided during project implementation. For instance, given that this was
the Bank's first lending in the health sector, it would have been prudent to have devoted more time to
project preparation once it was decided to include rather extensive civil works, and perhaps to have
insisted that all site acquisition was completed prior to credit negotiations. In retrospect, it is clear that
more detailed designs should have been completed as a basis for estimating project costs. A more
thorough assessment of existing and planned health facilities in Maseru was also warranted prior to
proceeding with the filter clinic concept, since it only came to IDA's attention several years into the
project that clinics were already being constructed in the vicinity of two of the filter clinics to be financed
by IDA.
1.17          Construction of the filter clinics was initially delayed by the difficulty in acquiring the
necessary land. When supervision missions eventually learned that other clinics were under construction
near two of the Maseru sites, those clinics were dropped from the project. Unfortunately, the alternative
clinics in Maseru have never opened, due to staff shortages or other problems. Equally unfortunate, the
IDA-financed Maseru clinic also has never opened, as it was meant to replace a small facility operated
by the Military nearby, but the MOH has been unable to reach agreement with the Military (which until
very recently was running the Government) on the need to close their facility and transfer MOH staff to
the new building.
1.18          The problems with the two filter clinics outside Maseru had their roots, as mentioned
above, in the inadequate preparation of this component, and particularly the failure to involve the parent
hospital sufficiently in the planning, location and design. The clinic at Linotsing in Leribe HSA was built



6
too far from the urban center to function as a filter clinic, and its design was inadequate even as a rural
clinic. The facility stood empty until staff housing was added two years later to allow it to function in
this remote location. A required storeroom and waiting mothers' lodge are being added under PHN II.
The filter clinic at Likhoele in Mafeteng opened only in February 1993, some four years after completion,
apparently because some of the local officials had not been convinced that transferring staff from the
district hospital would, in fact, be sensible. Since it opened, however, congestion at the hospital OPD
has decreased due to its convenient location and lower fees. Some additional staff will be required for
the clinic to be fully operational.
1.19         Although acquisition of the site for the Maputsoe filter clinic - added to the project only
in late 1990 - was also protracted, its design and construction went smoothly, and the clinic opened nearly
on schedule in February 1993. The design was undertaken by WAHU with assistance of consultants, and
after consultation with interested parties. It was completed within estimated costs, which were, however,
considerably more than initially estimated for filter clinics under this project, due to both cost increases
and significant refinement in the conceptual framework for filter clinics in the meantime.
1.20         Except for the filter clinics, the civil works and other "hardware' elements of the project
were implemented largely as envisaged at the time of appraisal, though most were seriously delayed. The
minor improvements to the computer room and the supply of equipment for it, as well as extension of
the two-way radio network and provision of vehicles for supervision - all a part of MOH strengthening -
were completed in a timely manner and are operating as expected.
1.21         Construction of rural clinics was carried out largely as anticipated, although with
substantial cost and time overruns. The five clinics financed by EEC were completed very early on,
being a continuation of a program already underway. The start of work on the 13 clinics financed by
IDA was delayed until 1987, because of the absence of counterpart funds. Otherwise, the cost and time
overruns are attributed to underestimating transport difficulties, lower than expected performance of the
construction teams, and a statutory increase in local wages. Although the quality of work is somewhat
uneven, in general, the facilities are attractive and functional. All have been supplied with FP teaching
and IUD insertion kits and staff had received the relevant technical training. Some necessary additional
equipment will be supplied under PHN II.
1.22         The construction of three regional TB screening facilities - initially included in the project
to help identify infected miners newly returned from South Africa - was reconsidered after South Africa
introduced in 1987 a system for screening miners for TB every six months, all detected cases being
treated before discharge and referred to Basotho authorities when they returned home. It was eventually
decided to utilize the Irish funds allocated for this purpose to strengthen the central laboratory at the
country's main referral hospital, QE IH, to enhance its capability for TB testing and analysis, with some
upgrading of HSA laboratories also being provided. These works were completed in early 1988, about
two years behind the original schedule.
1.23         The civil works undertaken at NDSO were also delayed, owing to more elaborate design
proposals than envisaged at appraisal, which had to be scaled back to coincide with available financing.
The workls were awarded to different consultants and contractors, and the quality of the design and
workmanship varies. The warehouse extension was well built, although some remedial work had to be
done to the service pit. The design of the housing component was generally less successful, and the need
for some remedial work is apparent. The hostel appears underutilized and is badly maintained. NDSO
secured financing from other sources for the goods handling equipment, having utilized the DANIDA



7
funds for needed air conditioning. The LDA civil works were delayed because the Lesotho National
Development Corporation (LNDC) did not initially have sufficient funds for the envisaged loan, and other
funding was sought. Eventually, LNDC acquired funds from the European Development Fund for this
purpose, and these works began in 1988. NDSO did not utilize the services of a logistics adviser, it
being felt that sufficient expertise existed in-house to strengthen drug supply and distribution. While
some strengthening is noted, shortages and stockouts continue to occur from time to time.
1.24         The most extensive of the civil works included in the project, those comprising the NHTC
complex, experienced some difficulties, but these were eventually resolved. The start of construction was
delayed by about a year, when it became apparent after completion of detailed designs that the original
cost estimate was inadequate. Designs had to be scaled back and some hard decisions taken to remain
within the amount budgeted. It was eventually decided to reduce covered walk-ways by one-third, to
drop the proposed workshop and five of the six planned staff houses, and not to bitumenize the access
road; construction proceeded on this basis. Prior to completion of construction, however, it was decided
to add a second story to the teaching block, since that proved to be more cost effective than adding a
second story in several years' time. Construction was completed about two years later than orginally
estimated. The buildings, which were designed by the MOW architect, are attractive and functional, with
a maintenance free character. The overall concept and use of materials was good, but detailed design
could have been better in selected areas, particularly in the administration block, the dormitories and the
laboratories. The workmanship is generally good, with the exception of plumbing in the dormitory
blocks which now needs to be replaced. All the buildings are well utilized and have sufficient capacity
for current needs.
1.25         In general, procurement of civil works and equipment, financed by IDA, took place in
accordance with procedures outlined in the Development Credit Agreement; i.e., ICB, LCB or local
shopping, depending upon the contract amount. The contracts for civil works (all under one million
maloti) and the contracts for furniture were all awarded to firms based in Lesotho. Most vehicles and
equipment were procured internationally, through UNICEF and UNIPAC, respectively, though a few
vehicles were procured using local shopping, with IDA's approval.
1.26         As was true of the "hardware" components, experience in implementing the capacity
building aspects of the project was also mixed. The implementation plan proved to be overly optimistic
in almost every case, but ultimately expected benefits were achieved in some cases, although not in
others. According to project files, the difficulty in recruiting technical assistance for the project was, at
one point, thought to be related to the uncertain political situation in neighboring South Africa.
1.27         The technical assistance provided by Ireland to NHTC and the TB control program was
somewhat delayed in arriving in-country, but once in place, significant progress was made in putting in
place functionning programs where before there had been nothing. The acting director/advisor to the
NHTC arrived in-country in May 1986, about eight months later than envisaged in the Staff Appraisal
report, but only a few months later than suggested in the 'HPP Implementation Document" provided by
Bank staff to the PCU. Government appointment of a counterpart was unfortunately delayed even longer,
and the selected person was named only in December 1986. After graduate training abroad in educational
administration, she took up her duties as full-time NHTC Director on April 1, 1989. The adviser
remained until March 1990 to ensure a smooth transition, the Government of Ireland having agreed to
extend his contract beyond the originally estimated two-year period.



8
1.28         The TB adviser arrived in-country in mid-1986, some nine months later than initially
expected. Identification of a counterpart proved very difficult, given the extreme shortage of Basotho
doctors in public service. In the end, the Government of Ireland agreed to extend the advisor's services
throughout the project period to ensure the TB control program was well established and has continued
to do so as part of PHN II. A counterpart was eventually identified and was to join the program in 1992
after completing her training abroad. Unfortunately, she left Government service before returning to
MOH, her husband having accepted a job outside the country. Identification of a local counterpart
remains a high priority.
1.29         The computer programmer advising the HPSU joined MOH in January 1986, and the
financial adviser returned to the country in July of that year, four and twelve months later than initially
envisaged. The primary counterpart to the financial adviser was the MOH's Financial Controller, who
was exposed to modern financial concepts through successful training abroad. Together, the three-person
team developed and pilot tested a decentralized budget accounting and reporting system which is now in
place for all health facilities and has been used as a prototype for other ministries as well. The financial
adviser's contract was extended through December 1990, first under HPP and eventually under PHN U,
to assist in implementing these and other financial reforms within the Ministry. As expected, the
computer programmer helped to install new computing equipment purchased for the HPSU, to develop
programs to assist the statistics unit to process data received from HSAs, and to train MOH statistical
staff. As the Government was unable to identify a suitably qualified programmer to take over from him,
his contract has been extended several times, and his services continue to be provided under PHN II
project funding. Some strengthening of the HIS was accomplished with assistance from a USAID-
financed expert so that that to be provided by IDA under the project was not taken up.
1.30         Establishment of baseline data for the project did not prove possible. A National Health
and Nutrition Survey was undertaken in 1988-89, a year later than planned, but considerable problems
were encountered inputting data, and the results of the first round were available only in late 1991. The
final report is still awaited.
1.31         The start of the personnel review and job classification study was delayed a year, due to
longer than estimated time for the EEC to identify suitable consultants and reach final agreement on the
scope of work. After its completion in late 1987, MOH put the study on hold, expecting to undertake
a review of its organizational structure with WHO assistance. A new organizational structure for the
Ministry was announced in mid-1988, but the necessary analysis of staffing needs has never been
completed, so that the new organization exists on paper only. The failure to complete this exercise also
meant that development of the health manpower training plan could not go forward.
1.32         Completion of the 2-way radio network linking all major health facilities was successfully
implemented, although somewhat behind schedule. The technical assistance provided was successful in
facilitating installation and in training clinic staff in its use and maintenance.
1.33         Implementation of the health education component did not progress as expected. The
HEU never engaged the IEC management specialist who was to spend six weeks at project
commencement drawing up a detailed work program and staffing schedule for the HEU. As a result,
staffing needs for the unit were never analyzed nor a work program elaborated for meeting the priority
health education needs of the various programs. The HEU also never took advantage of the short-term
technical assistance provided for on-the-job training of staff and for assistance in preparing campaigns
and educational materials, although this was available to some extent through USAID-financed assistance.



9
Because the staffing plan was never finalized, most of the specialized training was never taken up. As
expected, a number of health education materials were contracted out to the Lesotho Distance Teaching
Center (LDTC), but that agency proved unable to live up to its contractual obligations due to management
problems, and only a small portion of the requested material had been completed when the project closed.
The HEU did procure the equipment provided under the project and in-house production capability has
been enhanced.
1.34         Relatively little of the training in family planning that was to be provided under the
project was utilized, the MOH taking advantage, instead, of funding which became available from
UNFPA for this purpose. Under that training, large numbers of service providers were exposed to family
planning motivation and service provision techniques, as the MOH attempted to incorporate family
planning as an integral part of maternal and child health care.  Disappointingly, however, the
incorporation of family planning into the curriculum for basic training of nurses and other health
providers and that for regular in-service training has been inadequate. Until this is done - now underway
as part of PHN II - new graduates of Lesotho's nursing schools will not have received sufficient training
in family planning concepts, methods and skills before their first placement.
1.35         At project appraisal, it was planned that the EEC would fund the supply of contraceptive
commodities throughout the project period, by permitting the Government to utilize some of the
counterpart funds from the EEC's monetized food aid. Ninety percent (M 825,555) of the EEC
commitment for contraceptive supply and IEC activity was transferred to the PCU account soon after
project commencement, but in June 1986, the PCU was able to account for only about half of the funds.
Project records do not reveal whether the other funds were ever accounted for, or whether the EEC
released its final contribution, but USAID and UNFPA were eventually approached to finance the
contraceptive requirements from 1987 onward, which they did. For the most part, the supply of
commodities was adequate, but various items were periodically out of stock at NDSO. The management
of logistics is being addressed under PHN II.
1.36         Although the principles of project management and implementation were clearly
formulated in the Staff Appraisal Report, these appear not to have been well understood by all staff with
responsibilities under the project, due, in all probability, to their inadequate involvement during
preparation, the fact that there was no formal "launch" of the project following credit effectiveness, and
staff changes in key management positions throughout the project period. While some component
managers were pro-active, others took little initiative to see that their project activities moved forward.
Unfortunately, coordination and monitoring of the project was weak, as evidenced by the failure of the
PCU to prepare and maintain project implementation schedules, progress reports, accounts and
expenditures records. Although early supervision missions spent a great deal of effort helping the deputy
project coordinator to put in place systems for project monitoring, having prepared a detailed 'Project
Implementation Volume" for his guidance and that of the component managers, these were ignored in
practice. Without them, he was apparently not able to keep track of the multiple activities that needed
to be moving forward simultaneously. It also appears that the project would have profited by more
frequent supervision missions. Two project review missions visited Lesotho within the first year after
credit effectiveness, followed by a hiatus of visits for the next 16 months. From early 1988, the
frequency of review missions increased to at least six month intervals. Reporting and recording by the
PCU also improved from mid-1990, when a new Project Coordinator was appointed.



10
F. Prolet Results
Strengthening of MOH's Organization and Management
1.37         As is evident from the above discussion, project objectives were only partially achieved.
With regard to the strengthening of MOH's organization and management, the strengthening of financial
management may be considered a success. While further improvements are certainly possible and,
indeed, required, a sound beginning has been made in establishing improved budgeting, accounting and
reporting systems which will enable the Ministry to track expenditures, to improve efficiency, and to
project future budget requirements. The decentralized financial management system is now well
established. It has prepared the ground for a program budgeting system that was introduced in MOH on
a pilot basis in 1988/89 and, from 1989/90, has been implemented generally in Government, serving as
a model for the Ministry of Finance's Financial Management Manual for Managers and Senior Managers
in the Lesotho Government, issued in April 1992. . The strengthening of communications was also
successfully accomplished. All major health facilities now have access, through the 2-way radio network,
with headquarters. This makes it possible for health providers to report drug shortages or other problems
and to obtain advice in case of emergencies. The improved communication has also undoubtedly had a
positive impact on staff morale, especially at some of the more remote facilities, where it has proved
indispensible.
1.38         The delay in completing analysis of the health and nutrition survey, or the more recent
demographic health survey, has meant unfortunately that no reliable data exists which can be used as a
base line for measuring improvements in health status. This has limited the impact of the modest
improvements made in the health information system under the project. The computerizing of health
statistics and training of staff has, however, formed a good basis for additional strengthening of the HIS,
currently underway as part of PHN II.
1.39         The MOH has, as yet, seen little improvement in its efforts to strengthen manpower
development. The personnel review and job classification study, carried out under the project, is
probably no longer relevant, given the time that has elapsed since study completion without significant
follow-up. The Government's failure to take necessary action to implement its reorganization of MOH,
announced more than five years ago, means that staff remain in a kind of limbo concerning their roles
and responsibilities. The deterioration in staff morale noted by project supervision missions attests to the
cost which this has had on Ministry operations. Disappointingly, the Government has also failed to act
on measures agreed as part of PHN II to help correct the situation.
1.40         While it is difficult to pinpoint the reasons for this disappointing outcome to date,
discussions with relevant parties and a review of the little documentation available suggest that several
factors have played a role. First, under the country's structural adjustment program supported by funding
from the IMF, the Government has, since 1988, been under considerable pressure from both the World
Bank and the IMF to contain costs of its public administration. This led the Government to freeze
existing public service posts and to put a cap on new positions, notwithstanding its agreements with
various donors to fill selected positions with qualified staff in order to meet project objectives. While
a case could always be made to the Public Service to create or upgrade specific positions, the MOH
appears to have been reluctant to do so in any major way in the political environment then prevailing.
Second, the Public Service Administration has, for some time, been discussing with the UNDP
undertaking an extensive reform of the Public Service. The MOH was discouraged by officials in the
PSA from moving forward with its reorganiation until that had been accomplished. Unfortunately that



I1
reform program stalled in the early 1990s. Third, the uncertain political environment which prevailed
in the five years prior to the recent elections has meant that senior Government officials were sometimes
reluctant to take initiatives, however desirable, which could possibly be construed as being politically
unpopular. And, fourth, the changes in task management within the Bank has meant that staff associated
with the project were unfamiliar with the background and constraints impeding implementation. It is
hoped that, given the new Government now in place, the MOH will decide to move forward with its staff
development program, and take advantage of technical assistance offered under PHN II (i) to make a
strong case to PSA for implementing its reorganization, and (ii) to begin formulating and implementing
training plans linked with manpower requirements.
Expansion and Improvement of Health and FP Services
1.41          The successful upgrading of 18 additional clinics in hard-to-reach rural areas has
significantly increased both the quantity and quality of health service provision in the country, allowing
the MOH to provide a full range of PHC services to catchment populations. The objectives for
establishing filter clinics (improved access and reduced congestion in hospitals) has been partially
achieved in only one (at Likhoele) of the five clinics initially included in the project and in the filter clinic
(at Maputsoe) which was to be provided under PHN II. A full complement of staff will be required
before full benefits of these investments will be realized.
1.42          Although all expected project activities in support of the family planning component were
not undertaken (innovative activities, curriculum revision, logistic strengthening) or were financed by
other donors (service provider training), there can be no doubt that family planning service delivery was
substantially strengthened over the course of the project. The MCH/FP service delivery has improved
considerably and services are now generally available to the target population. There is close cooperation
between MOH, LPPA and PHAL in the area of family planning, facilitated by the existance of an inter-
agency Task Force, and a harmonized charge structure is in place at all service facilities. Those PHAL
facilities that offer only "natural" family planning methods refer clients to other facilities for advice on
modern methods. During field visits to government and comrnunity clinics, family planning services
were found to be offered in an integrated manner throughout the working days. Field staff indicated that
they had received adequate training in MCH/FP, including refresher training on modern contraceptive
methods. Depending upon which estimate of contraceptive prevalence one accepts as prevailing in 1985
(estimates range between 5% and 10%), the CPR grew by between 12 and 24% per annum over the
project period, as compared with the 10% per annum growth targetted. The recent population sector
review undertaken by the World Bank estimates that the 1992 CPR was 22%, and that the family
planning program has reached the "take off" stage, where rapid declines in fertility can be expected if
certain recognized deficiencies are addressed. This is a considerable accomplishment, and one for which
the Government should be proud.
1.43          Although the capacity of the health education unit to produce materials in-house has
increased as a result of the project, the objectives of this component were only partially realized, due to
the apparent reluctance of the division to utilize technical assistance provided. Due to staff turnover,
capacity on the ground remains limited, despite many man-years of training provided to unit staff over
the past decade, with funding from USAID, ODA, WHO and IDA. The population sector review
recently undertaken by the Bank concluded that the unit will only be capable of fulfilling its required
specialist role in health education if the MOH demonstrates its commitment to this end by asking an
experienced administrator to head it, and by undertaking two key planning exercises: (i) development
of a Perspective Plan for the division, defining its institutional linkages with other relevant units of MOH



12
and with other key agencies outside the Ministry, and including a career service structure and staff
development plan; and (ii) development of a comprehensive and cohesive communication plan, stating
prioritized programs and major communication approaches. The development, under the project, of
campaign and health education support material (on TB, STD/AIDS, breast feeding and family planning)
by LDTC is thought to have had little, if any, impact. Very little material was produced, some of it only
five years after surveys of community needs and perceptions were conducted, and the MOH has given
it only limited distribution.
1.44         Project objectives in establishing a National TB Control Program have been achieved.
Innoculation against TB has been incorporated into the regular immunization program, TB treatment
protocols have been developed and are in use in all health facilities, care and follow-up of TB patients
is improving, and data collection has been strengthened. Adherence to the treatment regimen and
reporting requirements are assured through quarterly visits to all HSA's for supervision and field support.
The Government's decision in July 1990 that TB treatment is to be provided free of charge gives ample
evidence of its commitment to the program. In sum, the TB program is now well-established as a
framework for combatting this widespread disease.
1.45         Although LPC and NDSO have been plagued with financial problems over the last two
years, drug manufacturing and distribution have improved significantly as a result of the project. LPC
has improved efficiency and quality control for all its production and currently manufactures about 50
different drugs, including oral penicillin and oral TB drugs. Production and procurement of drugs for
Government facilities are now generally as per the revised National Drug List of about 200 drugs,
although in practice MOH allows the purchase of an additional 50 drugs to accommodate special needs
at the hospital level. NDSO improved its drug supply capabilities over the project period, and drug
ordering and supplies are (from 1992) coordinated through the HSAs. The fact that NDSO continues to
run out of various commodities periodically suggests that technical assistance in logistics is still required,
however.
Strengthening of In-Counta Training Capacity
1.46         The NHTC has been successfully established as an institution capable of providing health
service workers to meet the needs of the country. It has proven of great benefit to bring together in one
institution related basic and post basic training courses, with both tutors and students sharing resources
and interacting in a cost-efficient way. Since the transfer of the nursing school to it in May 1991, NHTC
has been offering courses for pharmacy technicians, medical laboratory technicians and assistants,
envirommental health assistants, general nurses, midwives, ophthalmic nurses, psychiatric nurses and
nurse clinicians. In early 1993, it also introduced a public health nursing course. The average number
of students at NHTC is presently around 100 which, together with the output of PHAL schools, should
be sufficient to meet the needs of the country. However, the exodus of large numbers of nurses to
Republic of South Africa in recent years has created shortages.
1.47         For some components, it has proved very difficult to confirm the extent to which training
to be provided under the project has been utilized (see Annex 1), since most of it was to be provided by
co-financing partners and, in some cases, documentation is no longer available. Training to be provided
for NHTC staff was reconsidered after project commencement, and it was decided to utilize available
Irish funds to upgrade systematically the qualification of tutors through masters level training abroad,
rather than undertake the short-term training of specified cadres as initially envisaged. Only part of the
funds were used under HPP, however, because of Government delays in appointing coordinators and
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - ----



13
tutors to the NHTC establishment. Under the project three NHTC staff received graduate training abroad
(in public health, educational administration, and advanced nursing) and 41 full- and part-time staff
attended a month-long course in curriculum development offered in-country. All but one of the NHTC
staff who received training under the project are still working with either NHTC or with the MOH.
G. Project Sustainability
1.48         Lesotho is likely to derive long-term benefits in the health and social sectors from the
project as a result of its success in strengthening primary health care and family planning services in the
country. Also, the strengthening of management, supervisory and teaching capabilities of MOH staff will
create benefits that will be sustainable in the long term, provided the MOH remains attractive for highly-
trained Basotho. The institution-building at NHTC will continue to give an output of Basotho health
personnel from basic and post basic courses and will, for the foreseeable future, be able to fill Lesotho's
needs for training of these cadres.
1.49         Considering Lesotho's weak financial base and the heavy demand which health services
place on the recurrent budget, further productivity improvements in service provision and increased cost
recovery will be required if Lesotho is to continue to provide good quality health care. Even with such
improvements, Lesotho is also likely to require continued assistance from outside donors for both capital
and recurrent costs if it is to sustain health services at the present or improved levels. Because well-
trained Basotho are proving attractive to employers elsewhere in southern Africa, it will become
increasingly important that Government's personnel policies are conducive to the retention of qualified
staff.
1.50         A key objective of the technical assistance and training provided for under the project was
to build up the permanent capacity within the MOH so that Basotho could be fully capable of taking over
key positions. This has been only partially realized because of the difficulty the MOH has had in
retaining staff. The counterpart to the NHTC director advisor has successfully assumed the reins of that
institution. The counterpart to the TB control program adviser left Government service before she could
do so. Until a suitably qualified national can be found to head the program, its sustainability remains in
doubt. The counterpart to the financial adviser was able to work with him for several years prior to his
departure and she, and the Ministry, profitted significantly from that exposure. It appears that the
decentralized financial management is sufficiently institutionalized to be sustained. Because the technical
assistance in manpower development, health education and pharmaceutical logistics was not utilized under
the project, the expected capacity building in these three areas did not take place.
1.51         An important factor which will influence the sustainability of the project is the very weak
capacity of MOH and, indeed, the Government at large to maintain its buildings and equipment.
Responsibilities for maintenance between MOH and MOW are not clearly understood and budgeting
procedures are inadequate to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated for this purpose.  Recent
donor-funded upgrading and extension of rural clinics, district hospitals and QEII hospital and indeed the
construction of NHTC has greatly increased the financial and technical dimension of this problem. Health
facilities constructed by the Ministries of Health and Interior, without the involvement of MOW (i.e.,
upgraded district hospitals and rural clinics) are not eligible for MOW maintenance under current
procedures. After completion of the rural clinic improvement program, the maintenance of all rural
clinics was assigned to a maintenance tearn funded by a Danish Non-governmental organization for four
years, and supervised by PHAL, which is supposed to maintain 60 clinics per year. Last year the team
was only able to maintain 18 clinics. With the increased sophistication and complexity of medical



14
equipment and the hospital buildings, a dramatic increase in budgetary allocations for maintenance and
a considerable strengthening of the maintenance department with suitably qualified personnel is essential.
H. Bank Performnance
1.52         The Health and Population Project marks the beginning of the World Bank's involvement
in assistance to Lesotho's health and population sectors. Both the Bank and the MOH have greatly
increased their knowledge of how the other institution functions, their relative strengths and weaknesses,
and constraints which they face in attempting to facilitate implementation of a development project of this
kind in order to achieve mutually agreed objectives. Undoubtedly, both have learned many lessons in
implementing the Health and Population Project which are hopefully being applied in the ongoing follow-
up project (PHN II). While the project has assuredly had a positive overall impact on the economic
development of the country, and particularly on the delivery of health services to the population,
implementation was not always smooth and all objectives were not achieved in full. In retrospect, it is
clear that there were a number of things the Bank might have done differently, which could have led to
an even better outcome.
1.53         Preparation of the project was inadequate. While the Borrower is responsible for project
preparation, the Bank should have taken into consideration, more than it apparently did, the fact that this
was the first project the MOH was preparing for World Bank financing and the HPSU did not have
sufficient experience to prepare it in the detail required to ensure smooth implementation. The Bank
should have insisted upon more detailed designs for the civil works to be undertaken as a basis for
estimating project costs prior to appraisal, so that adjustments would not have to be made in designs after
the fact, delaying implementation. Preparation of the filter clinics was particularly faulty, it apparently
not being clear to any of the parties involved the exact role the clinics would be expected to play, how
they would function, and the impact they would likely have on other facilities in the area. The Bank
could, perhaps, have been more helpful in helping the Borrower to conceptualize and define the exact
nature and scope of the filter clinic concept, sharing the experience of other countries in establishing filter
clinics and the design and staffing implications involved.
1.54         Although the total resources allocated to supervision by the Bank throughout
implementation appears to have been adequate, the long hiatus between missions in the second year of
project implementation (8/86 - 1/88) must surely have had a cost in keeping things on track.
Disbursements lagged during this period and, according to Bank records, there was also little
correspondence between the PCU and the Bank during this period. The latter could, however, be due
to faulty filing procedures in the Bank, as the supervision report for the August 1986 mission had never
been filed with the Africa Information Center. Although the Bank expressed determination not to let its
reorganization of 1987 effect adversely ongoing operations, one suspects that the failure to mount a
supervision mission in 1987 was somehow linked to the disruptions emanating from that reorganization.
To its credit, great efforts were taken by IDA to ensure a smooth handing over from the old project
management team to the new one, with the former task manager involved for at least six months
following the reorganization and overlap in the field between the old and new teams.
1.55         On the positive side, relations between the Bank and the Borrower appear to have been
smooth throughout, and the Government appears to have welcomed the Bank's technical advice and
constructive attitude in dealing with problems as they arose. However, continuity was a problem. There
were four changes in task management within the Bank over the 10-1/2 years between project
identification and completion, and numerous changes in the composition of supervision teamns.



15
I. Borrower Performance
1.56         Given that this was the first IDA-supported project in Lesotho's health sector, the
problems encountered and delays experienced were perhaps neither surprising nor unusual. But since it
is the country which finally bears the costs of these delays, it behooves the Borrower to take a critical
look at factors which impeded smooth implementation.
1.57         The Borrower's compliance with legal covenants is detailed in Part m, Table 9. In
general, Borrower followed through on commitments, although target dates were rarely met, in a few
instances due to circumstances beyond the Borrower's control (eg., revision of national drug list and
completion of health financing study). The most serious lapses concerned (a) delay in funding the Imprest
Account; (b) inadequate reporting and record-keeping, and failure to maintain and audit statements of
expenditures adequately; (c) delayed utilization of filter clinics following construction; (d) failure to
submit detailed work program and staffing schedule for the health education unit; and (e) failure to follow
up on personnel review and job classification study.
1.58         Due to the Government's delay in depositing the initial M 50,000 in the Imprest Account,
commencement of the IDA-funded portion of the rural clinic upgrading was delayed by at least a year.
Given inflation, this delay undoubtedly contributed to the higher costs experienced by this component.
1.59         While acknowledging that the general inadequacy of project preparation can be laid to
the Bank's failure to assess correctly the capacity of MOH and MOW, it would appear that the HPSU
did not give adequate attention to some basic principles in preparing the filter clinic component, which
should have been within its capacity. First, the MOW architects were not adequately briefed about
minimum design requirements; second, the Lands Department was not adequately briefed concerning the
need for sites convenient to urban communities and the location of other clinics in the vicinity; and, three,
plans to ensure adequate staffing in a timely manner were not formulated. The MOH has acknowledged
the weaknesses of the HPSU and, with WHO assistance, has drawn up a program for strengthening the
unit. Part of the funds for this are available under PHN II.
1.60         MOHs performance during the early stages of the project was clearly affected by the lack
of an experienced person as deputy project coordinator, the person who had responsibility for dayoday
monitoring of activities. Despite external training early in the project and efforts by each supervision
mission to assist the PCU in utilizing project monitoring systems for tracking activities as well as
expenditures, there was little practical follow-up. The shift of the PCU to be directly responsible to the
Prinicipal Secretary - Health did help matters, but regular meetings of the Project Advisory Committee,
as recommended by IDA, were not held and a more skilled project manager was only named in late 1990.
As these issues were regularly highlighted in mission Aide Memoires, it must be concluded that the MOH
did not give them the attention they warranted. The costs to the country are not insignificant. For
example, the failure to keep accurate track of project costs meant that some desired activities were not
funded due to cost overruns, but, at project closing, about half a million dollars of credit fimds had to
be cancelled. More serious, however, is the fact that several project objectives were not met either
because anticipated activities never took place, or the Government failed to follow-up as required.
1.61         The uncertain political environment throughout most of the project period is thought to
have been a factor in the Borrower's lack of attention to project requirements and to the frequent changes
in personnel at all levels which effected understanding of and commitment to the project.



16
J. Technical Assistance and Consultiny Services
1.62         An overview of the use of technical assistance is shown in Annex II. In sum, 281 man-
months of consultant time were used as compared to about 217 man-months planned at appraisal. The
extra input was utilized for computer programming, financial management, radio operation and
maintenance, NHTC and the TB programn, when extensions to the technical assistance contracts were
considered necessary to solidify transfer of skills to nationals. The use of long-term consultants for
capacity building appears to have met expectation in those instances where it was utilized. In addition
to this technical assistance, WAHU utilized external consultants from time to time to supplement its
design and supervisory capacity, and they performed adequately.
K. Project Documentation and Data
1.63         As stated above, very poor records were kept in the early years of this project by the
PCU. Given the changes in personnel that have occurred within the MOH, it has proved extremely
difficult to piece together all of the events (and non-events) which make up the project history. It has,
to some extent, been possible to supplement in-country data by sifting through documents available in the
Bank's files, but - there too - incomplete records and changes in personnel have complicated the process.
Consequently, in some areas there is insufficient institutional memory about the project. Inadequate
project monitoring is particularly evident insofar as essential project data concerning project investments,
local and foreign exchange content and funding provided by cofinanciers are not readily available.
L. Lemons.lfted
1.64         For future projects, the following lessons learned from implementation of the Health and
Population Project may be of value:
a)     A much debated question in the Bank (and probably by Borrowers) is whether it is better
to have a project implementation unit outside the formal Government structure to oversee
project activities, or to utilize the existing Government structure and accept that the
project will face many of the constraints which generally impede project implementation
in large bureaucracies. The project opted for the latter solution in order to build
.ownership' within the Ministry of Health, attempting to ease bureaucratic constraints
by establishing a small PCU and appointing a full-time (deputy) project coordinator to
prod the project's component managers (principally department heads within the MOH),
and to satisfy the Bank's requirements with regard to procurement, disbursements,
record-keeping, and report writing. Experience under this project suggests that this can
only work as envisaged if the following also happens: (i) staff who will be responsible
for project implementation are involved from the beginning in project conceptualization
and the identification of specific activities and investments to be undertaken; (ii) a
workshop is held with the project's component managers immediately after credit
effectiveness to "launch' implementation, at which the Bank's (and other donors')
requirements and procedures are explained, the project's content is discussed in detail,
and the specific responsibilities of each of the actors are clarified; (iii) the person selected
as project coordinator should have sufficient experience and respect to be able to
communicate effectively with component managers and the skill required to meet the
Bank's requirements as stipulated in its legal agreement with the Borrower; and (iv) Bank
staff remain conscious of the fact that the project "belongs" to the Borrower.



17
b)     The experience with the filter clinics suggests that the Bank should be particularly
scrupulous when introducing a concept that is new to a country to ensure that the concept
is well understood, and that all of the ramifications are carefully analyzed jointly with the
Borrower. As the Bank's experience with filter clinics in Africa was quite limited at the
time of project preparation, it may even have been preferable to move forward very
cautiously with this component, building one on a pilot basis and evaluating that
experience before proceeding with others. To some extent this happened under the
project insofar as the the Maputsoe filter clinic was concerned in that, by the time it was
added to the project, the MOH and the MOW had learned numerous lessons from the
weaknesses of the completed clinics and applied them to that undertaking. These lessons
included: (i) Site acquisition in urban areas can be extremely difficult and time-
consuming, with negative impact on project costs. For this reason, site acquisition
should be completed prior to credit negotiations. (ii) A filter clinic can mean many
things to many people, so that there must be agreement among the various users as to
what functions a particular filter clinic will fill. This means that staff from the effected
urban hospital as well as those in charge of programs to be implemented in it must be
consulted at both the conceptualization and design stage. (iii) The staffing requirements
for a filter clinic must be assured before moving forward with such an investment. If
operation of the filter clinic will necessitate transfer of staff from the hospital, as is the
case in Lesotho, then the details of staffing the clinic must be agreed in advance with the
effected hospital.
c)     Especially in countries where experience is limited in civil works construction or where
the facilities to be built have specialized design requirements, detailed designs should be
completed before finalizing the financing plan. This means requiring such designs prior
to credit negotiations.
d)     Prior to undertaking an extensive program  for upgrading or expanding facilities,
especially in countries with severe resource constraints, detailed analysis of the recurrent
cost implications of project investments in terms of both operation and maintenance and
incremental staff requirements should be done, and agreements reached with Government
that this level of financing will be forthcoming. This should go beyond the "boilerplate"
agreement currently included in legal documents, and shoul i include a plan indicating the
source of any needed incremental resources. In other words, they should be incorporated
(in some detail) into the public expenditure review that underpins the IMF/Bank
economic dialogue with Government and any balance of payment support.
e)     Technical assistance by an experienced individual can play a valuable role in building
capacity within a country to improve the quality of services being provided. But too
often this laudable objective is not achieved, either because a suitable courterpart is not
available to work with the advisor (or, as has happened frequently in the case of Lesotho,
that counterpart leaves the subject post before the expected benefit is realized); the
advisor does not have the training/coaching skills to pass on his or her expertise to the
counterpart; or the counterpart is not receptive to the advice being given, either because
of resentment, or ego, or other concerns. This project appears to have been more
successful than many in that the technical assistance utilized seems to have resulted in
increased capacity (for TB control, for radio operation, for school administration, for
financial planning) within the health sector. Nevertheless, it also experienced some of



18
the above weaknesses, with the possible exception that no advisor who was utilized under
this project seems to have lacked the appropriate skills. One suspects that the failure to
utilze some of the technical assistance offered was due to a lack of conviction on the part
of specific counterparts that the assistance would be useful, due - perhaps - to previous
disappointing experiences. The lesson to be drawn from this eAperience is that the
Borrower and its donors should consider carefully the factors which contribute to
successful use of technical assistance, and ensure that those factors are being met before
choosing this path.
f)     Large procurements tend to demand and receive considerable attention from project
managers, often diverting attention from capacity-building elements, including measures
required to improve management objectives. Also, strengthening of management cannot
be accomplished at the staff level, however competent they may be, but requires the close
commitment and attention of top managers. It may be that for projects with important
capacity building objectives, 'hardware" elements should be kept to a minimum so that
they do not absorb all the time and energy of busy managers. Certainly, first operations
in any sector should be kept as simple and straightforward as possible, so as not to
overwhelm fledging institutions.
g)     Arrangements should be made to ensure that the PCU is provided regularly with
information concerning activities and expenditures undertaken by the Bank's cofinancing
partners.



19
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
2.1          The project was initially identified as a small technical assistance project and was later
expanded to include civil works. This increased scope necessitated thorough preparation from both the
Bank and the Borrower, but it is evident not enough preparation was done. For example, in the area of
civil works, land was not acquired in a timely manner and designs not finalized and agreed upon during
appraisal and negotiation stages. This has contributed to cost overruns and delay in the implementation.
2.2          The Bank should have ensured a more thorough project preparation and commitment of
the Borrower, for example, by having land earmarked for project purpose acquired in advance of the
credit effectiveness.
2.3          The Bank through its technical staff have been viewed as very professional and supportive
to the Ministry of Health in every aspect of the Project, with well qualified and adequate number of
personnel during missions. However, during the first two years of the project the Bank failed to organize
regular missions. This contributed much to the delay in project start up and failure to hold a project
launching to inform prospective managers about their roles in the project, as well as scope and time of
it. That is, there was long time lapse of about 18 months without a supervision mission between 1986
and 1988.
2.4           Supervision missions would seem to have confined themselves to fact-finding exercises
and ignored larger issues of project implementation. For example, nothing was done to ensure that
management systems to capture project expenditures and the physical progress were developed by PCU,
a factor which resulted in a weak project management and lack of appropriate follow-up on project
activities.
2.5           Relations and communications frequency between the Bank and the Borrower has
continued to be strong in the latter days of the project and even more so in the Second Phase of the
Project - PHN 11.
2.6          The major lesson learned is that the project would have benefited a lot from a strong start
up foundation which would have entailed a project launching, strong PCU with management systems in
place and frequent and consistent missions, especially in the first two years of the project. Finally a well
established project documentation system to assist during staff changeovers for both the Bank and the
Borrowers.
B.    Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
2.7          The performance of the various project component managers within the Ministry of
Health varied a lot. Components under Institutional Development such as Financial Management and
Health Information progressed well and technical assistance was well utilized with desired skill transfer,
with complete decentralization achieved on Financial Management System at the end of the project. The
components which seem to have lagged behind are Manpower Development and Health Education Unit
which did not take full advantage of project resources to improve and/or strengthen themselves. This
unfortunate inactivity continues even in the second Phase of the project, i.e. PHN II. In this regard lack



20
of appreciation of the project on the part of component managers and laxity on the part of MOH senior
management to follow up with these components contributed to this apparent inactivity.
2.8           The MCH/FP and TB Control components also made marked progress and the country
stands to realize its objectives of reducing population growth and reducing incidence of TB respectively.
2.9           Detailed designs for the civil works component and supervision of all civil works except
that undertaken by RCIP were handled directly by Ministry of Works - through its WAHU - but no
proper brief was given to them to come up with appropriate designs to suit the purpose these facilities
were intended to serve during project preparation. That is, WAHU being only specialists in civil works,
Ministry of Health through Health Planning and Statistics Unit being beneficiaries of the infrastructure
should have been clear in their minds what facilities they wanted built and should have determined the
scope of services to be rendered by these facilities well in advance. Lack of planning has actually
resulted in filter clinics which appear to be a misnomer except Maputsoe Filter Clinic which was built
after very well thought out utilization plan for this facility.
2.10          NHTC civil works component, RCIP and Lesotho Dispensary AssociationlNDSO went
on smoothly except for delay in the start up. Quality of work is overall satisfactory.
2.11          High staff turnover has also been identified as a major problem  and this with a
combination of poor project file system has led to loss of institutional memory and thus little knowledge
of project around the Ministry of Health.
2.12          The BOS has been unable to complete the Health and Nutrition Survey exercise and this
has meant that no data is available for planning purposes.
2.13          Ministry of Finance has been supportive throughout the project in ensuring that
disbursements of funds are handled properly, but a bit of periodic accountability of use of funds was
warranted as an internal control measure. While Ministry of Planning and Development (CPDO) was
not very active throughout the project implementation, being the Ministry responsible for monitoring
development projects in the country, more involvement in terms of guidance, commitment and interest
could have benefited the Government in general and MOH in particular.
2.14          The PCU was very weak in the beginning, a factor which contributed to inadequate
documentation of project activities, lack of periodic reporting of status of funds and failure to submit audit
reports in time. Fortunately, this has been solved by both parties by creating a full fleshed PMU outside
the Ministry's regular establishment. The risk here only being the fate of the PMU staff at the end of
PHN II.
2.15          No regular Project Advisory Committee (PAC) meetings were held by the Borrower,
which resulted in slow implementation.
2.16          Lessons learned from Borrower's own Performance are, one, that the project would have
benefited more from a well prepared project, properly launched to sensitize all participating partners of
their critical roles for the success of the project. Two, more commitment by all parties was warranted
to ensure timely implementation of the project activities, and compliance by the Ministry of Health with
conditions of the project, to ease relations between the Bank and the Borrower. Finally, the Ministry



21
could have benefited from holding regular PAC meetings to monitor progress and take corrective
measures in a timely manner where there was marked slow or lack of progress.
C.  Evaluation of Co-financiers' performance and effectiveness of their relationship with the
Borrower duriny implementation
2.17          The performance and effectiveness of co-financiers has been overall good and most of
their commitments honored. Unfortunately communication was done outside the PCU and therefore there
is no clear record available on the funds granted and expended on project related activities.
2.18          Thle Major lesson learned is that a system should have been put in place to have all co-
financiers submit periodic financial reports on expenditures incurred on project related activities to the
PCU. This would have assisted the Ministry to appreciate to what extent co-financiers honored what they
had as a commitment, as well as estimating the impact of the project to the beneficiaries in terms of the
financial inputs as one consolidated project vis-a-vis numerous fragmented smaller projects within one
Ministry.



22
PART Ill. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Lending
Table I - Other Lending in Health Sector
Credit                                                      Year of
Title                 Purpose                               Approval       Status
Credit 2059-LSO       To slow pace of population           July 11,        Under imple-
2nd Population,       growth, strengthen health             1989           mentation.
Health and           system, reduce spread of TB                          Mid-term
Nutrition            and STDs, reduce malnutrition,                       review
Project              and strengthen health sector                         scheduled
plannin g, financial, personnel                     for 11/93.
and health information manage-
ment and manpower development
In addition, a water supply project and two urban development projects have included water
supply and/or sanitation components which have expanded the access of urban populations to potable
water and improved sanitation facilities. The Project Completion Reports for the completed Water
Supply Project and the Urban Development Project were issued, respectively, on November 5, 1987,
and October 30, 1990. The Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project is ongoing.



23
B. Proiect Timetable
Table 2 - Key Events, Planned versus Actual
Item                  Planned Datel/         Revised Date2/        Actual Date
Identification        May 1982                                     June 1982
Preparation           September 1982                               March 1983
2nd Preparation3/                                                  January 1984
Preappraisal                  -                                    June 1984
Appraisal             January 1983                                 Sept. 1984
Negotiations          April 1983                                   March 1985
Board Approval        July 1983                                    Apr.23,1985
Credit Effective                             Oct.22,1985           Oct.11,1985
Project Completion                           Dec.31,1989           Dec.31,1992
Closing Date                                 Dec.31,1990           Dec.31,1992
JI As set forth in Initiating Project Brief, dated April 16, 1982.
2/ As set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, dated July 24, 1985.
2/ Government requested revision/expansion of project scope in September 1983, necessitating further
preparation.
Comment on Timetable:
Project was orginally envisaged as a technical assistance credit, covering assistance to the
Ministry of Health to strengthen management systems (finance, personnel, information, etc.). But at
the Annual Meetings in September 1983, Government requested that project scope be expanded to
include investments in support of expansion of primary health care, including family planning, and
establishment of in-country training capacity. These changes necessitated further preparation, and
postponement of appraisal by 18 months.
Although implementation of several project components was delayed (see below), project
activities as defined at appraisal were completed within one year of original Project Completion Date;
i.e., by the original Project Closing Date of December 31, 1990. However, Government requested
IDA to allow savings resulting, in part, to the deletion of two filter clinics to be used to finance a filter
clinic included in the Second PHN Project, in order to ease somewhat the cost overruns then being
experienced under that follow-up project. This necessitated extending the Closing Date by two years.



24
C. Credit Disbursements
Table 3 - Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS '000)
IDA FY                        1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Appraisal Estimate             250    600    1200   2200   3400   3500
Actual                         349    571    1757   2473   2941   3106   3866   4206
Actual as % of Estimate       140%   95%    146%   112%   86%    89%   110%   120%
* Given in historical US dollar equivalents.
Comment on Disbursements:
The pattern of dollar disbursements is, in this case, a poor indicator of project performance.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between the Maloti/Rand and the dollar as well as between the dollar
and the SDR appear to have influenced the disbursement profile more than project performance. As
shown in the charts below, devaluation of the dollar vis-a-vis the SDR, in which the credit is
denominated, means that about SDR 562,000 had to be cancelled upon project completion. This is
particularly unfortunate since early in project implementation, elements were eliminated from the
project due to what appeared to be substantial cost increases and cost overruns.
Credit 1585-LSO                              Credit 1585-LSO
Cumul.tYm Dasburuemeant (US$ *quiv.)            cumulative Disbur.mmnta (SDR)
OL mislocilt i              allfl-p lSiU ii
l  "    I                                                - I a I G  I s  I I   11  I w  1   67 l  a I "  I .  I 0  I a  1
M F.WCMI                                         PJ       Cm Ak



25
D. Project Im2lementation
Table 4 - Planned and Actual ComDietion Dates of Civil Works Components
Planned               Actual                 Months
Comwoent              ComDletion             Completion            of Delay
Computer room                                09/86                 0
Rural clinics         08/88                  12/90                 28
Filter clinics        05/86                  12/881/               31
TB laboratory         05/86                  04/88                 23
LDA/NDSO              05/87                  02/88                 9
NHTC                  02/87                  02/89                 24
1/ Construction of the Maputsoe filter clinic, included in the project only in late 1990, was completed
in September 1992.
Comment on Proiect Imylementation:
Delays in the civil works were due primarily to the late starts of construction, attributable to a
variety of factors. Rural clinic construction was initially held up due to Government's delay in
depositing its contribution of M 50,000 in the Imprest Account (not done until August 1986). This had
been a condition of effectiveness, but the Bank accepted evidence that the Government had requested
the Bank of Lesotho to 'establish the account, rather than its having deposited money into that
account. Once started, construction of the 18 clinics took four years rather than the three yean
expected, which may be attributed to an underestimation of the logistical difficulties of working in the
mountains and a somewhat lower performance of the RCIP work brigades than expected. In the case
of both NHTC and NDSO, construction was delayed (by 13 months and 16 months, respectively) when
the building designs were completed to higher standards than provided for at appraisal. Redesign then
became necessary. Changes in personnel and absence of records make it difficult to establish exactly
why the filter clinics were begun only 30 months after originally expected, but unrealistic estimat  due
to lack of knowledge of local procedures, difficulty in site acquisition, design problems, weak project
management, and a hiatus in project supervision may all have been contributing factors. Once begun,
the three filter clinics (of the original five) were completed in a timely manner, the savings resulting
from dropping the other two eventually being used to construct the Maputsoe clinic, completed in
September 1992. Indeed, most civil works contracted out were completed in a timely manner once
begun, with the exception of those at NHTC, where additional delays were due to the decision to add a
second floor to the teaching block.



26
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
Table 5 - Proiect Costs (USS million)
--------Appraisal Estimate------      -----------------Actual-----------
Como-ent               Local    Foreign       Total          Local    Foreign       Total
MOH Org. & Mgmt        0.12      0.79         0.91            0.15      0.90         1.05
Health & FP            0.46      1.45          1.91           1.00      3.16         4.16
Drug Supply System     0.12      0.57         0.69            0.14      0.66         0.80
Manpower Development 0.57        1.62         2.19            0.55      1.55         2.10
Baseline              1.27      4.43         5.70            1.84     6.27          8.11
Physical contingencies    0.07   0.25         0.32
Price contingencies    0.39      1.01          1.40
Total Cost              1.73     5.69         7.42            1.84      6.27         8.11
Comment on Proiect Costs:
A number of countervailing factors contributed to changes in project costs during
implementation. Early in project execution, it was found that most of the civil works had been under
designed, implying cost increases both to accomodate design changes and the delay in execution which
these entailed. In some cases, civil works were scaled back to remain within the original estimate; for
example, only one of the five staff houses were built at NHTC and the access road was not
bitumenized. In other cases, the increased costs were accomodated, as in the case of NHTC which was
allowed to put a second story on the teaching block, originally conceived as a one-story building. On
the other hand, three factors led to underspending: the decision not to proceed with two of the five
filter clinics included in the original project, because it was found that other clinics were being
constructed nearby; the failure to utilize as much of the funding for training and technical assistance
available under the project, in part because grant financing was available; and the devaluation of the
Maloti vis-a-vis the dollar so that increases in local costs did not result in rapid draw-down of the
credit. When it became apparent in late 1990 that considerable surplus was likely in the credit account,
the Association agreed to utilize surplus funds to build an additional filter clinic, originally to be
included in the Second PHN Project, increasing expenditures against the health and family planning
component.



27
Table 6 - Proiect Financing
Source                          Planned        Actual
(USS million)  (USS million)
IDA                             3.50           4.21
Governmen'                      1.28           1.30
Irish bilateral asst.           1.12           0.77
EEC                             0.74           0.92
DANIDA                          0.37          0.58
WHO                             0.19          0.19
USAID                           0.07           0.07
UNDP                            0.07          0.07
Total                      7.42           8.11
Comment on Proiect Financine:
Planned cofinancing amounted to 31 % of total project cost. While the Association was
informed about agreements reached with each of the co-financing partners concerning their grants, and
visiting supervision missions kept in touch with donor representatives in the field, administration of the
co-financing grants was handled outside the PMU, which has no record of amounts actually disbursed.
The estimates given above are based on what is known about donor funded project activities
(summarized below) and fluctuations in the exchange rates between the dollar and the currencies of
other financiers over the project period.
According to the latest audit report, the Government of Lesotho contributed M 3,177,009 to
the Imprest and Advance Accounts over the project period, which is about 25 % more than ostimated at
appraisal. Assuming that these funds were disbursed at approximately the same rate as the IDA credit,
and given the average exchange rate (annually) between the maloti and the dollar, this is equivalent to
about $1.3 million, the dollar having strengthened against the maloti during the period. Total
expenditures under Irish bilateral assistance for the project from 1985 to 1988 (covering assistance to
NHTC and TB control) amounted to  525,587, compared to  791,000 budgeted. Most activities
financed by the Irish went forward as planned with some delay, except for long-term fellowships for
staff of NHTC, which were underutilized due to Government's failure to approve the expected number
of established teaching posts. This was somewhat offset by the fact that technical assistance to both
NHTC and the TB program was extended beyond initial plans. The pound strengthened against the
dollar during the project period. EEC-financed activities were completed in the first year of the
project, with the EEC contribution estimated at ECU 515,000 for rural clinic construction and ECU
340,000 for contraceptive procurement and IEC supplies. The PCU was apparently able to account for
only about half of the monies made available to it for contraceptives and IEC, and other financing had
to be identified for commodity support. The ECU strengthened against the dollar between 1984, when
project costs were estimated, and 1986, the year of expenditure. The DANIDA contribution is
estimated to have remained unchanged in kroner terms, the above estimate reflecting strengthening of
the kroner vis-a-vis the dollar during project implementation. While NDSO did not utilize DANIDA's
allocation for technical assistance for logistics support, it has been assumed that roughly this same
amount was used to finance the services of the technical assistance provided to the rural clinic
improvement program, not costed at the appraisal stage. Contributions of WHO, USAID and UNDP
are assumed to have remained unchanged from appraisal estimates, in the absence of detailed
information to the contrary. WHO and USAID financing was used primarily for training and technical
assistance. The UNDP contribution financed the services of the computer programmer for two years,
after which they were financed from the IDA credit.
In view of the significant contribution of cofinanciers to the project, closer liaison with the
PCU would have been desirable.



28
Table 7 - Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(US$ million)
haa                                  Oriinal Allocatio             Actual Disbursement
1.     Civil Works
(a) by contract                1,287,000                     2,404,338
(b) by force account            331,000                       353,950
2.     Vehicles, equipment,
furiture and spare parts          284,000                       638,186
3.     Supplies and raw
naterials for LDA                 123,000                        14,848
4.     Population activities,
trining and surveys               142,000                        99,761
S.     Consultants' services             615,000                       638,339
6.     Special Account                   246,000                        56,195
7.     Unallocated                       473,000
TOTAL                    3,500,000                     4,205,537
Cancelled                                                       790,236
Comment on Allocation of Credit Proceeds:
The overspending on civil works by contract comes about as a result of the decision to fund
the Maputsoe filter clinic (originally in PHN II) from this credit, the design of which is to a much
higher standard than that applied to the filter clinics included in the original project. Equipment for the
clinic wa also funded under the credit, explaining the overrun in Category 2. The Irish Goverment
funded the costs of raw materials for TB drugs, and some of the other costs of raw materials for LDA
wwo inadvertently charged to PHN H (Cr. 2059-LSO). Government chose not to use credit funds for
many of the training actitivies included in the project and, to some extent, for other population
activities, because of grant funds whicb became available from UNFPA for this purpose. The failure
to utilize funds allocated for some of the technical assistance was offset by the decision to extend the
services of the fionacial adviser and the computer programmer.



29
F. Project Results
Table 8 - Direct Benefits of the Project
Expectation                                Sination                          Expected Benefit
hicaetorr                    at Ai oiial                              at Closinjg Date                   at Full Dgveloonent
1. S9 r _gtmiug of MOB's Organizatim and Managast
1.1             Personnel review and job c.sai6cdtion study   Study completed by end December 1987.   Positive dsveloprental inpact
Rationalization   to be completed by December 31, 19S6.     MOH adopted (on paper) new               will only b felt onwe
of MOH                                                      organizational tructure in mid-1933, but   MOH/Government has foLowed
staffing                                                    assessment of staffing needs and         up on tudy recommendations.
tructure.                                                   reclasification and regrading of posts as
requircd to implenent new organiztion
has not been done.
1.2             Provision of the ervices of a manpower      Consultant never engaged.                Health manpower development
Development    plning consultant to revise, jointly with                                             plans remain a critical need.
of a Health     HPSU, PHAL and LPPA the nanpower
Manpower        plan for health providers, and to assist
Development    HPSU and NHTC in designing training
Plan            plans linked with manpower requirements.
1.3             With assisunce of HIS specialist, new HIS   Improved FP reporting forms and system    While some inprovemsnta in the
Strengthening    to be designed, including design of new dats  integrting financial with health service  MOH's bhelth information system
of health       and patient input fornu (by end 1936),      data introduced with assistance from     are evident, further improvements
information     introduction of system for analyzing cost of    USAID-financed consultant and        neesary in order for meaningul
system.         health service delivery at facility level,  computer programmer. HIS consultant      data to be available for policy
design and production of user manuals,      not employed, given USAM-fanced         analysis and decision-making in a
tmining of staff, and introduction of       assiuance.                              timely nd reliable manr.
monthly reports for providing feedback to
providers.
Provision of comnputer equipment and        Improved computing facilitiee in place.
softwre, including provision of computer    Services of conputer progrnmmer
programmer for two years to auist in       extended (and being continued under
training of HPSU saff.                      PHN 11) until suitably qualified
counterpart is available.
Undertaking of national health survey, for  National Health and Nutrition Survey
completion by end 1987, including provision   undertaken in 1983 and 1989. Project
of survey specialist for two, 2-month      provided additional conmputers to asist
periods to assist in survey design and      in analysis, with specialist services
analysis,                                   provided to Bureau of Statistices by
Swedish aid. Considerable problems
were encountered inputting data, and
results of first round were available only
in late 1991. Final report still awaited.
1.4             Writh asistance of financial adviser,       Decentrlized budget sysem in place,      Imortant stdes ma  on
Establishment    continued development of budgeting,        allowing budget estimates to be more     financial (but not manpower) side,
of decentra.-   accounting and reporting sytems on          responsive to needs identified at both   but full development impact will
ized finncial    expenditures by facility and ervice and on  local and central level. Improved       require more systematic analysis
management      manpower utilization to enable MOH, by      monitoring and control procedures         nd use of date by MOH policy
project completion, to analyze reative cost    developed and being introduced. Little  makers.
and efficiency of it progrmnu and facilities.   proges on mnnpower utilization.
1.5             Completion, by end 1986, of two-way rdio   Instllation conpleted in 1989. Systm      Existance of reliable
Improvement    network linking all major health facilities,  is well-operated, managed and           conmnunication, espcilly with
of communica-   by providing 16 additional rdio set and     maintained,                              remow  mountain clinics, bas
tions with      related equipment nd the services of                                                 getly improved quality of car,
rural health    specialist services for installation and                                             adequacy of drug eupply, and
facilities,     training in radio use and maintenance.                                               service provider morale.
Provision of 4-wheel drive vehicles for    Vehicles in place since 19S7.
supervision in government-supervised
HSAs.



30
2. StRrg&uf   of HKs& ad Family Mlanaig Ser,l
2.1             Upgraduig of 13S rur clinics to MOH        Works wore completed by December         Upgrading of theme facilities has
Iwrovemet    health coersfandars through reovation          1990. Some equipment sti r quited;      allowed MOH to provide ful
of population's   or conatruction, and provision of equipment.   will be purchased under PHN H.     range of PHC services to
acceos to                                                                                           catchmnnt populatiou, galy
hbIth services                                                                                      enhancing the quality of care
available, esecially in remote
areas.
Costruetion nd equipping of five filter    Clinic construcLion completed by 1998.  Expected benefits from this
clinics in peri-urban areas of Maseru (3),  However, due to jurisdictional         component will not materialize
Leribe (I) and Mafeteng (1).               difficulties, one clinic has never opened,   until MOH is able to ort out
while others are not f4nctionniag to full   jurisdictional problems with
capacity because of staffing shortges.  Military (RIDF), and attract
adequate Maffl
2.2              Provision of overneas training for selcted  FP planning over the project period    While trainig provided to date
Strengthebning    staff in FP management, laparoecopic      (financed by both IDA and UNFPA) has   has exposed many health ervice
of family       serilizations and FP IC. Provision of       included over 300 nurse-midwives in FP    providens to FP concepts and
pbnnin          local training for all nurse clinicias and  motivation and delivery; 36 trainer in  techniques, considemrble
ervice           enior nurses in FP aotiveaion and delivery,   FP teachinrg "ila and upervision; 25  strengthning of botb content and
delivery within  including IUD insertion. On-tbe-job        HSA doctors and PHNs in FP              effectivenes of training is til
inmroved        training of about 625 VHWs in FP            managpmnt, IS nurs-c linician in FP     required to bring skill levels to
MCH  ervices,  education and ervices, and reated child     supervision, 12 district staff in FP     desirable level. Shortaes and
asuh that CPR    heth masures (breast-feeding, ORS,        logistic management, and 1055 CHWc,    stockouts of contriceptives which
increas by at   growth monitoring, etc.).                   1730 VHWs, and 300 TBAs in FP           continue to be experienced due to
leat 10%                                                    inotivation,                            weak logistic magemrenit
p...; i.e., to                                                                                     threaten viability of FP progrm.
about 12% by    Provision of contraceptives throughout      Contraceptives were upplied throughout   Despite problems, FP program
1939.           project period, including two IUD insertion    project period, but due to weakneses in    has made trendous strides and,
kit per clinic,                            logistic management, shortages were     by 1939, CPR was cstimated to
experienced from time to time.          have reached 17%.
Improvement in Nd standardization of       Improved forms for FP were developed
record keeping for family planning,        with TA provided by USAID.
Rationalization of charges for family      Uniform charrps for FP introdue d in
planing.                                   1933.
2.3             Provision of an IEC mrAngemant specialist    IEC mmangement specialist never        While HEU now has the
Strengthening    for six weeks to assist HEU to draw up     engaged.                                equipment to produce a wide
of Health       detailed work progrm and sutffing schedult                                         range of IEC materials, it's
Education       by end 1935.                                                                        capacity remins quite limited,
Unit's capacity                                                                                     both in conceptulizing IEC
to design and   Proviion of an IEC  peciaList for two       Long-term [EC specist provided by       strtegis and in delivering IC
implemetnt      months each year to assist HEU in           USAID misted in developmant of          miaterilst in a timely manner.
wl-targted      preparation of coapeaign and materials and    maiterials Nad training of staff.     FuU benefit from invetment
IEC programe    to provide onhe-job trfining for HEU stff.                                          made wWU only be ralized if
in FP,                                                                                              HEU'h management capacity
bremstfedin     Provision of extrnail trining for NEU staff   Some trining undertaken.              strengthened.
and weaning     in radio production pbotography, graphic
practices ad    art and audio-visual maintinsce.
TB/STD/
leproy.         Procurement of equipment to give HEU        Equipment procured.
capacity by project completion to prepae
campaign mterials and rdio programs in-
house.



31
2.3 (coot.)      Sub-contracting of Lesotho Ditnce           LDTC engaged, but due to internal
Teaching Center (LDTC) to develop, pm-      problems, had only hli61d paft of its
test, and produce special camnpaigns, print  contnct by project completion, including
materials nd r dio prognrnu in the areas of   mome panphlets, posters and radio spots.
FP, beastfeeding and weaning and
TBISTD/leprosy.
2.4             Provision of funds to the Central Statistical  Excer for everal seminars held to     National Population Policy is still
Underaking of   Bureau for development of a National        develop a National Population Policy, no    being formulated.
innovative      Population Policy and to the MCH/FP unit    innovative population activities were
population      of MOH in upport of activities designed to    undenaken under the project.
activities,     incrase awareness of population issues.
2.5              Provision of a microbiologist for thre      Study undertaken, and drug treatment    Impressive progress has been
Esutblishment    months to study the sensitivity of TB stins   regires developed,                    nade in establishing an effective
of a National    to various drug treatmnents.                                                        TB control progrim in the
TB Control                                                                                           country. As a result of project,
Program.        Construction of TB  creening facilities,    Due to increased screening of Basotho    innoculation against TB has been
including laboratory equipment, at three   miners in South Africa, decision taken to   incorporatd in EPI, TB treatment
district hospitals (Leribe, Mafeteng and    trengthen centml laboratory at QE F1    protocols have been developed
Quthing). Training of laboratory technician,   hospital rather than establish three small   and are in us in all health
facilities throughout country. Central  facilities, care of TB patients has
laboratory functioning well,            improved and datu colection
eirengthened. Purther
tenthening continues under
Provision of a TB specialist for two yeara to   TB specialist, provided by Irend,   PHN D. Until a suitably qualified
wisit the program head to initiate a       extended throughout project (and         national cam be found to head the
comprehensive screening and surveillance    continuing under PHN F) because of      program, however, its
progrm. Training of nurses in               difficulty Govemrnent has had in        sutainability remains in doubt.
identification, treatment and follow up of TB   identifying and retaining suitable
caes,                                       counterpart to head program.
Provision of TB drug requirenents for first    Sufficient TB drugs available in a tirely
two years of project, and the provision of  manner to meet program requirement.
raw maiterials for in-country manufacture of
TB drugs therefter.
3. Strugtmoing of Pharmc cal Supply Systiu.
3.1             Provision and installation of capsule-filling,    New equipment installed and        Quality control at LPC has been
Lmroving the    ORS atchet filling and quality control      operational.                             greatly enhanced. If LPC is able
quality of drug   equipment at the Lesotho Dispensary                                                to survive curmnt fnancianl crisis,
manufacturing    Asociation's (now the Lesotho                                                       chances of long-term benefits
Pharmaceutical Corporation-LPC) plant at                                            being ralized are good.
Mafeteng.
3.2             Construction or renovation of storage, office   Envibtged renovations conpleted since  The efficiency of NDSO's supply
Stremalining    and housing facilities of the National Drug  February 1988.                          and distribution of drgS has
and improving    Stockpile Organization (now the National                                            inproved, though some
cost-effective-    Drug Supply Organization-NDSO), and the                                           sngthnig till r quied.
ness of drug    procurement of handling equipment.                                                   Revision of the national drug
upply and                                                                                            formuLary has rsultd in more
distribution.   Provision of a logistics specialist to improve    Logisties specialist not enged.    efficient procurement of
NDSO's procurement, disribution,                                                    pharmaceuticals and facilitated
inventory control and mantagement                                                   mor rtional prescribing.
procedures. Training of pharmacy
technicians at district and HSA level.
Revision of the national drug list in       Revision of national drug formulary
accordance with WHO guidelines, by          completed in 1990, and curmntly in full
December 1985.                              use.



32
4. Sbi_p_m h-estry cajpuly to ra  heat  aevki  providen.
4.1             Construction of thee classrooms, a        Although construction was completed    Lesotho now has a wall-
Esabli;smet    conferenee room and a librry, five         only in February 1939, some claus      uactioning heal th ining ceer,
of a Natioal    labocatories, a workshop and              have been offered since 1988. The      capable of satisfying most of its
He              fogeiprepation facility, an               school was officially opened in       training nDeds for hea  care
Trining         adainigtioa bloik, tadent dornitory and    November 1989.                        providers (except mkedical
CerAer.         saff bousing, including necessary furnishing                                     officers). It remains coanrinad,
and equipment, mch that operations might                                        however, du to the shortage of
begin by the end of 1937.                                                        full-ime tuton. Alo, u
realization of the benefits from
Provision of a health training specialist to  Adviser (provided by Irehland) in-country   this insLitution wil only be
serve a Director until a counterpart can  from mid-1986 to early 1990. After    realized in conjunction with
identified (by 1937), thereafter to serve  training abroad, Mosotho courAtrpart  adequate atyower development
advisor,                                 took over as Director on April 1, 19S9.    planning for the health mor.
Salary support for 22 professional and    By project comnpletion, NHTC had been
mpport naff during the first two yers of  able to enploy only bout 60% of
NH1TC operatio.                           required aaff, due to constrain
imposed on the establishment by the
Structunr Adjustment Program.
Upgrding the sils of faculty through the  About 77 moabth of internal nd extermal
provision of 9S months of external training,   tnrining provided to NHTC staff, but
seven fellowship abroad could not be
utilized because of the delay in
appointing tutorial aff.
Comment on Proiect Results:
As ia true of many projects with multiple objectives, project results have been mixed, with some clear
succees (NHTC, TB control), some disappointments (health mrnpower, HIS and health education
mtu  gtheing), and some promising starts (FP, drug supply and distribution, decentralized financial
management). The ultimat development impact of the project will depend on the extent to which the
Goverment and its development assistance partners lean from the experience, and build on lessons learned in
its future development efforts.



33
C. Status of LeQal Covenants
Table 9 - Compliance with Legal Covenants
Section of DCA                           Covenant                                     Status of Complirnce
Section 3.01 (a)    Borrower to carry out the project in conformity with    GeneraUy in compliance.
appropriate appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and pubUc health practices, and to provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required.
Section 3.01 (b)    Borrower to appoint the Director of HPSU within MOH     GenerUy in compliance, although project
as Project Coordinator, to be assisted by a Deputy Project   accountant only appointed in [late 19861.
Coordinator and a Project Accountant, and to establish
and fund appropriate staff positions required for project
irnplementation.
Section 3.02        Borrower to open and maintain Project Advance Account    Genemlly in compliance, although balance
to cover its share of costs, with minirnum balance at aU  sometimes fell below M 50,000.
times of M 50,000.
Section 3.03        Borrower to open and maintain Imprest Account for       Although account opened prior to credit
renovation of rural clinics, with minimum balance at aU  effectiveness, first M 50,000 deposited only in
time of M 50,000.                                       August 1986. Thereafter, balance sometimes
fell below M 50,000.
Section 3.04        Borrower to procure goods, works and services in        In compliance.
accordance with Schedule 3 of DCA.
Section 3.05        Borrower to submit special population activities to IDA  No special population activities undertaken
for review and make satisfactory arrngements for       with credit funds.
monitoring and evaluation.
SctWn 3.06          By December 1985, MOH to revise national drug list, and   Revision, completed in mid-1989, has forned
procure drugs on that basis from FY 86/87 onwards,     basis for drug procurement since FY 90/91.
Section 3.07        By July 1, 1986, revise curricula to include FP; and    Curriculum revised, but FP not yet adequately
introduce such revised curricula during the 1986/ 87   incorporated into either basic or post-basic
academic year for basic and post-basic training of     training curricula. Being followed up under
paramedical staff.                                      PHN 11.
Section 3.08        By March 31, 1988, carry out mid-term review of project   In compliance.
with IDA and co-financiers.
Section 4.01 (a)    Borrower to maintain adequate records and accounts.     The keeping of records and accounts has been
poor, particularly in early years of project.
Section 4.01 (b)    Borrower to have accounts audited and to send to IDA by   In compliance, except that audits were often
September 30 of each year.                             late.
Section 4.01 (c)    Borrower to maintain separate accounts for SOEs and to  SOE accounting incomplete and no separate
audit them sepamtely.                                   audit prepared.
Section 5.01        Borrower to operate, maintain, repair and renew facilities    Not in compliance. Two filter clinics not
and equipment provided under project.                  operational four years after completion of
construction. Maintenance arrangements are
geneally inadequate.
Section 5.02        By December 31, 1985, Borrower to submit to IDA a       Not in compliance
detailed work program and staffing schedule for HEU.
Section 5.03        By March 31, 1986, Borrower to submit plan of action to    Health Financing Study delayed, and
IDA for raising level of cost recovery within health   completed only in late 1987. New fea
services on basis of Health Financing Study.            introduced in January 198. Cost recovery
increased from 5.7% (FY84) to 10.4%
(FY89).



34
Secion 5.04        By July 1, 1986, Borrower to submit to IDA plan of    Plan of action submitted with three month
action for rationalizing charge structure for family  delay. Uniform fee structure for FP
planning ervices,                                    introduced in September 1987.
Section 5.05       By December 31, 1986, Borrower to submit to IDA       Study completed by consulants only in lae
alysis nd recommendation of the personnel review and    1987, but Borrower never completed its
job classification study.                             assessment of MOH saffing needs and
required reclassiricatiois and regrading of
pOstS.
Comment on Com2liance with Lepl Covenants
Borrower's failure to meet agreed to tagets stipulated in Development Credit Agreement would appear to
rflect unrealistic _anent on part of both IDA and Govemment as to the time needed to accomplish specific
activitie. Ths is perhaps not surprising, given that is was IDA's first lending in the health sector. In general, IDA
proved flexible in agreeing, informally, to postpone the deadlines stipulated, and in most cases the agreed actions
weon tak   by Govemment eventually.



35
H. Usw of Staff Resources
Table 10 - Staff In-Put by Stams of Project Cycle
(in staff-weeks)
Actual
Staen of Proiect Cycle                          [HO   Eid4
Through Appraisal                                68.7  39.0
Appnaisal through Board Approval                 74.0  4.0
Board Approval through Effectiveness             16.4    0
Supervision                                      47.5  45.7
Project Completion                                2.2   5.8
TOTAL                                          208.8 94.5
NHlt: It is not possible in the current MIS to reconstruct planned' or 'revised' manpower expenditure for yes
prior to 1989. From 1989 onward, such data is given, but without disinguishing between heasquartrs ad field.
From 1989 tirough 1992, IDA planned to utilize 35 sw on supervision (averge 8.75 p.a.) while acul utlizlion
was 27.3 sw (average 6.825 sw pa.). Six staff weeks were allocated in 1992 for prepartion of the projet
completion report.



36
Table 11 - Mission Data by Staees of Proiect
Mission            MonthNear    # of Persons               Staff-Weeks
Identification       6/82          4(Nut,FP,Mgt,Fin)        8.0
1st Preparation      3/83          I(Mgt)                   1.0
2nd Preparation       1/84         3(Phr,MCH,Arc)          6.0
Preappraisal         6/84          4(Phr,MCH,Arc,Ecn)    9.0
Appraisal            9/84          5(Phr,Ecn,FP,Arc,Fin)  15.0
39.0
Performance Status
O D L M A P T TA S E F
Spn I                5/85          2(Phr,PH)               4.0            1 1
Spn II                2/86         3(Phr,Arc,PH)            4.5    1 1   2 1
Spn III               8/86         3(Phr,Arc,MCH)          6.0    1 1   2 1
Disbursmt Msn        12/87         I(Disb)                  0.2    *
Spn IV                1/88         2(Phr,Arc)              4.0    1 1   2 1
Mid-term Rev.         1/88         5(Ecn,FP,Mgt,FP,Mpr)  5.0    *
Spn V                11/88         3(Ecn,Arc,PH)            3.0    2 2   2 1
Spn VI               5/89          2(Ecn,PH)               2.0    1 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1
Spn VII              10/89         2(Ecn,PH)                2.0    *
Spn VIII              2/90         4(Ecn,Ecn,Arc,Fin)       2.0    1 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1
Spn IX                7/90         2(PH,Arc)                1.0    I 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Spn X                11/90         3(Ecn,Arc,PH)            4.0    1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Spn XI                3/91         3(Ecn,PH,Leg)            3.0    1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Spn XII              10/91         3(Ecn,Arc,PH)            3.0    2 3 2 1 2 1 1 2 1 1 1
Spn XIII              3/92         2(Ecn,PH)                2.0    2 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1
Proj.Compl.          10/92         2(Arc,PH)                4.0    *
49.7
* No Form 590 prepared.
Key to S2ecializations:  Arc=architect, Disb=disbursement officer, Ecn=economnist, Fin= finance specialist,
FP=family planning specialist, MCH=mnaternal/child health specialist, Mgt=rnanagement specialist,
Mpr=fmanpower specialist, Nut=nutritionist, Leg=lawyer, PH=public health specialist, Phb rpharmaceutical
specialist.
Key to Performance Status: Prior to 1989, supervision reporting form had a limited set of indicators. The Form
590 introduced in 1989 used, for the first time, the full set of indicators shown under 'Performance Status', as
follows: O = Overall Status, D = Project Development Objectives, L = Compliance with Legal Covenants, M -Project
Management Performance, A=Availability of Funds, P=Procurement Progress, T=Training Progress,
TA-Technical Assistance Progress, S=Studies Progress, E=Environmental Aspects, F=Financial Performance



37
Commeot on Mission Data:
In retrospect, it would appear that the project would have profited from a mission soon after credit effectivew
to help launch project activities, especially in view of the fact that this was IDA's first operation in the health sector
of the country. The seven month gap between project effectiveness and the next visit by headquartas' staff (Spa
II) may explain, in part, why the project got off to such a slow start. However, both that mission and the one which
followed six months later left behind detailed instructions on what was required to keep the project on schedule,
including a detailed 'Project Implementation Volume.' More serious, however, is the long hiatus betwoen the third
and fourth supervision missions. Despite the Bank's determination not to allow its 1987 reorganization to disrupt
ongoing operations, one suspects that the failure to mount a supervision mission in 1987, resulting in a 17 month
hiatu between visits to the country at a crucial stage in project implementation, were somehow linked to the
disruptions emanating from the reorganization. To its credit, great efforts were taken by IDA to ensure a smooth
handing over from the old project task management team to the new one, with the former task manager involved
for at least six months following the reorganization and overlap in the field between the old and new teams.
Following the reorganization, the frequency of review missions increased to at least every six months, with the
amo task manager participating through 1989, by which time most project activities had been completed. Overall,
IDA resources devoted to project implementation (93.2 sw over six years, or 18.64 sw annually) would appear to
have boen adequate, especially since some savings could be expected once the Second PHN Project was under
implementation and joint project review missions were possible.



38
Annex I
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
TRAINING OUTPUT AS AT OCTOBER 1992
PROJECT COMPONENT                                SAR PLAN                                TRAINING OUTPUT                    REMARKS
No of           Come            Total is      By            B1i           As% of SAR
p6rm  to be   danias            Pelo          cmpoaet   compoamt   tota by ua
traied          pw SAR          weeh by       (No. of       (P. wedek)    compou_
(Waiks)    P    aIm           po            ()            (43/1 x 100)
compo_t   weeks) (2)
FOREIGN TRAINING
NHTC - Tr_m                                                             S88                         740               83   A total of
around 80
Counterpart for Director                     1              48                         48                                   pers.weeks
Facuhy members                              2               12                          12                                  of staff tr.has
Special Diacipl. training                  20               36                        N/A                                   been dons
Tr. MOs in Public Health                     8              12                           0                                  (1986-92)
ORG & MGT                                                                144                         48               33
Fuancial Trining                             1              24                         24
Health Sysems                                I              96                           0
Cornputer Programmer                         1              24                          24
HEALTH & F  SERVICES                                                    212                           48              23
FP Plnning & Mangepent                      4                6                           0
FP/lEC Laparascopic/Steril.                 2                4                           4
Radio production                             I              36                           0                                  HEU saff
Omphic art                                   I              36                          24                                  had around
Photogrphic art                              1              24                          0                                   336 pers.-
Audio-vial Mainterance                      2               24                          0                                   weeks of for.
TB Mangement                                 1              48                           0                                  tr. 1986-
Drug Supply/Material Mgt.                    1              12                         24                                   1992
LOCAL TUASNN(
ORGAN& MGT                                                               146                         66               45
Finncial Mgt. Seminars                     60                I                         60                                   ODA fUnded
Comnputer awanrenes                         6                I                          6
Health Inform back-up                     160              112                          0
HEALTH AND F? SERVICES                                                 762.5                        N/A             N/A    Most trining
has been
* Nurse clinician in PP                                                                                                     done but not
* VHWs in FP                              125               3                         N/A                                  recorded un-
* Tutor Trin. Health & FP                 625              113                        N/A                                  der HPP,
*  EC Train, for HSA staff                 20                2                        N/A                                  funded by
* Laboratory technician                                                                                                    donors/grants
* Nure Tr. in T  screen                    10S            12                         N/A                                   but not quan-
* Seminsr Labor. officials h                                                                                               tifiable
community leaders                        15               2                        N/A
5             1/2                        N/A
160             1/3                        N/A



39
PROJECT COMPONENT                           SAR PLAN                             TRAINING OUTPUT                 REMARKS
No eo          Cnee          Total         y Bsb-      By maB       AsSof SAR
peno  to be   drabm u        Pm.          cmpoet   compoec   toed by min
rbed           pw SAR        weel.. by    (No. of      (P. Week)   cnMPse
(Weeks)       main         pe                       (3/1lx 100)
compoemt   weeks) (2)
PH AMAC SUPPLY                                                     54                       36             66
* Drug mpply & diributioo              36              l                       36
* R.tusinizgS of 50%
13   1                        ~~~~~~~~0
TOT*AL                                                                                                           Does oot
1,335             .        2,206         N/A      N/A          N/A         iocl. H"ltb
-   -P Serv.



40
Annex II
FIRST HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
CONSULTANT SERVICES
STATUS AS AT OCTOBER 1992
P"aed Cemp                                                       Coani Sevice (Nun Months)                       RMarks
SAR         R.viced and    Comped          Comp btdo.
Tawst       agred   a at   as at Oct.      data
Nov. 1990      1992
1.          Petwnmi Manaemm                                  24             26              26           1986
Hkh infcamation
Exunejon into PHN O
1.         CoNuputar Programmer                              24             48              48          09/89
2.          Heh Inflostion                                     4              0              O                   Done in PHN U
3.          Hahb Surveys                                       4              0              0                   TA from Bumau of Statist.
Denlised Financal Manaemem
1.         FinLanial Managesan                                6             43              48          07/90   Conad. into PHN 11
Commnaaio
1.         Instala*iosngineer                               6               15             Is          1287   (2) was included in (1)
2.          bainA  a'ce Enitnee                               12              0              0
Clinic coasrucut &  enovation
1           Dandib Volunaen (2)                              48             48              48          07/90   Paid by DANIDA
Health & FP Services Delivery
1.          Client Record SpeciaLit                           3              0               0                   Done by CDC, Aiants
J hSI Conmultands
INC
I.          EEC Manamam Planer                               1.5             0               0                   Not utilized year
2.         EEC SpeciaIbt                                       8              0              0                   Not utilized
National TB Pgrm
Coutd. in PHN  Iuwded by
I          TB SpecisLit                                      24             48              48          07/90   Irish Govt (2) considerd
2.          Recstance Re_rcb                                   3              0              0                   Dot aceded
Population Activities
I           Special Projects Coord.                           8              0               0                   Activity deferred
_aeafkl SnDv SntM
Pharmautc  Logi ics                                            6              0              0
M_reer Develo tm
1           Director NHTC and Cutriculum Specialist          36              48             48           5/90   Funded by Iricb Govt.
TOTAL                                2175             281            281               -



