Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3951-LSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
e                                              APRIL 1, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its rentents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       Maloti (M) 1
US$0.63                =              1.00
US$1.00                             M 1.98
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                                   3.28 feet
I square meter (m2)          =            10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                          0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2      -            0.3861 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                            2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                           2.2046 lbs
I metric ton                              2,205 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
BCG     --   Bacillus Calmet Guerin
DANIDA  --   Danish Development Agency
DPT     --   Diphtheria, Petrussis and Tetanus
EEC     --   European Economic Community
IEC     --   Information, Education and Communication
IPPF    --   international Planned Parenthood Federation
LDA     --   Lesotho Dispensary Association
LPPA    --   Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association
MCH     --   Maternal and Child Health
PCX     --   Protein-Calorie Malnut ition
PHAL    --   Private Health Associacion of Lesotho
SCF     --   Save the Children Fund
TB      --   Tuberculosis
UNDP    --   United Nations Development Program
UNFPA        United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF  --   United Nations Children's Fund
UIPAC   --   United Nation Children's Fund Supply Division,
Packing and Assembly Centre
USAID   --   United States Agency for International Development
WFP     --   World Food Program
WHO     --   World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
GOL:  April 1-March 31
1 Maloti are at par and circulate side by side with the South African
Rand.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Kitgdom of Lesotho
Amount:                 SDR 3.7 million (US$3.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:   The project aims to strengthen the organization and
management of the Ministry of Health; improve the
efficiency, effectiveness and coverage of health
care and family planning services; and strengthen
manpower development and training. It would:
provide technical assistance and equipment for
strengthening the organization, and financial and
personnel management, health information and
communications systems in the Ministry of Health;
provide ouildings, equipment and facilities for
improving and expanding the maternal and child
health (MCH)/family planning services and TB control
program; improve and expand local manufacture and
distribution of drugs; and provide tzchnical
assistance, fellowships, buildings and facilities
for manpower planning and staff training.
Benefits and Risks:    The improvements in organization, management,
manpower planning and training would raise the
efficiency and effectiveness of health service
delivery. Improvements in the pharmaceutical supply
*                                     system, TB control program and provision of low-cost
out-patient treatment facilities would result in
savings of about M 880,000 (US$550,000) annually in
the cost of providing health care services. The
MCH/family planning component would lead to lower
fertility levels and also morbidity and mortality
rates among infants and mothers.
The project's major risk relates to the training
component, which would involve creation of a new
institution. Technical assistance to be provided
under the project would minimize this risk.
This docurnent has a restricLed distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
|of thcir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WoTld Bank authorization.|



(ii)
Project Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
USS million
Ministry or Health Organ. and Management       0.124     0.789      0.913
Health and Family Planning Services            0.459      1.453     1.912
Pharmaceutical Supply System                   0.122     0.573      0.695
Manpower Development                           0.564      1.622     2.186
Total Base Cost                              1.269     4.437      5.706
Contingencies:  Physical                       0.075     0.240      0.315
Price                         0.386      1.011     1.397
Total                                        1.730     5.688      7.418
(Of which duties and taxes)                       (0.183)       -      (0.183)
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                                 3.50
Irish Govt.                                                         1.12
EEC                                                                 0.74
DANIDA                                                              0.37
WHO                                                                 0.19
USAID                                                               0.15
UNDP                                                                0.07
GOL                                                                 1.28
7.42
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA FY                86     87     88    89      90
… ________ US$ Million-     -
Annual               0.25   0.35   0.60   1.00  1.30
Cumulative           0.25   0.60   1.20   2.20  3.50
Appraisal Report: No. 5437-LSO
Map: No. IBRD 18638 of January 1985



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TI-  XECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON . PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for SDR 3.7 million (US$3.5 million equivalent) on
standard terms to the Kingdom of Lesotho to help finance a Health and
Population Project. Co-financing, totalling approximately US$2.6 million
equivalent, would be provided on a parallel basis by the Irish Republic,
EEC, DANIDA, WHO, USAID and UNDP.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent Economic Memorandum on Lesotho (No.4415-LSO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1983. Country data
are presented in Annex I.
3.        Lesotho is a small, landlocked country surrounded by the Republic
of South Africa with which it has ideological differences but with which it
must co-exist. It is mountainous and, other than abundanc water and small
deposits of diamonds, it possesses few natural resources. About 13 percent
of its 30,400 sq km is suitable for crop farming, but only 0.4 percent is
considered as having high potential. Productivity in crop farming is low
due to poor land quality, a harsh climate, and lack of proven technological
packages. Livestock raising is the country's principal agricultural
activity, but overstocking and inadequate herd management have led to
overgrazing, widespread soil erosion and limited production. Agriculture
is still the leading sector of the economy, however, providing employment
and livelihood for nearly 85 percent of the resident population.
Development of a modern industrial sector is limited by the small size of
the domestic market; the proximity of the highly industrialized South
African economy, which supplies Lesotho with most of the goods and services
it requires; a shortage of skilled entrepreneurial, managerial and
technical manpower; and the necessity of importing nearly all raw matcriala
and intermediate goods. Consequently, manufacturing is a small sector of
the economy.
4.        The most significant characteristic of Lesotho's economy is its
heavy dependence on South Africa where more than 90 percent of its imports
originate, as do all oF its electricity and most of its foreign investment
and tourism. Its only outlets to the sea are via South Africa's transport
facilities and ports. About one-half of the male labor force depends upon
employment in South Africa (mainly *n mining); remittances of migrant
workers constitute over 40 percent of Lesotho's ANP; and over 70 percent of



- 2 -
Government revenues are derived from receipts from the Southern Africa
Customs Union duties and taxes on behalf of the member countries (Botswana,
Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland). In addition, Lesotho is a member of
the Rand Monetary Area which, while guaranteeing payment of Lesotho's
foreign financial commitments, limits its ude of monetary policy
instruments. On balance, however, given Lesotho's size, location and
resource constraints, the gains from membership in the Customs Union and
the Rand Monetary Area far outweigh its costs.
5.        Despite constraints to its development, Lesotho's economy grew
rapidly in the 1970s. Real GDP rose by about seven percent per annum
during the mid-to late 1970s, and as a result of increasing employment and
wages for Basotho in South Africa, real GNP expanded by about nine percent
per annum. The gains in domestic output were the result primarily of large
increases in public investment and in the provision of government
services. Tourism and mining also contributed significantly to economic
growth, the former owing to an increasing number of visitors from South
Africa and the latter resulting from the opening of a new diamond mine
(which has since been closed down). The industrial and agricultural
sectors, on the other hand, have expanded only modestly since the
mid-1970s.
6.        Since 1980, however, the factors which made the higher growth
rates possible have weakened considerably. Export values have fallen each
year and have combined with declining terms of trade to result in
merchandise export levels in 1983 which were less than half the 1980
total. This slowdown in resource inflows, coupled with the Government's
expansionary fiscal policy in the early 1980s, had an adverse effect on
Lesotho's balance of payments. The budget deficit widened continuously,
reaching about 11 percent of GDP ir: 1981/82. Imports grew sharply,
doubling the 1978 level by 1981, and have continued to grow slowly in
volume and value since then. Despite a moderate growth of migrant workers'
remittances -- the major source of foreign exchange earnings -- the current
account deficit rose from US$24 million in 1979 to US$74 million in 1981.
Much of the deficit was financed by short-term loans which led to a sharp
rise ir. debt service payments.
7.        Recognizing the seriousness of the fiscal/balance of payments
crisis, the Government instituted an austerity program in 1982. It
tighte,aed financial controls, froze wages and employment in the civil
service and cut back the capital hudget. In December 1982, it introduced a
sales tax of five percent. The 1984/85 budget, approved in March 1984,
introduced measures to boost domestic revenues by increasing the sales tax
and liquor taxes, and levied user charges for services provided by
Government to farmers. A tax has also been imposed on imported livestock
and the Government is considering taxing migrant workers' remittances and
livestock ownership.



8.        As a result of these efforts and a timely increase in Customs
Union receipts, resulting from a change In the revenue-sharing formula,
both the fiscal situation and the balance of payments have been brought
under control. The overall fiscal deficit has been reduced to 2.4 percent
of GNP in 1983/84 with a further reduction likely in 1984/85. The balance
of payments current account deficit has been reduced from US$74 million in
1981 to US$21 million in 1983, and a deficit of only US$8 million is
expected in ;9B4. The improvements in financial management were not,
however, without cost, as real GDP (at factor cost) declined during
1981-83, and the growth of GNP, while quite high in 1981/82 and 1982/83,
d*celerated to less than two percent in 1983/84 ard is likely to be about
the same in 1984/85.
9.        Lesotho's economic prospects for the rest of the 1980s are at
best uncertain. Receipts from the Customs Union are expected to decline as
a result of declining imports, as is external development assistance, due
to world-wide shortage of concessionary aid and the country's limited
absorptive capacity. No significant private investment is foreseen, given
limited potential in agriculture, industry and mining, and also because of
the unfavorable political climate. At the same time, the outlook for
Basotho employment in South Africa is bleak. The number of Basotho workers
in South African mines declined from about 129,000 in 1977 to 115,000 in
1983. This downward trend is likely to continue due to South Africa's
policy of inereasiag employment of domestic labor, continued depressed
prices for metals and increased mechanization of the mines, thus lowering
the demand for unskilled, and hence new recruits from Lesotho.
10.       Although Lesotho's prospects for growth and development are
limited by unfavorable external factors, as well as natural constraints,
opportunities do exist for improving the economy. An immediate concern is
sustaining the improvement in public sector finances and economic
management. This will require strengthening mechanisms for expenditure
planning and control, and increasing revenues. One major bottleneck that
must be removed in order to improve the performance of the public sector is
the ineffectiveness of the Government's economic management and development
planning machinery, principally the Central Planning and Development Office
(CPDO) of the Ministry of Planning, Employment and Economic Affairs.
Although CPDO was established soon after independence in 1966, it has not
been effective due to structural deficiencies and a shortage of trained
staff.  The absence of an effective development planning capability within
the Government has led at times to decisions on major investment projects
which are not entirely consistent with declared policy objectives. Notable
examples are the highly capital-intensive Food-for-Self-Sufficiency Program
and the new international airport.
LI.       To remove development planning deficiencies, the Government is
considering proposals for reorganizing and restructuring the planning
machinery with the objectives of: (a) strengthening the ultimate
decision-making process in the selection of development priorities and
public investment programmes; (b) introducing a more coherent vertical
integration of the planning function and its professional staff; and
(e) formulating precise and clearly articulated policy guidelines for



- 4 -
selection of national and sectoral development priorities, and for
identification, preparation, monitoring and evaluation of development
projects and programmes. The proposals include creating a planning cadre
(or Economic Common Service) under CPDO; restructuring CPDO (including
creation of a macro-economic analysis section); and establishing a National
Planning CoLincil to be chaired by the Prime Minister. The successful
implementation of these proposals should substantially increase the
potential for improved development planning in Lesotho, but will require
qualified and able staff, and competent management.
12.       Development prospects in the major sectors continue to be
limited. In agriculture, research results have shown that there is good
potential for diversifying output to include production of high-value crops
for export. However, further studies are needed to establish the viability
of their production on a commercial scale and to determine appropriate
marketing arrangements. In livestock, the problems of overgrazing and
over-stocking need to be addressed. A Bank review of the agricultural
sector is scheduled for FY85/86. The industrial sector is not likely to
contribute significantly to Income and employment generation, given the
competition from South Africa and the small domestic market.  However,
limited prospects exist for export-oriented manufactures which have yet to
be fully explored, and the Bank plans to review the sector's potential in
FY87. In other areas, the Bank Group is assisting, or planning to assist:
rehabilitation of the highway and rural road network; improvement of basic
education and technical and vocational training; and delivery of basic
health and family planning services.
13.       By far the most promising development prospect for Lesotho is the
exploitation of its abundant water resources, for the sale of water to
South Africa and hydro-electricity generation for domestic consumption
and/or export. In order to tap this resource, Lesotho has proposed a
Highlands Water Project on which feasibility studies are currently
underway. The project is estimated to cost about USS1.5 billion.
According to preliminary estimates, Lesotho could earn net revenues of up
to USS125 million annually - more than double its present merchandise
export earnings -- from the sale of water. In addition, about 212 gwh of
electricity per year would be generated. Other potential benefits of the
project would be employment for about 2,000 workers during construction and
use of the water for irrigation purposes. Project implementation would
take more than 20 years (1988-2012).
14.       As a  Least developed country", with a limited potential for
generating domestic revenues, Lesotho depends almost entirely on external
assistance to finance its development program. Grants, mainly from
bilateral sources, constittute about 60 percent of total external capital
assistance and the balance consists of Loans on soft terms. IDA is the
largest single source of multilateral assistance. As of December 1983, of
the USS145 million total external public debt, disbursed and outstanding,
IJSS48 milLion (33 percent) were IDA credits. Service payments on IDA
credits totalled only four percent of Lesotho's total service payments on
medium- and long-term debt.



- 5 -
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
15.        The Bank Group's first operation in Lesotho -- a US$4.1 million
credit for a highway constructfon projert - was approved in 1966, a few
months before the country (then known as Basutoland) became an independent
kingdom. To-date, IDA has made 14 credits, totalling US$96 million, which
have financed four projects in highways, two in agriculture, four in
education, two in industrial development and one each in water supply and
urban development.  In addition, the Bank is acting as executing agency for
UNDP-financed technical assistance for strengthening the Government's
development planning organization and for assisting the Government to
supervise preparation of the proposed Highlands Water Project (para. 13).
Also, IDA is supervising an agricultural marketing and credit project on
behalf of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). IFC
has made one investment of US$330,000 in a quarrying operation. Summary
statements on IDA credits and IFC investments are provided in Annex II.
16.       Lesotho's performance in implementing IDA-assisted projects has
been mixed. While highway and education projects have had relatively few
problems, projects in other sectors, particularly in agriculture, have
encountered serious problems due to ineffective coordination within the
Government and delays in appointing project staff.  In addition, the
disbursement rate on IDA credits, which hitherto had been significantly
higher than the Eastern and Southern Africa Regional and Bank-wide averages
(e.g., in FY78, 41 percent for Lesotho and 23 percent for the Eastern
Africa Region, and 21 percent Bank-wide), has slowed down considerably
since FY79 because of a shortage of budgetary funds which is making it
difficult for the Government to prefinance project expenditures which are
reimbursed subsequently by IDA. As a result, from FY79 to FY82 the
disbursement rate on credits to Lesotho averaged about 15 percent per annum
compared with 20 percent for the Eastern and Southern Africa Region and 22
percent Bank-wide. The Government has instituted measures to resolve the
budget crisis by tightening financial management in the public
sector (paras. 7 and 8). In IDA-assisted projects, technical assistance is
being provided and local staff trained to strengthen project implementing
agencies and also, where appropriate, revolving funds are being established
to obviate the need for prefinancing by the Government of local
*           expenditures financed by IDA.
17.       The Bank's future assistance to Lesotho hinges on the
Government's capacity to design and implement realistic programs relevant
to the productive potential of the country. The principal focus of our
strategy hence will be to strengthen the Government's capacity for
effective economic planning and developing approaches to increasing
productivity, employment and income in agriculture and industry. We also
expect to provide assistance for: manpower development and training;



-6-
improv:ng the delivery of basic health services and implementation of
population control measures; institution-building and improving the
cost-effectiveness of government services. Finally, the Bank's stragey
also includes assistance in preparating and financing the Highlands Water
Project. To implement the above strategy, and apart from the proposed
Health and Population Project, the lending program includes projects in
agriculture, industrial development, education and water development. In
addition, planned economic and sector work includes Bank reviews of the
agricultural and industrial sectors, and economic management and
development planning, and a study of options for utilization of revenues
expected to be generated by the Highlands Water Project.
PART III -- THE HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR
Health Status
18.       Partly reflecting relatively high per capita incomes, life
expectancy in Lesotho, at 52 years, compares favorably with that in
neighboring countries and also in middle income countries in sub-Saharan
Africa (51.9). Infant mortality is 97 per 1,000 compared to an average of
140 in sub-Saharan Africa. The high altitude and temperate climate protect
the population of Lesotho from many endemic diseases prevalent in tropical
climates. Of particular significance is the absence of malaria. The
leading causes of morbidity and mortality are diseases of the respiratory
system (mainly infections and TB), diseases of the digestive system
(including diarrhea and gastro-enteritis) and diseases of the
genito-urinary system (including gonorrhea).  This reflects some of the
problems associated with migrant labor, which is believed to play a major
role in the transmission of sexually-transmitted diseases and TB, major
problems which are difficult to combat because of the lack of effective
screening and follow-up programs. Malnutrition is an important cause of
childhood morbidity and mortality. Its prevalence is subject to
significant seasonal variations, and has been exacerbated in the past three
years by drought.
Health and Population Policy
19.       Lesotho inherited at independence a centralized, hospital-based
health care system. While the first two national development plans
focussed on strengthening the curative system, in 1979 the Government
adopted a strategy that emphasized primary health care. Steps have since
been taken to improve provision of these services at the village level
through a cadre of village health workers; the expansion of maternal and
child health (MCH) programs; and the broadening of access to clinics. The
MCH program also includes growth monitoring and rehabilitation programs.



20.       Although the Government has not developed a formal national
population policy, it recognizes the adverse effect of demographic
pressures on the economy as evidenced by the resolutions of the 1979
National Population Management Conference, policy statements made by the
Prime Minister, and the Third National Plan (1980-85), which are explicit
on the importance of family planning and the need to reduce population
growth, even though no specific targets are set. The principal strategy
for reducing population growth in the Third Plan is the promotion of family
planning in the context of maternal and child health care.
Organization and Management
21.       The Ministry of Health, which was reorganized in 1983 to provide
better support for the primary health care system, has overall
responsibility for setting health policy, planning and directing health
system development, and operating about half of the country's health
facilities. Under the Permanent Secretary, the Director of Health Services
coordinates all Government health activities, assisted by nine deputies.
At field level, each of Lesotho's ten administrative districts has a
District Medical Office of Health who, assisted by a district health team,
is responsible for planning, programming, monitoring and evaluating the
district health program. Within each district are one or more health
service areas, each containing a general hospital and a number of health
clinics. Health service area staff, headed by a Medical Director, are
responsible for service delivery within the area. Planning, budgeting and
accounting are progressively being delegated to health service area staff.
The general hospital in each health service area, private or public, serves
as the referral, technical and administrative management point for all
health clinics. Each general hospital refers serious cases to the Queen
Elizabeth II hospital (the main national referral hospital) in Maseru, the
capital. At the village level, a cadre of volunteer village health workers
has been formed to provide the first level of health care and serve as a
link between the villages and health clinics. The health service area
system was introduced four years ago, with support from USAID, as a means
of decentralizing the Ministry of Health's operations and promoting better
coordination of public and private health systems. While much progress has
been made, more needs to be done to develop appropriate norms and standards
for supervision of hospital and health center operations, and to further
decentralize budgeting and financial control.
22.       Church organizations are active in the provision of health
services. In 1974, six of them (Roman Catholic, Evangelical, Anglican
Seventh Day Adventist, Assemblies of God and Methodist) formed the Private
Health Association of Lesotho (PHAL), to maximize mobilization of external
resources for health services and promote coordination of their
activities. Health services are also provided by about 22 physicians in
private practice, mainly in the Maseru area.



3.       Health information systems require improvement.  Only about a
third of births and a quarter of deaths are reported. Although morbidity
ACd mortality data have been systematicelly collected since 1981, there is
need to collect more diagnosis-specific and age-specific data, and to
improve data processing capacity.
,;ug Manufacture and Distribution
.4.       About 40 percent of drugs used in Lesotho are locally
manufactured by the Lesotho Dispensary Association (LDA), an efficient
government-sponsored corporation established in 1979 with assistance from
the Netherlands Government. LDA is so successful in producing drugs at
competitive prices that it is able to export its products regularly to
several countries in Southern Africa and beyond (Botswana, Malawi,
Mozambique, Swaziland, Zambia and Zaire). LDA also manages on contract the
National Drug Stockpile Organization (NDSO), a unit of the Ministry of
Health which supplies the drug needs of all the Government and most private
facilities. In order to improve cost-effectiveness, the Ministry is taking
measures to overcome deficiencies in NDSO's procurement, management,
inventory control and supervision, so that NDSO can assume the distributioLt
of drugs and medical supplies presently handled by a number of separate
programs. One factor increasing drug costs is the special procurement by
hospitals and health clinics of drugs outside the existing national
formulary. The Ministry is currently revising the formulary, and with
effect from the 1986/87 fiscal year, all drug procurement would be based on
the revised formulary (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06).
Health Facilities
25.       There are 20 hospitals, of which 11 are operated by Government,
and the rest by PHAL. About 125 health clinics (70 PHAL, 39 Government and
16 by the Red Cross, the Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association (LPPA) or
local communities) provide the bulk of outpatient services. Health
facilities tend to be concentrated in the lowlands and urban areas. The
Government is redressing this imbalance through a major program of
donor-assisted health clinic upgrading and construction, which has upgraded
about 60 clinics in the past four years, mainly in mountain areas. The
rapidly growing peri-urban areas of major towns are also relatively
underserved, with the consequence that urban hospitals are over-burdened by
patients seeking treatment for relatively minor ailments that could be
treated more cost-effectively in filter clinics. The Government proposes
to remedy this problem by establishing a limited number of filter clinics
in peri-urban areas.
Health Manpower Development and Training
26.       The shortage of medical personnel is a major impediment to the
development of health services. More than 75 percent of doctors in the
public health service are expatriates on two-year contracts. Similar
shortages exist in nursing cadres and health support personnel.



- 9 -
Personnel management systems in the Ministry of Health are inadequate.
Reliable information on staffing is not routinely available, and there is a
need for a review of job grading and incentive policies. These problems
are recognized by the Government as common to many ministries, and the
Cabinet Secretariat, which has overall responsibility for government
personnel policies, has begun to address them on a government-wide basis,
with assistance from the British Government. This exercise will take at
least five years to be completed. However, the review of the Ministry of
Health would be completed during the first year of the project, and the
Government would, not later than December 31, 1986, submit to IDA for
review and comments, the results of this review (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.05).
27.       High-level medical personnel (physicians, dentists, specialist
nurses) receive training abroad; other cadres are trained locally.
Although a manpower plan was prepared in 1982/83, refinement is needed, and
the plan includes no systematic training targets. Training is carried out
by a number of units operating out of rented or borrowed facilities that
are inadequate for the purpose. Curricula need revision to give greater
emphasis on primary health care services. The Government's strategy
emphasizes the need to consolidate existing training programs at a National
Health Training Center and improve eurricula.
Major Health Programs
28.       The MCH program, which is implemented by health service area
staff, is coordinated and supervised by the Family Health Unit. The
program includes the provision of ante-natal and post-natal care, growth
monitoring and, in some areas, food supplementation. Statistics indicate
that some 50 percent of pregnant women are seen at least once for
ante-natal care, and 70 percent of infants receive at least one examination
during the first year of life. These are impressive figures, although
some double-counting of clinic visits cannot be ruled out. MCH nurses
provide some health education on topics such as hygiene and nutrition, but
this is not effective because of lack of proper training and material
support. The Extended Program of Immunization was established in 1980,and
originally operated through mobile vaccination teams. The program is now
delivered by health service area staff as part of MCH services. A joint
*            donor evaluation in 1982 found that 40 percent of children between one and
two years of age had been fully immunized against TB, polio, measles and
DPT -- a performance that ranked among the best in Africa. The TB and
sexually-transmitted discases control programs suffer from lack of
effective screening programs or follow-up, although progress has been made
in recent years in strengthening laboratory services for the TB program.
The Ministry of Health plans to develop the program in stages before
mounting a nationwide program.
29.       Health Education is the responsibility of the Health Education
Unit in the Ministry of Health. Priority is given to six areas -
immunization, sanitation, diarrhea treatment/oral rehydration therapy,
family planning, breast-feeding and weaning practices, and TB/sexually
transmitted diseases/leprosy. Adequate donor assistance is available for
the first three areas of concentration, but assistance is required in the
other areas, particularly family planning.



- 10 -
30.       Family Planning services have been provided In Lesotho since tI'-
late 1960's by the Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association (LPPA). an
affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF).
Despite these efforts, and recent efforts by the Ministry of Health.
contraceptive usage remains relatively low, at around five to eigh*
percent. This level reflects major constraints on both the supply an'
demand sides.  Regarding supply, the program is not well coor.iinated, snt
has no quantifiable fertility reduction targets.  Also, the amoun:., type
and quality of the services vary between agencies and facilities. A
UNFPA-supported training project is improving the level of knowledge of
family planning among health staff. On the demand side, there is a
variable charge structure for the services provided by the different
service agencies, and in some cases, charges levied act as a
dis-incentive. Assurance was obtained at negotiations that the charge
structure for services provided by public and private sector agencies would
be rationalized not later than July 1, 1986 (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.04).
Health Expenditures and Financing
31.       In 1983/84, government health expenditures were M 14.1 million,
and PHAL spent M 3.8 million, totalling about two percent of GNP. Private
health expenditures are estimated to have amounted to a further one percent
of GNP. As a proportion of GNP, both government health expenditures and
overall national expenditures are comparable to those in other
middle-income sub-Saharan African countries. In real terms, recurrent
expenditures by the Ministry of Health increased at an average annual rate
of 10 percent during the period 1979/80-1984/85, averaging 8.2 percent of
the overall government recurrent budget, the same as in the period
1974/7'-1978/79.  Seventy percent of the Ministry's recurrent expenditures
is spetit at hospitals. With emphasis on primary health care services, this
patteri of expenditure, which at present is typical of developing
counties, is expected to shift in favor of village and clinic level
serviLes.
32.       In the private sector, operating costs are met primarily froml
user charges. For PHAL facilities, user fees consistently cover 60-80
percent of operating costs, compared with less than six percent in
government facill-ies in 1983/84 (down from 16 percent in 1974/75). The
low level of coss. recovery for government services is due to the low level
of fees which are not efficiently collected.  While the current level of
cost recovery is above average by African standards, the present situation
poses three problems in Lesotho. First, on present trends, overall
government recurrent cost needs are likely to exceed the health services'
share of overall recurrent budget resources by M 0.5 million to M 2.5
million by 1989/90. Secondly, low fees divert clients from PHAL facilities
to government facilities, and from clinics to hospitals, causing
distortions in resource allocation and increasing the cost of government
health services. Thirdly, the high level of subsidization in government
facilities is inequitable, since the more expensive PHAL facilities are
concentrated among low income groups in highland areas. The Government is



- 1 -
keenly aware of these distortions and inequities and is considering ways of
improving cost recovery. To this end, the Ministry of Health will engage
consultants, to be financed by the EEC, to carry out a health financing
study, under terms of reference which have been agreed with IDA.
Assurance was obtained at negotiations that the consultants' report would
be made available to IDA, and that the Government would, not later than
Mareh 31, 1986, submit for discussion with IDA a plen of action to raise
the level of cost recovery (draft Development Cred_t Agreement, Section
5.03).
33.       External Assistance.  Both multilateral and bilateral agencies
are active in the health sector in Lesotho, and fund the bulk of the
Government's capital expenditures in the sector (about 85 percent in
1983/84). The African Development Bank has made a loan of US$10 m:1iion
for the construction and upgrading of rural health facilities. In total,
multilateral agencies have provided almost US$40 million in funding between
197B and 1984. About US$30 million have come in the same period from
bilateral sources, including USAID, DANIDA, the Federal Republic of Germany
and Ireland. Voluntary agencies also support health activities. External
assistance is effectively coordinated.
Role of the Bank
34.       In 1980, the Bank carried out a review of the population, health
and nutrition sector and recommended that the Government give priority to
programs to slow down the rate of population growth; to increase the
efficiency and effectiveness of the health care system, particularly of MCH
services; to consolidate government and PHAL activities into a unified
health care system; to address social and public health problems such as TB
and sexually-transmitted diseases; and to strengthen the Government's
planning and management capacity in the sector. These recommendations were
accepted and form the basis for the present project, which would be the
Bank Group's first operation in the sector in Lesotho.
PART IV -- THE PROJECT
Background
35.       The proposed project was prepared by staff of the Ministry of
Health with the assistance of IDA and (for the TB control and National
Health Training Center sub-components) the Government of Ireland. When
project preparation began in May 1982, the Governnent conceived a project
which focussed mainly on the provision of rechqical assistance. However,
in September 1983, the Government broadened the scope of the project to
include infrastructure and program development, and training. The project
was appraised in September 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington,



- 12 -
D.C. from March 18 to 19, 1985. The Lesotho delegation was led by
Mr. A.M. Monyake, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Planning, Employment and
Economic Affairs. Annex III provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives, Design and Description
36.       The project would support the Government's programs to:  improve
the organization and management of the Ministry of Health; strengthen and
improve access to health services (particularly MCH/family planning), TB
control programs and pharmaceutical services; introduce a major program of
information, education and communications for family planning; and increase
the number of skilled nationals in the sector by a program of manpower
development and training. Given the Government's financial constraints,
particular care has been taken to design a project that would lead to more
efficient utilization of existing resources, cost containment and cost
savings where practical, and impose a minimal recurrent cost burden.
Accordingly, the project is modest in scope and would be implemented mainly
by existing institutions with proven performance records, thus minimizing
the risk of failure. Technical assistance would be provided to minimize
the risk in components to be implemented by new institutions such as staff
training.
37.       The Bank Group's involvement in the project would help the
Government address critical policy issues such as improving cost recovery
in public health services; and changing the structure of charges for family
planning services in order to rationalize them. Secondly, the Bank Group's
involvement would assist institution-building by strengthening the Ministry
of Health. Thirdly, the Bank Group has an important role in the effective
coordination of assistance for the project from various external sources.
38.       The project would comprise the following main components:
(a) strengthening the Ministry of Health's organization and its
personnel, information and financial management; and
improving its communications system;
(b) expanding and improving MCH/family planning services through
clinic renovation and construction; and strengthening TB
control and population programs, and information education
and communication;
(c) expanding and improving national drug manufacturing
capability and strengthening the distribution system; and
(d) upgrading training and skill levels of health personnel.



- 13 -
Detailed Features
39.       Ministry of Health Organization and Management.  The project
would support the strengthening of key aspects of the Ministry's
management with the objective of improving its ability to plan and manage
health sector programs, thus increasing cost-effectiveness. Personnel
management in the Ministry is at present severely hampered by lack of
accurate information and the existence of major anomalies in job
specifications, qualifications and salary levels. The project would
supplement the ongoing job grading (para. 26) by financing a personnel
review and job classification study by consultants. Assurance was obtained
at negotiations that the results of the study would be sent to IDA for
review and comments not later than December 31, 1986 (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.05).
40.       The existing health information system does not have the capacity
to provide timely data for management and evaluation purposes (para. 23).
The project would support the introduction of redesigned data collection
and analysis systems, as well as the strengthening of the Ministry of
Health's data processing capacity by providing additional computers and
associated equipment. The project would also support a national household
survey which would provide comprehensive baseline data on the overall
health, nutrition and family planning status of the population.
41.       The Government has made considerable progress in the past two
years in decentralizing to health service areas responsibility for
financial budgeting and accounting. The project would support continued
efforts in this direction by providing for the further refinement of
budget, accounting and reporting systems, and the training of staff in
their use. A system of budget categories and procedures would be created
for the collection and analysis of expenditure data by facility and
program. These data, together with data from the improved health
iaformation system, would enable the Ministry of Health to undertake a
systematic analysis of the relative cost and efficiency of its facilities.
42.       Lesotho's difficult terrain, and absence of road links between
some remote facilities and health service area headquarters, make
supervision of clinic activities and provision of back-up support extremely
*            difficult.  The project would support the ongoing development of a two-way
radio network linking all major health facilities. To date, 70 facilities
have been connected, and funding is available to provide radio sets to a
further 55. The project would finance the remaining 16 two-way radio sets
and 18 months of specialist services for installation and maintenance. It
would also finance the provision of nine four-wheel drive vehicles to
strengthen the capability of health service areas to provide supervision
and referral services.
43.       Health and Family Planning Services.  The Government, with donor
support, embarked on a program of clinic renovation and construction
targetted at underserved areas, such as mountainous regions and peri-urban



- 14 -
areas. The project would support this program by financing the upgrading
of 18 clinics (10 belonging to Government and 8 to PHAL) to a level that
would support the provision of comprehensive family planning/MCH services.
The project would also finance the establishment of five filter clinics in
peri-urban areas, which would assist in reducing congestion at three major
urban hospitals.
44.       At present, the availability and quality of family planning
services varies considerably from clinic to clinic, depending on the
quality of staff and availability of equipment and supplies. The project
would support an expansion of services through staff training, provision of
equipment and contraceptives so that on project completion family planning
services would be available at all government and PHAL facilities.
Government facilities would offer a full range of services, including IUD
insertion, while some PHAL facilities might be more limited. Over the
project period, the contraceptive usage rate is expected to grow from 5.5
to about 8 percent. This increase would have an insignificant impact on
the medium population growth seenario.  The project focuses on
strengthening family planning service delivery, through institutional
development as a basis for developing a target-oriented program by the end
of the project period.
45.       The project would support the creation of a national information
education and communication program, using two approaches. First, it would
provide equipment, consultants' services and training to strengthen the
ability of the Health .,ducation Unit to design and produce campaign
materials. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a detailed work
program and staffing schedule for the Unit would be submitted to IDA for
review and comments not later than December 31, 1985 (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.02). Secondly, in parallel to these efforts,
the project would provide funding for the production of pamphlets, posters
and radio campaigns, mainly in support of family planning, but also for
breastfeeding and weaning, and TB/sexually-transmitted diseases/leprosy
programs.
46.       The project would establish a national TB control program, using
a two-phase apnroach. The first phase, lasting two years, would help the
Government develop suitable techniques for mass surveillance and screening
and establish a home-based treatment strategy and an improved treatment
regime.  At the end of the first phase, a comprehensive national screening
and surveillance program would be designed and the implementation of this
program would form the second phase.
47.       The project would provide support for the development of
innovative population programs or activities designed to expand the
provision of family planning services outside the framework of the Ministry
of Health. Possible programs for funding include the training of leaders
of women's groups and the implementation of pilot programs for the
community-based distribution of contraceptives by village health workers or
other cadres. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that prior IDA
approval would be obtained for each program, and that arrangements
satisfactory to IDA would be made for monitoring expenditures and
evaluating the programs funded (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.05).



- 15 -
48.       Pharmaceutical Supply System.  The project would support the
expansion of drug manufacturing capacity at LDA, and improvement of quality
control. LDA's present manufacturing capacity is inadequate, and demand
for its drugs is expected to continue to rise. The expansion of productive
capacity would necessitate the construction of additional factory,
laboratory and office space. Since LDA is a commercially and financially
sound enterprise, funding for the required expansion works would be
obtained from commercial borrowing. The likely source of such financing is
the Lesotho National Development Corporation, which currently is
implementing an IDA-funded line of credit (Cr. 985-LS0) and has indicated
that uncommitted funds are available for lending to LDA. In order to
improve the delivery of drugs and other medical supplies to health
facilities, the project would provide technical assistance to improve
storage and handling facilities, procurement, distribution, inventory
control and management procedures.
49.       Manpower Development and Training . The project would provide
substantial support to the programs supported under the project's other
components. A major objective would be to provide training to nationals
who would replace expatriates already in the service, or recruited under
the project. The project would establish and support the operation of a
new national Health Training Center (NHTC) to replace the scattered and
inadequate leased facilities currently being used for the training of some
nursing cadres and support personnel. The course curricula would be
revised during the first year of the project and assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the revision of the curricula, with appropriate family
planning content, would be completed by July 1, 1986 and introduced during
the 1986/87 academic year (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.07). The didactic and professional skills of NHTC faculty staff would be
upgraded by the provision of overseas training which would also be provided
for management personnel with key roles in the project's organization and
management, health and family planning services, and pharmaceutical supply
system components. Local seminars, workshops and short training courses
would be provided to retrain staff involved in new or improved programs.
The project would also provide funding for the updating and refinement of
the Ministry of Health's short-, medium- and long-term manpower development
and training plans.
Costs and Financing
50.       The project's total costs, including contingencies, taxes and
duties are estimated at about USS7.4 million, of which US$5.7 million (77
percent) are in foreign exchange. Import duties would not be paid on goods
purchased within the Southern Africa Customs Union area or imported into
it for government programs. Taxes would therefore be limited to a sales
tax of six percent levied on local purchases of materials and equipment,
which is estimated to be about US$200,000 equivalent (less than three
percent of project costs). Incremental recurrent costs (for salaries,
vehicle operation and maintenance, and equipment maintenance) are included
for the 4-year implementation period and amount to 19 percent of total
costs. These costs have been calculated on the b.sis of estimated



- 16 -
February 1985 prices. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 12
percent on civil works and five percent on furniture and equipment. Local
contingencies have been included at 13 percent in 1985 and 12 percent in
subsequent years. Foreign price contingencies are estimated at eight
percent in 1985, nine percent in 1986-88 and 7.5 percent thereafter.
51.       Financing from external sources would cover US$6.1 million of
project costs, or 82.5 percent. The proposed IDA credit of US$3.5 million
wouLd cover about 47 percent of project costs, and grants by the Irish
Government (US$1.1 million), DANIDA (US$0.4 million), EEC (US$0.8 million),
USAID (USS0.2 million), WHO (US$0.2 million) and UNDP (US$0.01 million)
wouLd make up the balance of external financing. The Government would
contribute US$1.3 million equivalent from its own resources. The IDA
credit would finance construction and renovation of clinics, purchase of
equipment, vehicles, drug materials, consultants' services, training and
population activities. The Irish Government grant would finance the TB
control and National Health Training Center sub-components; the DANIDA
grant would finance the drug manufacturing sub-component and elements of
the clin..c renovation sub-component; the EEC grant would finance part of
the clinic renovation component and elements of the MCH/family planning
services delivery sub-component; USAID would finance some of the
felLowships; and WHO and UNDP would finance some elements of technical
assLstance. Conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the Irish
and EEC financing would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit
(draft Development Credit 'greement, Section 7.01 (a), and tb)).
Project Execution
52.       The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Health would have
overall responsibility for project implementation, which is expected to
last five years. The project is designed to be implemented through the
regular management structure of the Ministry of Health and other agencies.
Specific responsibility for project coordination would be assigned to the
Director of Health Planning and Statistics at Ministry Headquarters who has
been designated as Project Coordinator. She would be assisted by a
full-time deputy and a project accountant financed from the proposed
credit. Project implementation would require the appointment of additional
staff for new facilities such as the training center, filter clinics and
the TB screening program. Assurance was obtained at negotiations that
appropriate staff positions would be established and funded in a timely
manner to meet the additional manpower requirements for project activities
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)). The Ministry of
Works, which has an architectural unit attached to the Ministry of Health,
would be responsible for civil works.
Technical Assistance and Consultants
53.       The project would include 215.5 staff-months of technical
assistance and consultancy services. These would include 24 staff-months
in personnel management; 27 staff-months for health information; 24
staff-months for decentralized financial management; 27 staff-months for TB
control; and 36 staff-months for the national health training center.



- 17 -
Other consultants would support the development of surveys; installation
and maintenance of communications equipment; strengthening of MCH/family
planning; development of population programs; and the strengthening of drug
supply system. Terms of reference for the major consultant and technical
assistance positions were agreed at negotiations.
Procurement
54.       Civil works contracts above US$500,GJO in value would be awarded
after ICB.  The renovation of rural clinics (US$0.9 million), which are
relatively small and widely scattered, would be carried out by force
account by the Ministry of Works, which has adequate capacity to do the
works. Contracts for the construction of TB and peri-urban filter clinics
(US$0.2 million) would be grouped and awarded after LCB procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank Group. Vehicles, equipment and drugs (US$0.3)
would be appropriately grouped and awarded after ICB. Radio equipment to
be purchased under the project would represent only about 10 percent of the
value of existing equipment, which was procured after limited ICB. For
purposes of standardization, this equipment would be procured after
negotiations with suppliers of existing equipment with the prior approval
of IDA. Furniture would be grouped and procured by LCB; small contracts,
valued below US$25,000 and not exceeding US$100,000 in aggregate, would be
procured by prudent shopping. Under ICB domestic manufacturers would be
granted a margin of preference of 15 percent of the bid price of imported
goods, or the applicable rate of import duties, whichever is less. All
contracts above US$i00,000 in value would be subject to prior review by
IDA. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
Procurement of consultancy services would be according to Bank guidelines.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.



- 18 -
(US$ million)
Project Element                         Procurement Method
ICB        LCB      Other       NA    Total Cost
Civil Works                     1.9        0.2      0.8         -        2.9
(1.3)     (0.1)    (0.4)        (-)     (1.8)
Equipment, Vehicles
Contraceptives, Supplies        0.3        0.1       1.2                 1.6
Materials                      (0.3)      (0.1)    (0.2)       (-)      (0.6)
Technical Assistance            -           -         -        2.2       2.2
Fellowships, Training,         (-)         (-)       C-)      (1.0)    (1.0)
Surveys
_           _         -         0.1     0.
Population Activities         (-)          (-)       (-)      (0.1)    (0.1)
Recurrent Costs                -            -         -        0.6       0.6
C-)         C-)       (-)        (-)       (-)
TOTAL                          2.2         0.3       2.0       2.9       7.4
(1.6)      (0.2)    (0.6)       (1.1)    (3.5)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Disbursements
55.       Disbursements from the IDA credit would be as follows:  (a) 100
percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items
procured locally, i.e., furniture, equipment, vehicles, spare parts,
supplies and raw materials for drug production; (b) 100 percent of total
expenditures for population activities, training and surveys; (c) 100
percent of total expenditures for consultants' services; (d) 80 percent of
total expenditures for civil works under contracts (US$1.3 million) and (e)
80 percent of total expenditures for civil works under force account
(US$0.3 million). Disbursements under (a), (c) and (d) would be fully
documented. Disbursements under (b) and (e) would be on the basis of
statements of expenditure, except for expenditures on overseas training,
which would be fully documented. The credit would be fully disbursed by
June 20, 1990. In order to facilitate project implementation, provision



- 19 -
would be made for retroactive financing of up to the US dollar equivalent
of SDR 75,000 of contracts signed on or after October 1, 1984, in respect
of the preparation of civil works designs and tender documents (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 3). A five-year
disbursement schedule is proposed instead of the nine-year profile for
population projects Bank-wide. For the first two years, the schedule
conforms to the profile, but thereafter, disbursements are expected to
accelerate because of the small size of civil works and a substantial
technical assistance component which is expected to be quick-disbursing
Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       The Project Coordinator would be responsible for the monitoring
and evaluation of inputs, processes and outputs. The progress of the
various sub-components would be monitored according to the progress
indicators given in the implementation schedule and updated interim
projections. Each unit responsible for project implementation would
forward to the Project Coordinator monthly reports on progress. The
Project Coordinator would consolidate these reports into half-yearly
reports which would be forwarded to the project's financing agencies.
Assurance was obtained at negotiations that Government would carry out a
mid-term review of the project at the end of FY87/88 in association with
all the financiers (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08).
Accounts and Audit
57.       The Accounts Unit of the Ministry of Health, working in close
cooperation with the project accountant, would maintain separate detailed
accounts of all project expenditures. All project accounts, including
statements of expenditure, would be audited by the Auditor-General and the
audited accounts, together with the auditors' reports, would be submitted
to IDA not later than six months after the end of each of the Government's
fiscal years (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01 (b)). If
non-government auditors are used to audit the project's accounts, the cost
of such audit, estimated at US$8,100 per year, would be financed from the
credit.
58.       In order to ensure that IDA funds would be available when needed,
a Special Account, to be operated by the Project Coordinator and the
Ministry of Finance, would be established with deposits of advances from
the IDA credit. The account would be in US dollars, with an initial
deposit of the US dollar equivalent of SDR 260,000 representing about a
four-month average of expenditures to be financed from the Account. The
opening of the special account would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01 (c)). To ensure that
counterpart funding would also be available when required, the Government
would establish a separate Project Advance Account into which it would
deposit, at the beginning of each quarter, its share of project costs.



- 20 -
Establishment of this account and deposit of the initial M 100,000 would be
a condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 7.01 (d)). A further condition of credit effectiveness would be
that the establishment by Government of an Imprest Account for financing
rural clinic construction, under the control of the Director of the Rural
Clinics Implementation Project (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
7.01 (e)).
Project Benefits
59.       On completion, the project is expected to generate savings of
about M 880,000 (US$550,000) per year in the cost of providing health care
services. These cost savings would result from savings in treating TB
cases (M 180,000) through the rationalization of the treatment regimen
(providing for more cost-effective use of drugs); and from improvements in
logistic systems, procurement and management (M560,000). Also, the
establishment of filter clinics would lead to savings of M 140,000 by
providing lower cost alternatives to the out-patient facilities at the
Queen Elizabeth II Hospital and the two district hospitals. In addition to
these quantifiable benefits, mortality levels are expected to drop as a
result of health service improvements. The improvements in MCH/family
planning services should result in an increase in the numbers of family
planning acceptors, more breastfeeding, longer intervals between births and
a decrease in morbidity and mortality of both infants and mothers. These
benefits would be broadly spread amongst the population of Lesotho,
particularly in peri-urban and rural populations. The improvements in
MCH/family planning services, the introduction of a substantial national
information, education and communication campaign to create a demand for
family planning services, and the development of a comprehensive population
program would lay the groundwork for a more substantial impact on fertility
in future operations. The strengthening of the national TB control program
should result in increased case finding, better diagnosis, identification
of cases resistant to the standard treatment regimen and a decrease in the
number of defaulters, leading in the longer-term to a reduction in the
incidence and prevalence of TB.
Risks
60.       The risks associated with the proposed project seem manageable.
The project is modest in scope, and would be implemented mainly by
established units with proven records (!,ara. 52). Project demands on the
the Government recurrent budget would be kept small and would be more than
offset by the savings that would be generated by project investments. Some
degree of risk would attach to the training component, which would involve
the creation of a new institution. However, this risk would be minimized
by the provision of substantial technical assistance and groundwork already
laid with the assistance of the Irish Government.
61.       A potential risk to the effectiveness and impact of the family
planning program is the uncertainty of finding effective innovative
approaches to service delivery and education motivation, using, not only



- 21 -
the government facilities, but also those of the private sector. It is
expected that the proposed information, education and communication program
would encourage demand for the servtces, and that PHAL would be
increasingly prepared to meet these demands. Some of the church-operated
health facilities would not provide family planning services. In order to
ensure provision of these services in all areas, the Government will have
to explore ways and means of developing facilities in those areas. The
development of alternative outlets was discussed with the Government at
negotiations, and funds provided under the project for population
activities would be used to support this effort by, for example, financing
the development of pilot schemes for community-based distribution of
non-prescriptive contraceptives through village health workers.
PART V -- LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Lesotho and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately.
63.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be the
establishment of the Special Account; the establishment of the Project
Advance Account, with an initial deposit of M 100,000; establishment of the
Imprest Account (para. 58); and effectiveness of Irish and EEC co-financing
(para. 51).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 1, 1985



-22-                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A 8 L C 3A
LESOTIID               - SOCIAL INOICATOBS DATA SNERT
LESOTIIO                             BEFINCE GROUPS (<lC'mwE D AVERAGE) ja
HOST                (MHST RECEWr UTIMATE) b
RECEINT      HIDDLR INMs            HINDUI DDUc
160h      1,,gtk7D0  ESTDIATiLk   APRICA S. OP 8AHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAT
MMA (COUSAND  Q. n)
TOTAL                                30.4       J0.4         30.4
AGRICULTURAL                         26.5       24.2         23.0
CaP PI CAPITA CUSS)                     50.0      110.0        510.0           1112.9                   1149.6
lmnc   COIsIUT0R  MR1 CAPTA
(KILOGRAMS or OIL EQUIVALENT)          ..         ..           ..            529.0                    621.1
POPDATIOM AM ViTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.IID-YEAR (THOUSUM)       669.0     1061.0       1404.0
URAN POPULATtON (C OP TOTAL)          1.5        2.6         12.7             29.7                     46.2
POPULATION PRO3ECTIONS
POPULATIO  IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              2.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                6.S
POPULATION HOMKENTM                                         1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IQ.                        28.6       35.0         45.2             S5.6                     36.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             30.5       43.8         59.7            111.5                    461.7
POPULATION ACE STRUCrURE (I)
0-14 YRS                          38.6       40.0         41.3             45.4                     43.6
15-64 YRS                        5S.9         55.7         54.9            Sl.7                      53.1
65 AND ABOVE                        4.1        6.3          4.1             2.9                       1.3
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                               1.S        2.0          2.3              i.B                      2.8
URBAN                               7.1        7.5         15.4             S.2                       4.5
CRUDE 51RTH RATE (PER THOUS)         42.4       42.4         42.4             47.0                     40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         23.1       19.7         14.8             IS.2                     11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6        2.8          2.7              3.2                      2.6
FArILY PLANNING
ACCEPrORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)            ..
USERS (Z oF MARRIED WIOEN)           ..         ..          5. /             ..                      22.2
POWD AM NUIrrIO
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. Pm CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       104.0       94.0         84.0            91.6                      97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Or
CALORIES (C oZ  REQUIRaEXTS        95.0       91.0        111.0             98.2                    110.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          66.0        63.0         75.0            56.7                      70.1
OF WHICH ANDTUL AND PULSE        15.0       13.0         14.0 I           17.0                     17.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          29.0       24.0         17.0             I6.7                     14.6
HEALTII
LIFE EXPECT. AT SIRTH (YEARS)       42.5        46.5         52.7            51.7                      57.5
INFANT NORT. RATE (PEP TROUS)       137.0      119.0         94.0           102.7                     101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                                .         3.0         17.0 fd         35.6                      59.7
URSAN                               ..       100.0         65.0 7jd        54.1                      84.5
RURAL                                          1.0         14.0 A          27.3                      38.4
ACCESS ro ENcRETA DIsposAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        11.0        13.  d
URBAN                               ..        44.0         51.0  d           ..                        ..
RURAL                                .        10.0         12.0 7..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          23490.0    30310.0      18640.0 C        11945.3                   4345.1
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON            6540.0 A   3010.0       433f0           2246.9                   133.1
POP. PER HOSPIrAL BED
TOTAL                             690.0      570.0        490.0 1t         986.9                    632.9
U414A                              70.0      100.0        200.0 7          368.7                    545.5
IURAL                             980.0      730.0        580.07c         4012.1                   2513.5
A N'51NS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         ..         20.0  j            ..                     26.2
AVERACE SU1E OF NOUSENOLO
TOTAL                                ..         ..3
URM                                 ..4                                      *-                        *-
RURAL                               ..          ..          3.9               .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROGI
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URN                                  ..         ..
RURAL                               ..          ..           ..               ..                       .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DEIINGL)
TOTAL                                ..         ..           ..               ..                     46.2
URBAN                                ..         ..           ..               ..                     77.7
RURAL                                ..         ..           ..               ..                    1.1



-23-                                       ANNEX 1
TABLE  3                            Page 2 of 5
lIESOlO                - OCIAL INDICATRS MA ST
LESOTH                              RERECE GRWOS (EIGHTED AVERAGs) p
MO1T                (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) fb
xrCN          nInDDL ItEm            NtIDBL INONS
nsoLk      ,970il    EsTiMAT     AURIUCA S. or SAHA     P. APRICA & MID EAST
ADJUSrED ENROLLNIIT RATLOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   63.0        90.0       104.0 ft         91.0                     88.3
MALZ                    63.0       71.0         84.0 f          90.3                    102.5
FEtALE                 102.0      109.0        123.0 7f         73.6                     73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   3.0         7.0        17.0 If 27.4                             43.0
MAIL                     3.0        6.0         33.0 i          23.7                     52.3
FIIALE                  4.0         7.0        20.0 Zf          14.8                     33.0
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDRY)          22.6        8.4          S.l /f          5.3                     10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0        46.0        49.0 /f         38.6                     30.3
SECONDARY                         20.0        22.0        21.0 7j;        24.3                     23.1
ADULT LITCRACY RATE CE)               ..         ..         53.0            35.6                     43.5
can
PASSEECER CAIL/THOUSANl POP          3.0        2.0          Z.4 Le         20.7                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND FOP         *.6        6.7         22.4           100.8                    138.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..         ..           ..            18.5                     46.1
ENDSPAPER ("DAILY CENEL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             ..          ..         1.0 .A,        17.2                     31.2
CINt  ANNUAL ATTERDANCE/CAPITA        ..         ..           ..             0.3                      1.7
LABOR PCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THWS)           487.0      570.0        718.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 4S.3         U.3         63.5            33.6                     10.6
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             93.0        90.0        87.0            57.1                     42.4
INDUSTRY cPESCElNT)                2.0         3.0         4.0            17.4                     27.9
PARMTCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TIrOAL                            56.1        53.7        51.1            36.3                     26.2
MALE                              62.2        60.3        58.1            47,6                     46.4
FDIALE                            50.1        67.2        66.2            25.1                      5.8
ECONONIC DEPENDOENCT RATIO           0.6        0.8          0.9             1.4                      1.8
tlMM BDISTRI_UTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICGEST 51 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
RICHEST 202 OP HOUSEHOLDS           ..
LOWEST 20 OF HIOUSEWLDS             ..
LOWEST 6o0 OF HOUSEIOIDS           ..
ESrTIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOE
LEYEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       304.0 /f        525.3                    274.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       253.0 7F        249.0                    177.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       113.0 /f       467.4                     602.6
RURAL                                .         ..        113.0 7         186.0                    284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                               ..          ..        50.0 If
RURAL                               ..          ..        35.0              ..
.NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APMICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicacor are population-uetghted arithmetic setns.  Coerage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb  Unlesa otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data For 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Host Recent Estisate" between 1980 and 1982.
fc  1977; /d 1975; Ie 1962; if 1979; I& 1978.
JUNE, 1984



- 24-                                                                            ANNEXi1
Page 3 of`5
isl . Atlmicim     to. ii  *cm     12 416  dW1 lis    e  hss   eilt    tuned       d  'in  Iei tall i  sId  Istltta  II eeel  ss ...Ited ..      flee  lime se    ,   nl         eeewesl
delslIb   mr.rmM   at. meaaiiea.t l.ise  ble.. sled-tob slmaeslrie  matl   sealitemsa                       e`sse  oame else.           t                - t.          . ~'fo-P
attsilM it..  I- eams ea.sleEn  ir.   deli In  edesns   Cli peteh.lls   aenewli srilmlIt  -me  tr   - mit 1.1551.  ad et -I ii  Pfti  isteIrt ii Ina  -PsenI.  1
dEd  b-r isle    am.ee  INOllimr.  seem   Elm. etearsa  ii  Po remteis  seed  en  led            .lssredepid  -  eta esseaIlel  atde    i   s  eslse    wae.                          eb
simFlome  I.Omss    eee   tsm   edreeI   sen.te.srma*astsee   ntnee   else  missar e   selrsIe   me s2 lissem                                                                   c  s-lir     oW
ismcsd q.     l11dmddb
N  ;5  FIIIse sstra          r-eerr Ce..e..                                 i..                 ~f                     jP       e    lr        e      h.IE 4,4 s.as   at  Pcsa.......
15e5 sea is..             ...ees..                                                            Peesterea    ear lepI.ih 4          qs9  .nn    red                  = &::- en Ielt s.
51MVE                                                                                                                         t0l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rie.sl .rl di e i ti rseee ea.l it lesplet bed
II.tflSS.lhzM   -al  pr  -rls  esssema   rsmt. ereplseareal   tpt Is sed-w.    "plsels isesitdapsfiei1mr1e 
eiseIseitIFe.          nemesis.  sEmdairdI                   ie   lm-Cbse'rtk  is   eerlai.  inpEsimst  asahi                                                        t Cieee  mrepeIt  s.Lt1a
'nan5  elPm~~~~~ a    mm: date.                                                  '.,~~~~- 5n   :. ieee  en    4emlais. qckeIe   reenip lemell  sasaih.  
"M           4""I d.    P                                                                o~~~~~~~~~ee aeci iiddo., EeriE bihlala beme  uhisd  n
114i,t11              m     e.   ie  msrdo..1siese   tca.mekr                                           senam.  a .  evti   ir   siketa-l.almesssmdli -se
wed  sieatee   elsirlese   IsCt iirs   .~eeelilr lssCa    Fec . eeI.,  sI.pyad  I                      I .114tesa    Pems  te.  HeIms..11OW
littad olm Ws .                                                                               MhyimttenlitA      ina   ssn W                         dueia   nerJspsi
..-t -1 P.   ~      ~      Idelk  pm.mle                              eleiam    .seees5eae'      dsdel   iisaeIlEs ser
ame.:: anne-ee   lit. Intl11 sad I      lea   *as                                                        mm  es.ea.   cre   es   sn1sra
kmnie mita    -R.s  -e -rrm                 1 - ma  Pln Sjllasrs                   bmeR
-.me-. Th    eare.er  tat I tere.      e   en    e.         P.s e...ee   smt                           allem.ta. P.Cdella    tmslnel
aesemn  delme  CslerlmIr selrdlCIal.eie    a-Ime-psi  laSi
pmle.ma petFreer.   Is.-' c-aselm  m el.e-  -esises:`l 1rl:ee. em
dibee-si   ra   e    l   ere t   tM   te   eemarras.si   erlsllee.
~ leiher  sa- aed eIeeeelm    .eemee                                            Pcicc  remi  - nsea    me- ~.. lssee- a....raml. ee.  e -Itme)
rse~~~~Kami.esep     laa tela.   amI  cat--ap.-l-     IellIeerm  ee                                            tilIi:% er-peer   sa                      eelsiea   ep     e
reee hre  isemaeemlr  .ssCe  t  eplremms   aidlis                         pIer   iel.C-e..  ermaem   rreel,  rrIdmarknere ssi  -m
repeisrmsmseime. It   te 5leCmmet.s. te hrer  eesee   l-l'             satsbeemalaledleadeerePt               Iemlinat     .rl -y -me alie   ts
eqs   - imdam  rl.Ie  s   me-lr   .em.reesI.iSl.                                              .earrmm'  mme.meIeee   e-elemse   e-dlPstIn
ataae    te e. i ar.   mi   -talr    m        Pm--I- le-     aelisi   e   meaes.   il      r    e-  I   i-I.  tmes   rmls
,oele  sIt_nralCe   *hmemeE-eleEs*etrtella Iale er                                                         eed
)lte llte ettnsa  am. ilie .11remeaem memm.sa                               sei..e:ermet.;e.                                                sehm.-n .eeaeemmermec
P. .-Ill   -1   -1   I.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  teeM                                             maee   pemdpla,ie   mle.
frane -s l.sel.e-Iee   ee.isslrleplr .e  eeae.Iarseeme.                      relae  rerm.  -ee meml.Celr.-mtrIsnl ePrmlre  .
bmclIeesa15    .reeelm.    lrll. .                           1 P..aaili'elmeasllI   i  .  Ieeim   iermlaermt    ae    r
em   seelr1welrpai.Ie   esbersiSmml.5                                                                       -   ae    e  mem
nlan   la rlmsrsmsI m  eta    etjI   emmeeed ia ee I-.  t etaenran.elaeae.eieesierr.i.re   l sl.eedmre -  eratsese    meelellen
eiee   ls rar   eeieI    . Earm.iri.iiCa  et  .aa-                             mrss  ete.s~     asais.-  ms"   rsre  slh   rl
eta _ se.eaes    mlII    sa    erpiP em                                t    ep±mireh-ee    rI   eeee                                           teredr ..Iems e.-                          I=
sleerd. eel. i-Sm.                                         remesicesrine reels - erseare  ahi se¶mlSara - 'elaC  cesasece ant-in era I.~~
n.eV 1iee . i Pn, we_1mil.AdI  IEre  ratr2-  iaees  C-Ilie                                                                                 .....e l   em rms    Po alcee
..adr  tnn~InW - sad5C.mIs
yi.a Im.c  a  telll  me.eee-Pmdes1-e-erIe.be-a-nh                                                amnra
beieel    atrlCe   egcme             mels  pIrlil-jmdrerPeessIbe  mr eeemasmeaIet-Peemsrre.ereIes
psemerie  eeme ser irea-e  -       P.ba-aer.la.e.  ia-.....a.i.a.ree   asieu     ...e. Pereseesa - ,PoeEte   sen-den                                                                  
lealnis    atsn-a.   ee-..       nrmsj                                                       -Iieeed  ed   le   .e..era a    eter  msePr5lrasee  tcee
bedsklel serlrrehemal- -e-l   m-Clreeepc-l'-..mes  itmI-                           m   ee1.  ttrmde   te  eeas   at  -   ir  atPeelasem    i
peelplmmIe    Cs    st.ed11   ae                                                                            msel   blliderst
PeelekIr    c   leeml-ami    er.   eeelsieetedea                                                         tpm-er   sem.ae.mr.as  eC-I   mrrr    e    taarV
eepeaete;  ebe. tllm  a-Id mtds.ierlpk  tlteeeadrpe5i-    miieairlseI   ees
raIte%     annaPer    srs    .-r   tdehe.esemlha                                                           n  -s   c    e   nyn.ai   s5es   a   i5-eest   le,



- 25 -
Ann- I
Population             * 1.44 million  mild-1983)
GCP per Capita in 191  S81470
LI3O!3C - sconolbc Indicatora
Amount                                                        Share of GDP at Market Prices (8)
(million US$                    Annual Growth Rate (M1                   (at current prices)
Indicator                 at current pricea)                                                         - -------- - ------ - --------
1903/34            1980/81  1981/82  1982/33  19B3/84               1974/75  1980/81  1993/34
National AccOunts
_________________
Grois Domestic Product  a/    376.0                  8.4      -0.3     -3.6      -1.4              100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                   54.1               -16.0      -1.8     -5.7        -                37.8      23.1      19.5
Induatry                      24.7                10.0     -6.4      -7.4        -                 7.7      13.9       8.6
services                     206.5                26.6       4.9      7.8        -                54.5      63.0      71.9
Consumption                    814.4                11.6      13.2      5.6       3.1              166.0    167.1    216.6
Gross Invajtmant               126.7                12.0      -2.3     -3.2      -4.4               17.7      39.8      33.7
Exports of CUFS                 39.6                -0.4    -19.1    -15.8    -26.4                 14.4      19.9      10.5
Imports of GNFS                604.7                 9.3      13.7      5.6      21.4               99.1    126.8    160.8
Groom National Savings          85.7                -6.2    -51.4      -3.3      72.0               29.9      21.5      24.7
Groes National Product         797.1                 4.6       8.0      9.9       1.4
Government Finance
Central Government (1933/84)
(U million)          I of GNP
Current Recelpts (incl grants)           177.4                19.4
Current Expenditures                     141.5                15.5
Current Account Surplus/Deficit           359                 3.9
Capital Expenditures                      57.8                 6.3
Overall Deficit                          -21.9                -2.4
Financing of the Deficit
External Borrowing                      2935                 3.2
Douestic Borrowing                      -7.6                -0.8
Money, Credit and Prices
1930     1961      1962      1983
Honey and Quasi-Honey                    117.1    144.9    185.4    219.3
Bank Credit to Government (net)           22.8      51.1     65.4      68.0
Bank Credit to the Private Sector         26.1      43.3     54.1      S3.5
r                                                  Percentage and Index Numbers
Honey and Quasi-Money as e of CDP         36.1      40.7      48.3     50.8
Consumer Price Index                     100.0    110.2    124.1    142.6
Annual percentage change In
Consumer Price Index                    16.S      10.2      12.6     14.9
Bank Credit to Government                        124.1     28.0       4.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     67.8     23.5      -1.1
a/ components expressed at factor cost
EARSA
February 1985



- 26 -                                  ANNEK I
Page 5 of 5
l3IE PA 1S AND CAPImA FW
BLANE OF PATIS
1980   1981   1982    1983   MiCWAui          EaKS 1982
WRi1i-usms)                                WS$ mltllim    Z
Exports of goods & servLce   360.2  383.4  431.0   486.5  Dlamond                    15.3    39.1
of which: Merdalse f.o.b  59.9   51.2   37.5    23.2  Wool                           4.7    12.0
ImOpats of goods & services  484.3  522.4  513.3   566.6  Mohair                      4.7    12.0
of widhd: Merdaaise f.o.b. 426.6  458.0  451.4   500.7  Others                      14.4    36.8
Net Transfems                81.7   65.4   41.3    59.0  Total                       39.1   1WO.C
Qirrent acro'mt balance     -42.4  -73.6  -41.0   -21.1
Effl  EMT, 1MM          31, 1983
Private diect investmst       4.5    4.8    3.9       4.5
Official grant aid           3D.8   24.1    9.2       9.0                              US$ Million
M & LT loom (net)             31.1   31.4   25.2    23.4
Offiial                     31.1   31.4   25.2    23.4
Private                     -       -       -       -    Public Debt Ind. guaranteed   145.2
&wr-Term loans (net)         30.0   21.4  -11.0       3.8   lguaranteed Private Debt
Errors amd ODnessics         -9.9   -4.4   22.2        7.0  Total Oatataridg & Dllsbrsed   145.2
O2isge in Reserve            44.1   -3.7   -8.5   -26.5
inccease)                                            Debt Service Ra:ios for 1983 1I
Interratioval reserves       49.4   46.2   47.1    73.1                                        2
of wch Gold                 -       -       -
Reserves as mu th inports      1.2    1.1    1.1       1.6
1980   1981   1982    1983
1morandum Itemr                                             Public Debt rix. guarnte            1.1
Current A/C Balance 2 of GMP  -7.8  -11.4   -5.2    -2.3  Ncrgaranteed Private Debt
Total Ontstaiding & Dlsbirsed      1.1
Pates      cBe IRD/MAL ltiding as of Decelier 31, 1984 (US$ Mlioi)
13hRD    mD
US$/Kaloti                                          Outstandirg and DLsbhrse              -      53.51
1980    1.2854                                              Undisb                               -      28.79
1981    1.1490                                              Oatstandirg Inc. Urldisbrsed                82.3D
1982    0.9228                                                                                          -
1983    0.8991
1984    0.6954
not available                                                                                  EAlSA
Februaty 1985
1/ Total debt service as percet of exports of goods and services



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
A.  STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as at September 30, 1984)
Amount (less cancella-
tions, terminations)
US$ Million
Credit       Year       Borrower       Purpose                  Credit       Undisbursed
Six credits are fully disbursed                                 29.79             -
795-LSO      1978       Lesotho       Basic Agricultural
Services                6.00            2.38
884-LSO      1979       Lesotho        Third Highway             9.00            4.13
887-LSC      1979       Lesotho       Water Supply               6.00            1.70
985-LSO      1980       Lesotho       Second LNDC                4.00            2.97
1036-LSO     1980       Lesotho       Urban Development          6.00           2.29
1148-LSO     1981       Lesotho       Third Education           10.00           3.47
Total                                 70.79          16.94
of which has been repaid               0.53
Total now held by IDA                 70.26
of which undisbursed                  16.94
Notes: (1)  The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
(2) A US$15.2 million credit for the Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1481-LSO)
became effective on November 13, 1984; and a US$10 million credit for
the Fourth Education Project (Cr. 1512-LSO) became effective on
March 13, 1985.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30, 1984)
Investment                                                         (USS Million)
No.              Year      Type of Business            Loan         Equity       Total
405-LSO             1978       Lesotho Quality
Aggregate (PTY) Ltd.      299,000       31,000    330,000
Total Gross Commitments  299,000        31,000    330,000
Less: Cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and
sales
Total now held by IFC    299,000        31,000    330,000



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Two years
(b) Project prepared by: Government assisted by Bank staff and
advisors provided by Irish Government
(c) Appraisal: September 1984
(d) Negotiations: March 1985
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1985
_I.    Special IDA Implementation Action
(a) Retroactive financing of US$75,000 for designs and tender
documents (para. 55);
(b) Establishment of Special Account to be financed from credit
proceeds (para. 58).
tIII   Special Conditions
(a) Government to revise the National Formulary by December 31, 1985
and introduce new formulary effective 1986/87 financial year
(para. 24);
(b)  Government to rationalize structure of charges for family planning
services by July 1, 1986 (para. 30);
(c)  Government to submit to IDA by March 31, 1986 for review and
comment a plan of action for raising cost recovery in health
services based on health financing study report (para. 32);
(d) Government to carry out a mid-term review of the project in
financial year 1987/88 (para. 56).



i    '8  '  _   /       i   _J                        711"OD                         '2"'10-
MAMAI   )          d^WS-s            
_I        *-"*''"/1-1s                                                         /--Vo             \
;LIl A           /WR                                                             EBHo LAv
C- X~~N
mc  '''" ';''''' S                   E;=Kt    X                                      <W-                       g
trlAI    N G           ,                                                                aEMONG KON d> ~~~~~~ERIE  '
*- .,  OAEHOK ... ....................../-. VAH' E
L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                             tB ,S
~~%   ol rss        @1 GhSd              -      oO Ar./.l
,.                                R U  
t >;.,,  o7ii
.      ~ ~~-\-"UTIGMO                 THI  
3s,- s1,              A                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta
mot-\                         _sf                              '     r w          r-r    :
|  r ri  ~rb rard r 
NI .,,ID



IBRI 18638
2~~~ur                      W30                                     WOOL ES   TH 
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
?0     I?       20       30      40
w                                                          KILOMETERS
'V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
INA~K
Fl.....HEALTH SERVICE AREAS (HSA):
\~~K~~>    -f-'o     s-                    ROMA0 ~~~~~~~HEALTH FACILITIES-
,;,,    X    ,obck g                                 k           O          CLINICS:
,,0rw   ° ..   ORURAL CLINICS
kr,    O   A  91I A, WS                 ,.K        -      ~       0           RURAL CLINICS TO BE UPGRADED UNDER PROJECT
'/ . oeI.he                  J                     0. l   /    TB CLINICS TO BE ATTACHED TO HSA HOSPITALS UNDER PROJECT
,,  L.....t -<    v           I                                    FItTER CLINICS To BE ATTACHED TO HSA HOSPITALS UNDER PROJECT
V'-          RURAL CLINICS OF LESDTHO FLYING DOCTORS SERVICES (LFDS)
0     0    HEAITH ORGANIZATIONS
QACHA'S NEK
In MnPnl..Io-  4                                                   2 WAY RADIO COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
1      PHASE I INSTALLATIONS
2      PHASE tl INSTALLATIONS
3      PHASE III INSTALLATIONS UNDER PROJECT
-t     AIRSTRIPS IAPPROXIMATE LOCA71ONSI
PAVED ROADS IEXIS7ING AND/OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION)
ELEVATIONS IN METERS-
2.750 AND ABOVE
2.500  2.750
2.000  2.500                                                       30.30
- lntfr P. l        01 Ds d f_l s P..  *                              TOWNS
---   R S_ #a..IS.'0_. O' enS    9fIV  tdbl-Rn~0 0
DV.   it0R..S a- -  aw.r  Co       t  a"Afll                       RIVERS
- -  tV00e - a.. nmsW    .bt' of_ .al' ba
--- --  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
72900                                    29r30'                                    3000
JANUARY 1985






