Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA. /SrSXS
Report No. 5437-LSO
STAFF APPRAISAL RErORT
LESOTHO
HEALTH ANI POPULATION PROJECT
April 1, 1985
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distr-bulion and may be used b! recipients onh in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY LUNIT                               Maloti
US$1                                        M 1.98
1 Maloti                                    US$0.51
FISCAL YEAR
GOL Fiscal Year                         April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AfOB      -          African Development Bank
BCG       -           Bacillus Calmet Guerin
CCCD      -          Combatting Childhood Communicable Diseases
CPR       -          Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CRS       -          Catholic Relief Services
CSO                  Central Statistics Office
DFM       -          Decentralized Financial Management
DHS       -          Director of Health Services
DMOR      -          District Medical Officer of Health
DPT       -           Diptheria, Pertussis, Tetanus
EEC       -          European Economic Communities
FNCO      -          Food and Nutrition Coordination Office
GOL       -          Government of Lesotho
RC        -          Health Clinic
HEU       -           Health Education Unit
HPSU      -          Health Planning and Statistics Unit
USA       -           Health Service Area
IEC       -           Information, Education and Communication
IVS       -           International Volunteer Services
LDA       -           Tesotho Dispensary Association
LDTC      -          Lesotho Distance Teaching Center
LFDS      -          Lesotho Flying Doctors' Service
LFNC      -          Lesotho Food and Nutrition Council
LPPA      -          Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association
MCH/FP    -          Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MOB       -          Ministry of Health
Mow       -          Ministry of Works
NC        -           Nurse Clinician
NDSO      -          National Drug Stockpile Organization
NHTC      -          National Health Training Center
PCM       -          Protein-Calorie Malnutrition
PHAL      -          Private Health Association of Lesotho
PHC       -          Primary Health Care
PVPS      -          Plant and Vehicle Pool Service
QE II     -          Queen Elizabeth Hospital II
RNI       -          Rate of Natural Increase
RSA       -          Republic of South Africa
SCF       -          Save the Childrcn Fund
SOE       -          Statement of Expenditure
STD       -          Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TA        -          Technical Assistance
TB        -          Tuberculosis
TFR       -          Total Fertility Rate
UNIPAC    -          United Nations Children's Fund Supply Division,
Packing and Assembly Centre
VJW       -           Village Health Workers
WAHU      -           Ministry of Works Architects' Branch health Unit
WDO       -          World Development Report
WFP       -          World Food Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate               Number of births per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Crude Death Rate               Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Rate of Natural Increase       Rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to a surplus
or deficit) of births over deaths, expressed
as a percentage of the base population.
Rate of Population Growth      Rate of Natural increase adjusted for (net)
migration, expressed as a percentage of the
total population in a given year.
Fertility                      Actual reproductive performance of an
individual, a couple, a group, or a
population.
Total Fertility Rate           Average number of children that would be born
alive to a woman (or group of women) during
her lifetime if she were to pass through her
childbearing years conforming to the age-
specific fertility rates of a given year.
Incidence                      Number of cases of a given disease which come
into being during a specified period of time,
that is the frequency of events, usually
expressed as the number of cases per
specified unit (e.g., 1,000) population.
Infant Mortality Rate          Number of deaths of infants under one year of
age in a given year per 1,000 live births in
that year.
Child Mortality Rate           Number of deaths in children one to four
years of age per 1,000 children one year of
age in a given year.
Life Expectancy at Birth       Average number of years an infant will live
if the current age-specific mortality trends
prevailing at the time of birth were to
continuiie.
Contraceptive Prevalence       The percentage of married women in the
Rate                           reproductive ages who are using a modern
method of contraception at any given point in
time.
This report is based on findings of an Appraisal Mission comprising
Messrs. V. Kumar, H.W. Franckson, J.P. Mullan, Miss H. Idea (IDA) and Dr.
M. Labbok (consultant) which visited Lesotho in September 1984. Mr. E.M.
Schebeck participated in concluding discussions.



LESOTHO:  HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
COUNTRY DATA AT A GLANCE1/
1. Basic
Area                                                30,350sq.km.
Pepulation de facto (1983 estimate based on
1976 census)            1,400,000
(1991 estimate)                1,728,858
de jure (1983 estimate based or,
1976 census)            1,570,000
Population Density                                  46/sq .km.
Rural populatior.                                   87%
Crude birth rate                                    42/1000
Crude death rate                                    15.0/1000
Population growth rate                              2.82/
Life expectancy at birth:           male            51 years2/
female          55 yearst/
Infant mortality rate                               97/1000
Maternal mortality ir institutions!l000 live
births                                            3.7%
Adult literacy rate                                 52%
Primary school enrolme-t (grades 1-7 of age
group 5-15 years)                                 48%
GNP per capita (1983)                               US$510
Sex ratio, de jure)                                 93
) males to 100 females
de facto)                               76
Childrer. below 5 (1983)                            16%
below 15 (1983)                           41%
Population density, lowlands                        98/sq.km.
highlar.ds                     20/sq.km.
2. Geography and Topography
Altitudes range                                     1,500-3,400m.
Arable land                                         13%
Rainfall, lowlacds                                  800 mm. p.a.
highlands                                 1000 mm. p.a.
Mear. maximum temperature, Maseru, January          300C
Maseru, June            17°C
Mear. minimum temperature, Maseru, January          140C
Maseru, June            -10C
1/ Source:  Country Resource Utilizatior. Rev'ew (WHO - November 1983'
tJ Source: WDR 1984



(ii)
3. Health Service Coverages
Health Center                                       1/12,000 population
General Hospital                                    1/76,000 population
Referral Hospital                                   1/1,400,000 population
Hospital beds  total                                1/561 population
general                             1/775 population
specialist                          1/2 037 population
Doctors (1983)                                      1/10,000 population
All health service personnel (1982)                 1/2 100 population
Deliveries under skilled attendance                 40%
Children between 1 and 2 years of age,
fully immunized                                   40%
BCG                                           81%
DPT 3 doses                                   56%
Polio 3 doses                                 54%
Measles                                       49%



LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Kingdom of Lesotho
Amount:               SDR3.7 million (US$3.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Project Description: The project aims to strengthen the organization and
management of the Ministry of Health; improve the
efficiency, effectiveness and coverage of health care
and family planning services; and strengthen manpower
development and training. It would: provide
technical assistance and equipment for strengthening
the organization, financial and personnel management,
iaformation and communications systems in the Ministry
of Health; provide buildings, equipment and facilities
for improving and expanding the MCH/fauily planning
services and TB control program; improve and expand
local manufacture and distribution of drugs; and
provide technical assistance, fellowships, buildings
and facilities for manpower planning and staff
training.
Benefits and Risks:  Improvements in the pharmaceutical supply system, TB
treatment program and provision of low-cost
out-patient treatment facilities would result in
savings of about M880,000 (US$550,000) annually in the
cost of providing health care services. The
MCH/family planning component would lead to lower
fertility levels and also morbidity and mortality
rates among infants and mothers. The health financing
study is expected to lead to improved cost-recovery in
the Ministry of Health.
The project's major risks relate to the training
component, which would involve creation of a new
insticution; and to the family planning component,
because of the present heavy reliance on church
clinics. Technical assistance to be provided under
the project would mirimize the first risk, and the
second by a strong information, education and
communication prograi. to stimulate acceptance of, and
demand for, family planning services.



Project Cost:
Local   Foreign  Total
------US$ million---
Ministry of Health Org. & Management           0.124    0.789   0.913
Health & Family Planning Services              0.459    1.453   1.912
Pharmaceutical Supply System                   0.122    0.573   0.695
Manpower Development                           0.564    1.622   2.186
Total Base Cost                             1.269    4.437   5.706
Contingencies:  Physical                       0.075    0.240   0.315
Price                         0.386    1.011   1.397
Total Project Cost                          1.730    5.688   7.418
Taxes and Duties                       (0.183)      --  (0.183)
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                              3.50
Irish Government                                                 1.12
EEC                                                              0.74
DANIDA                                                           0.37
WHO                                                              0.19
USAID                                                            0.15
UNDP                                                             0.07
GOL                                                              1.28
7.42
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
IDA FY             86    87    88    89    90
----US$ million-------
Annual             0.25  0.35  0.60  1.00  1.30
Cumulative         0.25  0.60  1.20  2.20  3.50
Map No. IBRD-18638



LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND
A. Geographic and Socio-Economic Situatior. ...................   1
B. Demographic Situatior ...........V.....                 ... ....   2
C. Populatior. Policy .................................................    3
II.   THE HEALTH POPULATION AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A. Health and Nutritior. Status ...............................    4
B. Health and Nutrition Policy ..       .................... O-* ......   5
C. Organization and Management ..............................    6
I)- Health Facilities *--.------ .....----.-                          8
E. Health Manpower and Trainin.g .       .............................  10
F. Major Health Programs ..................   ............... .   11
G. Health Expenditures and Financing ............           ........  14
H. External Assistance ....       ..................................   16
I. Role of the Barnk  ..........................................   17
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Strategy, Desigr. and Stacus of Preparatior .........  18
B. Objectives and Targets .....            ................................ .  18
C. Project Composition ...... ...*      .............................   19
D. Detailed Project Description ........ ................ ......  22
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A. Project Costs          .............................................  32
B. Financing        .....                                 ......  36
C. Procuremert .........................  ..................... .  37
D. Disbursements .......                                 .........  39
E. Accounts and Audit .... ....... 40
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Orga-izatio- and Management         ..................  41
B. Civil Works .................  -0..   43
C. Consultant Services .    . ...........43
D. Monitoring, Evaluatior., Reporting..                          .   44
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Be-.efirs .............*.  ...O.44
B. K:sl...  45
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                      . . . 46



(ii)
TABLES
1.    Alternative Projections of Population Size and Growth .........  48
2.    1981-1983 Top Ten Out-Patient Illnesses .......................      49
3.    Causes of Hospital Admittance for Children....................  50
4.    Leading Ten Causes of Inpatient Mortality, 1983.................   51
5.    Population and Beds by Dist,ict, 1982.........................  52
6.    Health Personnel by District, December 1983 ...................  53
7.    Health Expenditure Indicators...........  54
8.    MOH Recurrent and Developmental ExpendIturesem.......oe......        55
9.    Projected Recurrent Expenditures on COL Health Services .......  56
10.   Projected Available and Required MHOR Recurrent Funds d.oo.e....   57
11.   Project Financing Arrangementes..oo........s........ee.......   58
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursementsu.........                        59
ANNEXES
I.    Job Description of Key Health Personnel....... ..-............  60
II.   Project-Financed Training. .................... ................  62
III.  Technical Assistance-.. ............           ............*... , 67
IV.   Detailed Cost Tablc8 .......................................  68
CHARTS
Chart 1   Organization of the MKO ...............................  73
Chart 2   Additional Staff Requl.. .....  74
Chart 3   implementation Schedule..h.e.dl. .  ...... ...oU.O***O  *  75
MAP
1.    Health Facilities in Lesotho ................... *...... IBRD-18638



1.  BACKGROUND
A.  Geographic and Soclo-Economic SiLuation
1.01        Situated  in the zoutheastern part of che African  continenLt  and
entirely surrounded by the Republic of South Afrlcu (RSA), the Kingdom ot
Lesotho is one of the smallest (30,352km2 in area) and least developed
countries in the region.  'Thrce-quarters of the country conasists of
highland areas higher than 2,400m in altitude.  The trerrain ts rugged, soll
erosion io exLensive and only aboutc  13: of the land  im suitable for crop
production.  The rest c.tn only support livestock (c;attle, iheep, goat,. :rnd
pigs).  The Basotho population, vstimated at 1.4 million  in 1983. Is 87%
rural, ethnically homogcnr'ous and :apeak a common language, Svsotho.
1.02        The country's economv Is highly dependent on the RSA.  Over hall
of the male labor force (ibo(ut 170.00O workers) Is employed in the RlSA
(abotit 120,000 in mininy). and 1heirt- remittances constitute  over 40Z of
Lesotho's (NP.  The S!outhern Atrica Customs lUnion tormed  by Botswann.
1cssotho, Swaziland and the KSA provides over 7(J% of the Income of the
Government nf Lesotho  (160L).  flvcr '35. of the country's lmports o.iginate
_n Llte RSA. while  It-s exports tithe-x  are destine' for the RISA or arc
transferred  to  the rest of th, w<rId throigh RSA ports.
i.c'3       The absener trnm  the cOuntry  of a large proportion  -f th.e ma:v
labor ?orce has tar--re.achinp e. Ic te   on the country's socio-economir
1,1 ri c.  . lAL<)io;h  v tr-aciti'oi mos[ of the 3dh'%, whether absent or
pre..cnt, con(lnue  to 1w  -ici.ardfed .as iads of *au'1lv. women and rmiae
hitldren  aTc unus:ual iv inpant             th.v diomestlc production  proreis.   It
h.A  becn ts' In.ated  tho't ab'iu,t h;b  -: hosu,who;ds   re :lanaged by wci'en  -nd
that a large nuisibc.r ot blv,;             I .st in  igricu:'r1iral wid pastorai ac- lvitire.
mnl*. in .lin arnal hvrrl:lW;.
: . U'.     T    1b , b't1 low  rr tu-n  * r.;  .tl .'g, os  -omlpared to rmploy:el) l  a- .,'t
iave aced  as. a d svr n   I  ia  o ,tI I icici.t farrni'iF and have Indered t"!f
&adO;Itlni! (it  I Iow  irjlit . h. 'r tu:rn, low r-1In  systcm. it rtmltItst i,Xi. a:mui
sI.. r, Of-1Iiti;e 01 the arra  nitider  -tilt  iat ion  (a-inut  !     I ncr  '))
1, I Vs.tock( *  WIt I I    !a  t r;rald It I t. ia.I 1 x ived a mijor           r:. in  i  .'I L;
moe fal  ] I;e tt the coia.iry, I!r -I'Vw'Ld ;t. t ha  moNt relinhbe source
invo'stmerlt a:nd wcalth ar cuntaI.'t Io:l.  Trh  r%pansl)n ol the herc'-; ha! .
co. ;trrIbu?*d tc      out' ''us .   arr.1:  ,: .nd eo:iaequetnt s'o1 cro  lon. i.l!1 *'.
to  tend  tnese herds. Lis  .aii c  lcn tile  Jaill factor responsible  )? t'.f  ;.ir
'.ChoVal txtendaince  1  bovs ';. rurah areAs.
Dur1'   . .r the  i9'''s E. dc'S)iAe  th,. .C-7Untrv 's  1i.ttd leialtu d-.
e;nd: w-nt . Le- thc, 's (.N'  .e  .w a: .ir '     rs ive a;: r.ge  rdt'-  0!      peC .j:,:
I:-. -.';1 : .Vs.   in 'Y'A -  v. u FY'..'" e-  .  t''.e'cr, '.because   t )he thr tr:.. - ;
C: t.ctc t*' wnori:  *. i,   I J" L o   ].'ded t'w   pr,:rIongni drought .rir;
f   g l:).'.    ' t-               -id t1'.1ix  !.arie  -'.x.-,1  -.nc ,-    e ron-a trv.  h   rnru  it .   ^
I' r-' i      was 1  c;:P    z e-        -wed-le *iza.a I c,    k  t:ie -rerail!-',:
ex,-.Int,e ra:"   ..:'  ;ef-r *-i. ;'.l  -     i.a ,c,. rs- t*i---   :l  .Ro;  it S>:



1.06      The slower expansion of the economy was accompanied by increasing
fitscal deficits. These were to a great extent financed by commercial
borrowing, the service of which is placing a heavy burden on the budget.
In 1982/83 and 1983/84 there was noticeable improvement in the fiscal
otLtcoift due to a concerted effort co keep expenditures under control
through a freeze in COL employment and wages and a reduction in public
Investcncnt; further improvement is expected in 1984/85. GOL's revenue
position over the next few years is likely to come under additional strain,
however, as customs revenues decline because of reduced imports in 1983 and
1984 and che removal of che import surcharge.
B. Demographic Situation
A_mo,rnLhic Status
1.07      The mid 1983 de facto population based on the 1976 census was
t* ttLated at 1.4 million. The de 1ure population (which includes migrant
labor) was estimated at 1.57 million.  The estimated crude birth rate is 42
per 1000 and the crude death rate is 15 per 1000 population with a
rei;ulting rate of natural increase (RNI) of 2.76%. Infant :aortality is
e.tImated at 97 per 1000 compared to an average of 140 in sub-Saharan
A2ricja, and life expectancy at birth at 52 years compares favorably with
that In ieighboring countries such as Malawi (44 years) and Zambia (51
years). The high rate of populatior growth has resulted in a young age
strucLure in Lesotho.  Children between 0-14 constitute 41: of the total
population and children aged 0-4, 16.25%.   The urban population is only
about 13S of the total population.
Porulation Projections
I.08BJ    On the basis of past population growth trends, present population
strjecture and assumptions regarding future changes in ftrtility and
mortalitv, three alternative population projections have been prepared for
the period up to the year 2020 (Table 1). Under the assumption that the
tI)to1 fertility rate (TFR) remains at its 1980 level of 5.80 throughouc the
pcriod, the RNI would rise from its present level of 2.76% to 3.62% in
') 15-2020, and Lesotho's population would reach 4.7 million. in 2020.
A&:uming a moderate fertility decline after 1995, as in the standard
projvction for Lesotho in the 1984 World Development Report (WDR), with the
TF1{ falling to 3.0 by 2015-2020. the RNI would be 1.97% In 2015-2020.
resulting in a 2020 population of 3.7 million. More rapid fertility
d.-clInes over the next four .' cades (as in the rapid fertility decline case
*o: the 1984 WDR, with TFR falilng to 2.16 by 2015-2020) would result in an
KNI of 1.11: in 2015-2020, and a considerably lower 2020 population (2.5
mi'llon).  The establishment in thel980s of a successful family planning
prl'graz would increase the likelihood of the second alternative.  The third
_.ternative, which represents a trend similar to the very rapid fertility
"ecsines that occi:rred in a number of noai-African countries (e.g. Thailand,
ard Tndonesia where the drive for 'amily planning was very intense), would
see: to 'ie beyond what could be reasonably expected in Lesotho.



1.09      These projections ludicate that, under any likely fertility
trend, Lesotho faces very rapid population growth, with its population
doubling or tripling in the next 35 years. This will undoubtedly put
considerable stress on both the ecological and socio-economic system of the
country. Employment opportunities in RSA are expected to decline, and the
formal sector of the local economy can absorb only a small fraction of the
yearly increase in the labor force. In 1980, there was about 0.30ha. of
arable land per person. By 2020, even under assumption 3 this figure would
have fallen to 0.16ha., while in the constant fe.tility situation, would be
only .085ha. Health and education services will be similarly strained and
their quality could decline. Specifically, the number of children of
primary school age, (around 210,000 in 1980), will have more than
quadrupled (to over 900,000) in 2020 were fertility to remain constant, and
with a moderate fertility decline would still, at around 594,000, be almost
triple the 1980 figure. Even if future economic growth were to proceed at
a fast rate comparable to that of the period 1960-82 (when per capita GNP
grew at an average annual rate of 6.5%), it would not be easy for Lesotho
to cope with such rapid changes. Particularly since future economic growth
appears unlikely to be this rapid, a slower rate of population growth would
increase the likelihood that economic and social development could keep
pace with the growing needs.
C. Population Policy
1.10      Although GOL has not developed a formal comprehensive national
population policy, it recognizes the severe demographic, economi.. and
geopolitical constraints facing the country. The resolutions of the 1979
National Population Management Conference, policy statements made by the
Prime Minister, and the Third National Plan (1960-85), are explicit on the
importance of family planning and the need to reduce population growth,
although the plan sets no specific targets. The statements on family
planning are in fact stronger than in many other developing countries with
greater experience in family planning and indicate the GOL's determination
to control population growth. The principal strategy for reducing
population growth in the Third Plan is the promotion of family planing (FP)
in the context of maternal and child health care (MCI). The FP program
faces significant constraints, however, both on the side of supply (para.
2.28) and of demand (para. 2.29) and progress is also difficult because of
cultural and religious reasons. GOL is actively seeking to develop a
national system for FP delivery which would include both public and private
hea'lth facilities (para. 2.09). Over the long term, it is expected that
the development of FP services by GOL and the introduction of a strong
information, education and communlcation (IEC) program will encourage
demand for FP services at all health facilities. In the medium term,
however, GOL would need to develop plans for intensified coverage of the
population with easily-accessible family planning services (para. 6.05).



- 4 -
II. THE HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A. Health and Nutrition Status 1,
2.01      Morbidity.  The climate and high altitude (para. 1.01) protect
the population of Lesotho from many endemic tropical diseases. Of
particular significance is the absence of malaria, which is the cause of
substantial morbidity and mortality in most other African countries. Table
2 lists the ten leading causes of morbidity based on initial outpatient
visits at all health facilities during 1981-1983. By fLr the leading cause
of morbidity are diseases of the reeptratory system (mainly infections but
excluding tuberculosis (TB) which is categorized separately) which account
for 22% of all outpatient visits. Other leading causes of outpatient
morbidity are diseases of the digestive system, including diarrhea and
gastroenteritis (15%), diseases of the genito-urinary system including
gonorrhea (15%) and skin diseases (9Z). Diseases of the genito-urinary
system are largely related to sexually transmitted diseases (STD), the
incidence of which is increasing, particularly amongst younger age groups.
The general morbidity pattern reflects some of the problems associated with
migrant laboz, which is believed to play a major role in the transmission
of both STD and TB. Control of these diseases is difficult because of the
lack of effective screening and follow-up programs (para. 2.25).
Diarrheal diseases ar.d skin diseases, which are associated with poor
sar.itary conditions and lack of safe water, account between them for about
14% of all outpatient morbidity. Table 3 shows the causes of hospital
admittance for infants (0-1 yr) and young children (1-4 yrs). Respiratory
diseases and gastro-enteritis accounted for 54Z of infant admission but
only 32% in the older age group. Admissions La the later age group, on the
other hand, are sharply higher for accidents, nutritional deficiencies and
TB.
2.02      Mortality.  As a result of data inconsistencies, a quantitative
analysis of the causes of mortality in child inpatients is not possible.
It is clear from the records, however, that the comnanest causes of death
in infants and young children are gastroentericis, respirat.ory infections,
preventable infectious diseases and malnutrition. For the population in
general, TB was the leading cause of inpatient deaths at 14.6% of all
hospital deaths in 1983 (Table 4). It was followed by intestinal and
gastro-intestinal tract problems (14%), heart and circulatory problems (9%)
and respiratory system infections (7%). TB mortality is three times higher
among n-les than females. TB (27%) and diseases of the heart and
circula-ory system (22%) were the leading causes of mortality in age group
55-74 years.
1/ Data on morbidity and mortalitv should be interpreted with cnution,
given the weaknesses in health information systems (para. 2.11).



-5 -
2.03      Nutrition.  Malnutrition is an important cause of childhood
morbidity and mortality. The 1976 National Nutrition Survey of pre-school
children conducted in collaboration with the University of California, Los
Angeles, indicated that 22.72 of children had stunted growth and were at
high risk for chronic protein-calorie malnutrition, using height for age
below 90% of the internationally accepted refetence value. Twenty-two
percent of young children were underweight using weight for age below 80%
of the internationally accepted reference value and would be classified as
moderately to severely malnourished by the accepted Grmez system.
Approximately 3.4% of young children had body waeting and were at high risk
for acute PCM, using weight for height below 85% of internationally
accepted value and that 25% of children aged 6-60 months were anemic as
defined by WHO criteria. The anemia prevalence rate is high for a country
like Lesotho where hookworm is not a public ht¢ilth problem and implies
considerable anemia among pregnant women and lactating mothers. The
prevalence of malnutrition is subject to significant seasonal variations
arid during the "hungry period' (November-February), the figures increase
by a third. This fluctuation was corroborated by an analysis of the data
collected by Catholic Relief Services (CRS) during 1976-78, through its
pre-school feeding program covering around 60,000 children. It is clear
from the above that Lesotho's primary nutrition problem remains chronic PCM
resulting in visible stunting and wastage. The drought in the past three
years has further exacerbated the problem. Although precise figure are not
available, a significant increase in the cases of kwasiorkor and marasmus
has been reported especially in the inaccessible mountainous areas.
B. Health and Nutrition Pol zy
2.04      Health.  Lesotho inherited at independence a highly centralised
hospital-based health care system. The first two national development
plans focused on expanding the curative system, training of doctors and
nurses, establishing rural clinics for MCi services and setting up an
immunization program. In 1979, near the end of the Second Plan, GOL
adopted Primary Health Care (PEC) as the national strategy for providing
basic health services to the entire population. The goal was to reduce
mortality and morbidity by emphasizing the preventive aspects of health
care and broadening access to curative services. Steps taken include
establishment of a cadre of village bhalth workers (VEWs) to provide PHC
services at village level including FP motivation of village community
members (para. 2.18), expansion of immunization programs (para. 2.24), the
provision of new clinics in under-served mountain areas and the upgrading
of hospitals and clinics (para. 2.17). GOL is also undertaking measures to
develop a national health system which would include the present public and
private health services operating in a coordinated manner; GOL also intends
to improve health system management by decentralization (para. 2.09) and
reorganJzation of MOH (para. 2.06), improvement of drug manufacturing and
supply logistics (paras 2.12, 2.13) and training (para. 2.21). While good
progzess has been made during the Third Plan in many of the above areas,
much still remains to be done, both in these areas and with regard to
manpower development and F? services.



- 6 -
2.05      Nutrition.  During the Second Plan (1975-80), the GOL created the
Lesotho Food and Nutrition Council (LFNC) for overall planning and
coordination. In 1978, a Food and Nutrition Coordination Office (FNCO) was
established to promote domestic food production, to expand nutrition
services in MCH, to continue nutrition surveillance and to increase public
awareness of nutritional needs. Due to internal organizational problems
FNCO was not able to achieve a major breakthrough, though it developed 19
specific project proposals. The Third Plan calls for strengthening the
institutional and policy initiatives begun under the Second Plan. As part
of this effort, MOH will consolidate national nutrition surveillance and
rehabilitation programs.
C. Organization and Management
Ministry of Health
2.06      The Ministry of Health (MOB) has overall responsibility for
determining health policy in Lesotho, for planning and directing the
development of the national health care system, and for the operation of
about half of the country's health care facilities. The organizational
structure of the MOH as revised in 1983 to support the development of PHC
is shown in Chart I. At headquarters, the Permanent Secretary is
responsible to the Minister for the day-to-day operations of MOH. He is
assisted by a Deputy Permanent Secretary, who is responsible for planning
and statistics, training, finance, transport and maintenance, personnel and
communications and by the Director of Health Services (DHS) who coordinates
all MOH health activities. At the central level, the DHS is supported by
senior deputy directors for Mental Health and for the Queen Elizabeth II
Hospital (QE II), and by deputy directors responsible for Disease Control,
Laboratory Services, Health Education, Family Health, Hospital Services,
Drttgs and Medical Supplies, PEC Development and Nursing.
2.07      Administratively, Lesotho is divided into ten districts.  In each
district, a District Medical Officer of Health (DMOH), assisted by a
district health team (which includes a nursing officer, a public health
nurse, a health inspector and hospiLal administrative staff), is
responsible to the DHS for planning, programming, monitoring and evaluating
the overall district health program. Within each district are one or more
Health Service Areas (HSAs' covering both GOL and Private Health
Association of Lesotho (PHAL) fasilities. There are 18 HSAs, five of which
are within the Maseru District. Each HSA contains a general hospital and a
number of health clinics (lCs), and is under the control of a Medical
Director who reports to the DHOH and oversees the functioning of the PHC
system in the HSA. Until 1983, all MOB budgetting and accounting was done
at MOB headquarters. This centralized system became increasingly
inadequate as implementation of PEC required expanded service delivery at
the periphery. Beginning in 1983, therefore, and with the assistance of an
adviser funded by USAID, initial steps have been taken to initiate the
decentralized financial management (DFM) with both budgeting and accounting
being conducted to a much greater extent at the local level. The 1984/85
MOH budget was for the first time drawn up on the basis of HSA submissions.



2.08      HSA staff are responsible for the delivery within the HSA of all
health services, including the implementation of programs such as MCH/FP
(para. 2.23) and EPI (para. 2.24) which were formerly vertical programs.
In districts containing only one HSA, (of which there are 4), the district
and HSA management functions are exercised by a single team. The general
hospital in each HSA, whether public or private, serves as the referral,
technical and administrative management point for all health centers and
associated outstations, public or private, in that HSA. Each general
hospital is the first referral point for HCs in its HSA. In turn, general
hospitals refer serious cases to the QE II. At the village level, village
health committees which are a part of PHC have b' 'n formed to assure active
community participation in health service delivery. A cadre of volunteer
village health workers (VEWs) has been formed to provide the first level of
health care and serve as a link between villages and health clinics. The
Lesotho Flying Doctor Service (LFDS) has been created by GOL as an
additional HSA managed and supervised from headquarters at Maseru and
catering exclusively to 10 remote government clinics which are located in
mountain areas where land access is difficult. LFDS is a self-contained
unit with its own doctor and supporting staff. It hires planes from a
missionary organization operating in Lesotho and other parts of Africa.
LFDS medical staff visit each outlying clinic about once a week, examining
patients on the spot, supervising the nurse clinicians and evacuating
emergency cases to the nearest referral hospital or QE II hospital in
Maseru. A radio communication link is provided between the clinics and
LFDS headquarters.
2.09      The HSA and VHW systems were introduced four years ago, with the
assistance of consult;-its funded by USAID, as a means to decentralize key
aspects of MOH operatiGas, promote the integration of public and private
health services, and broaden community participation in the design and
oversight of health service delivery. While much progress has been made,
more needs to be done to develop appropriate norms and standards for the
supervision of hospital and clinic operations, and ensure full integration
into HSA activities of programs such as immunization and TB control which
were formerly vertical programs. In addition, greater decentralization of
budget and financial control systems would further enhance the ability of
USA management to operate effectively.
Private Sector
2.10      Non-governmental organizations are major providers of health
services in Lesotho (para. 2.15). Church missions are particularly active,
and in 1974 missions from six churches2/ formed the Private Health
Association of Lesotho (PHAL). The objectives of PHAL are to represent
mission interests to the MOR, to improve missions' ability to attract
2/ Roman Catholic, Evangelical, Anglican, Seventh Day Adventists,
Assemblies of God and Methodist.



8-
external support, to facilitate project administration, and to support the
coordination and integration of health activities among members and with
MOH. Each mission, however, retains control over its fees and operations.
PHAL is responsible for about half of the country's hospitals and 60% of
clinics. The Red Cross and the Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association
(LPPA) also provide health services, and there are 22 physicians in private
practice, particularly in the Maseru area.
Health Information System
2.11      Vital statistics in Lesotho are unreliable, as only about a third
of all births and a quarter of the deaths are rep3rted. A computerized
data collection and processing system for mDrbiditv and mortality data was
established in 1981. Monthly reports are received from all GOL and private
sector facilities. The compliance rate in reporting is relatively high
(85%). However, there is need for improvement in the design of data forms
(to provide more diagnosis - specific and age-specific data, and to
facilitate computerization of data) and for additional data processing
capacity and personnel so that reporting and the provision of data feedback
to health facilities can be more timely.
Pharmaceutizal Supply System
2.12      About 402 of all drugs used in Lesotho are locally manufactured
by the Lesotho Dispensary Association (LDA), a semi?-private commercial
organization established in 1979 with assistance from the Netherland
Government and equity paticipation from GOL and PHAL. It is in the process
of being converted to a parastatal company under MOH. LDA operations have
been extremely successful and for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1984,
made a gross profit of M375,000 on a turnover of approximately M1.9
million. It is also a foreign exchange earner, exporting drugs to the
neighboring countries like Botswana, Malawi, Zambia etc. at competitive
prices, exporting about 50% of its production (M1.00 million) during FY84.
The manufacturing standards are generally good, and comply with WHO
standards except for some capsules and oral rehydration salts, which are
manufactured using handfilling techniques.
2.13      LDA has a management contract with MOH to operate the National
Drug Stockpile Organization (NDSO), a unit of MOH which is responsible for
supplying the drug needs of all government and most private facilities.
Since 1980, when it assumed this role, NDSO has gradually been increasing
the proportion of national drug needs that it supplies which presently is
in the order of about 80%. However, some MOH departments are permitted to
maintain separate procurement and distribution arrangements. Although NDSO
still experiences some problems in procurement, management, inventory
control and distribution, with planned improvements of NDSO's operations
there would be no further justification in the future for maintaining
separate procurement/supply systems for public sector.
2.14      In order to standardize procurement of drugs, GOL prepared a
national drug list in 1975. Since the 1979 introduction of PHC, this list
is no longer adequate and leads to uncontrolled procurement of a wide



- 9 -
range of non-generic drugs at high cost. There is need for a complete
revision of the national drug list to cover fully the pharmaceutical needs
at primary, secondary and tertiary levels of health care as well as
critical drugs required for crisis management. Equally important is that
in the future MOR will limit procurement of drugs to the revised drug list
to contain costs.
D. Health Facilities
2.15      There are at present 20 hospitals in Lesotho, of which the
largest is the Queen Elizabeth (QE II) in Haseru. Eleven of the hospitals
(including the QE II, psychiatric and leprosy hospitals) are operated by
MOB. The remaining 9 general hospitals are operated by mission agenclas
affiliated to PEAL. The main centers for the provision of outpatient care
and MCH services (handling about 75Z of all first-attendance patients) are
125 health clinics. Seventy are operated by PHAL, 16 by the Red Cross, the
Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association (LPPA) and local communities, and
the remaining 39 by the MOH. Ten of the MOH clinics are managed and
supervised by the Lesotho Flying Doctor Service (para. 2.08).
2.16      The geographic distribution of health facilities in Lesotho is
relatively uneven (Table 5), with the population per hospital bed in 1982
ranging from 343 in Maseru District to 1,574 in Mohale's Hoek. Facilities
tend to be concentrated in the lowlands and urban areas, with the
mountain areas having lower access. GOL has been making efforts to correct
this imbalance, and in the last four years most donor-assisted upgrading
and construction of clinics was targetted toward under-served areas. The
rapidly growing peri-urban areas of the major towns (particularly Maseru,
Leribe and Mafeteng) are also relatively under-provided with health
facilities. One consequence is that hospitals in these areas are
over-burdened by clients seeking treatment for relatively minor ailments
that could be more cost-effectively treated in clinics. MOH is proposing
to relieve the strain on urban hospitals by the establishment of a limited
number of filter clinics in peri-urban areas to provide outpatient
treatment for basic ailments, as well as MCH and FP services.  (See Map 1).
2.17      Most hospitals need rehabilitation, and HCs need to be upgraded
to provide FP and MCH services. Sixty HCs have been upgraded (to uniform
national standards established by MOH), with funding from the Danish Agency
for Development (DANIDA), the European Economic Communities (EEC) and the
Overseas Development Administration of the British Government (ODA).
Funding is available from the African Development Bank (AfDB; for upgrading
23 HCB and construction o' another 10 and from EEC for renovating and
upgrading of 6 HCe. Preparation of a project for expanding and
rehabilitating 10 district hospitals with AfDB funding is at present
underway.



- 10 -
E. Health Manpower and Training
Manpower
2.18      Physicians at HSA level and nurse clinicians (NCs) at health
clinic level bear responsibility for various aspects of health care. NCs
were created under the USAID-supported Rural Health Development Project
(RIDP) to supplement the supply of doctors. They are nurse/midwives with
15 months of supplementary training. Other categories of health personnel
include health inspectors who, as part of the district health team (para.
2.07) are responsible for communicable disease control and environmental
health; registered nurses, midwives, and health and nursing assistants.
At the local level the VHW is a full time village resident selected by the
community. The VHWs who are predominantly women are not paid but receive
free medical treatment for themselves and their immediate family. The YHW
is responsible for advising on sound health practices, operating limited
preventive anLd curative services and motivating community members to seek
health and FP and MCH services from formal facilities. Annex 2 provides
additional information on the responsibilities of key personnel
categories. Table 6 gives data on personnel numbers and geographic
distribution.
2.19      Based on the current establishment list and the 1983 manpower
plan carried out with USAID assistance shortages of medical personnel is
one of the major impediments to the proper development of health services
in the country. Of a total of 106 doctors in the public health sector,
more than 75% are expatriate volunteer doctors, mostly on two-year
contracts. Most Basotho doctors who train abroad on bursaries either do
not return or on return Immediately switch to lucrative private practice;
currently, 19 doctors (all expatriate) work in PHAL hospitals and 22 in
private practice, mostly at Maseru. As only about 50 Basotho medical
students are due to return from overseas training between 1985-1991, the
current shortage of doctors is likely to continue. The NCs are also still
in short supply with only 37 trained out of a goal of 125. In 1980 there
were 346 registered nurses and 166 nurse assistants in the country; by
December 1983, the number had increased to 405 registered nurses and 217
nurse assistants but the supply is still inadequate. There are only 33
health assistants against a requirement of 125, and similar shortages exist
throughout the system.
2.20      Personnel management systems within MOE are inadequate.  Reliable
information on staff numbers, locations and vacant positions is not
routinely available and regular information is not provided by hospitals
and HSAs. There are about 1600 employees on the MOH establishment, or 16%
of all GOL employees with an undetermined number in temporary status. The
personnel hiring freeze of 1982 (para. 1.06) led to ad hoc appointments at
all levels. There is an urgent need to evaluate the quantity, quality and
deployment of the existing health manpower, and to review job
classifications and incentive systems. These problems are recognized by
GOL as common to many ministries. The Personnel Office of the Cabinet
Secretariat, which has overall responsibility for GOL personnel policy has,
with the assistance of a long-term consultant financed by ODA, started a
government-wide study of the problem in April 1984.



- 11 -
Lraining
2.21      High-level professional health staff (physicians, dentists,
specialist nurses) receive training abroad. Nursing and support personnel
are trained in-country. Nurses undergo three years of training after 11
years of primary and secondary schooling. A fourth year of training in
midwifery may be added, after which nurses can apply for specialist
overseas training in public health, MCH and clinical nursiug. The
"supplementary training for NCs focuses on primary health care, family
planning motivation, clinical medicine, community activities, health
management and administration and the training of VHWs. Nurse assistants
receive one year of training after nine years of basic schooling.
Laboratory assistants, health assistants and pharmacy technicians also
receive training in-country for a two-year period. VHWs receive
three-to-four weeks of training at HSA hospitals under the supervision of
staff from nursing schools. The training is gradually being transferred to
health clinics where trained NCs ihave been posted. So far, no
comprehensive FP training is available for NCs and nurses of the HSA
system, only LPPA staff has received FP training through IPPF experts.
2.22      Though a manpower plan was prepared in 1982/83, it needs
refinement, and no systematic training targets have been set for health
care personnel. There is no national training center for basic and
pOst-basic training of the various paramedical categories. A number of
small inadequately staffed training units operate from rental
accommodation. The registered nurses/midwives and nursing assistants are
trained at nursing schools run by MOH and PEAL. Although recent attempts
have been made to standardize the curricula for nursing training schools by
the nursing council, more needs to be done to ensure standardization.
Besides, the quality of training is not uniform. The training curricula
for these training schools are not standardized and the quality of training
is not uniform. There is very little coordination between NOH and PHAL
training institutions. The training of laboratory assistants, which is
carried out in a medical laboratory training school set up with Irish
bilateral assistance, is satisfactory. This school is affiliated with the
Dublin School of Technology and is managed by experts provided under the
program. This unit, however, is operating out of loaned premises and lacks
sufficient space. The health assistant course is directly linked to the
Chief Health Inspector's office and operates without adequate laboratories
or workshops. Similarly, pharmacy assistants train in a less than suitable
guest facility at the Chemistry Department at Roma National University.
The training of VHWs is not uniform, with private and public sector using
differing curricula and training techniques. By 1983 an estimated 2000
have been trained, and GOL intends to train 5000 by 1990 at a rate of 500
per annum from 1984 through 1990. The target is ambitious, considering
that there is a year's backlog in training, and existing VHWs will require
reorientation when the PHC training program is standardized. The experts
provided under RHDP project have helped to develop and print a standard VEW
training manual. This training manual, however, requires updating to
include training in family planning and other new programs like combating
childhood communicable diseases. The draft proposal for the next National
De"velopment Plan (1985-90) emphasizes the establishment of a National
Health Training Center and improvement of curricula.



- 12 -
F. Major Health Programs
2.23      The Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Program is centrally
coordinated and supervised by the Family Health Unit and operated in the
field by HSAs and district health teams (para. 2.08). The Family Health
Unit is responsible for program administration, technical back-up, training
and growth monitoring and rehabilitation. Antenatal care is provided by
nurse/midwives at district hospitals and NCs at the clinic level. Most HCs
run clinics for children under five years old, which include nutritional
surveillance using standard growth charts, with food supplementation in
mountainous areas. Based on available statistics, it is estimated that
some 50% of the pregnancies are seen at least once for antenatal care and
some 70% of infants are seen at least once in the first year for child
care. This is an impressive record, though considerable double counting of
first visits to different health centers cannot be excluded. Nurses at the
MCH clinics provide some health education through talks on hygiene,
nutrition and other related topics; this is not effective as it could be
because of lack of proper training and material support.
2.24      The Extended Program of Immunization (EPI), which was begun in
February 1980, was initially run by the EPI Unit in the MOH through three
mobile vaccination teams. The program is now delivered by HSA staff as an
integral part of MCH services, and MOH is phasing out the mobile teams.
The objective of the EPI program was to completely immunize all children by
1985. Targets were fixed in 1980 to immunize each year 60% of all children
under one year of age against diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus (DPT) and
polio, 80% against tuberculosis and 80% of all children aged 9-23 months
against measles. The first joint donor evaluation in 1982 found that 40%
of the children between one and two years had been fully immunized; figures
for individual vaccines were as follows: Bacillus Calmet Guerin (BCG)4/ -
81%, DPT - three doses 50%, polio three doses - 54% and measles - 49%.  The
evaluation team considered this program to be one of the best in Africa.
2.25      Tuberculosis and STD Control.  Tuberculosis is thc leading cause
of hospital mortality. Many of those affected are workers returning from
South African mines. Although a TB treatment program began in 1967,
efforts to date have concentrated on the provision of hospital-based
curative services, with a low level of follow-up (around 40%). TB
diagnosis has improved in recent years by the strengthening of laboratory
services with aid from Ireland.  There are at present no screening programs
for the population in general or for specific target groups. The STD
control program likewise suffers from lack of staff and laboratory
facilities, resulting in serious problems of diagnosis, treatment and
follow-up.  For both TB and STD, the MOH is eager to develop a phased
screening program as a prelude to mounting nationwide control programs.
2.26      Health Education.  The Health Education Unit (HEU) in MOH has as
its major responsibility the development of IEC programs in six priority
areas - EPI, sanitation, diarrhea treatment using oral rehydration therapy,
(ORT), family planning, breast-feeding and weaning practices and
4/   A vaccination against TB.



- 13 -
TB/STD/leprosy. The present staffing pattern of the HEU, however, (4
health educators, 4 home economists and 1 graphic designer) is
inappropriate and inadequate. Sufficient external assistance is available
to HEU in EPI, sanitation and diarrhea/ORT. There is need for support for
more intensive and better-designed IEC campaigns carefully focused on key
target groups, and utilizing the strengths of the various media available.
Some IEC activities in FP have been undertaken by LPPA, with assistance
from the Lesotho Distance Teaching Center (LDTC), which is a parastatal
organization under the Ministry of Education with expertise in the
develnpment of IEC programs.
2.27      Family Planning (FP).  Although there have been efforts to
promote FP in Lesotho, the levels of contraceptive prevalence and usage
rates remain low.  In the laiE 1960s, the Lesotho Planned Parenthood
Association (LPPA), an International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF)
affiliate, was established to provide FP services. LPPA began supplying
commodities in the early 1970s. The 1977 Lesotho Fertility Survey revealed
that 65.4% of ever-married women had heard of at least one contraceptive
method, with the pill (45.5%), withdrawal (42.3%), female sterilization
(35.6%), and injection (32.1%) being the best known. Only 22.8%, however,
reported ever using any methods. Prevalence was 7.2% of which 3.4Z was
withdrawal and 1.1% sterilization. Only 2.3Z reported using modern
reversible methods (pill 1.6, IUD 0.2, condom 0.2, injection 0.3). A
smaller survey carried out by LDTC in 1976 revealed very similar findings
with about 5-8% current use. The distribution for reversible methods ever
used by women was about 69% pill, 14Z IUD, 14% injectable and 3% foam.
More recent or more comprehensive data is not available; although MOB, LPPA
and some PHAL facilities do maintain patient records, these records are not
compatible. There is need for standardization of records, and improvements
in collection and analysis, in order to provide up-to-date and
comprehensive data on family planning that could be useful for Monitoring
and evaluation purposes. The family planning program suffers from major
constraints on both the supply and the demand sides.
2.28      On the supply side, while many health facilities, both public and
private, offer FP services, the levels of service vary greatly. LPPA
operates 9 FP clinics and 19 outstations. Private doctors, pharmacies, MOH
and PHAL associated facilities, and the Red Cross also provide FP services
as a part of MSC  services.  These activities are not coordinated, so that
the program has no quantified fertility reduction targets. The amount and
type of service provided by each agency depends in great part on the
socio-religious beliefs and training of health care staff within an
individual facility, especially in PHAL facilities. Condoms, pills, IUDs
and injectables are offered at most clinics, and laparoscopic or
mini-laparatomy sterilizations and tubal ligations are offered at most
hospitals and some private sector clinics. The level of FP training is at
present uneven, but GOL is addressing that problem through a
UNFPA-supported training project, which is starting early in 1985, for a
two-year period. Under that project, 30 trainers would be trained in FP
techniques by a consultant recruited and backstopped by IPPF. The trainers
would be drawn from KOH (17); LPPA (5); PHAL (6); and the nursing school
(2). These trainers would then provide on-the-job training to about 600



- 14 -
HSA staff and 250 VHWa.  The UNFPA project would also post an MCH/FP
adviser in MOH for two years and provide one year ot overaead training for
the Deputy Director of Medical Services in charge of MCH/FP.
2.29        On the demand side, while there have been some campaigrns by LPPA
and HEU aimed at stimulatiig Interest In FP and demand for contraceptive
services, these efforts have been sporadic and uncoordinated. In addition,
there is no uniform charge structture for FM services.  LPI'A charges for
contraceptive supplies and IUD insertions; the MO1i facilities charge one
Maluti each time an acceptor visits a facility for resupply or IUD
insertion, consultationi or removnl; and PUIAL facilities follow no uniform
policy. These variatiors in t'xe existing charge Ntructure has an adverse
impact on demand. The mission requested the MOlI to work with LPPA and PHAL
to develop a uniform rational fee structure for F.P. service delivery.
G. Health Expenditures and Financing
Expenditures
2.30      The MOH incurs all GOL's identifiable recurrent expenditures on
health and most of the capital expenditures. Within the private sector,
expenditures are made bv PHAL, by a number of other voluntary agencies, and
by individuals who pay for the services of independent physicians,
traditional medicine and drugs. In quantitative terms, COL health
expenditures in 1983/84 were M14.I million, and PHAL expenditures M3.8
million, together equivalent to about 2S of GNP in that year. No direct
data is available on other private sector expenditures. However, evidence
from household budget data suggests that these could amount to a further
0.9%-l.S% of GNP so that total hcalth cxpenditurcs are likely to be in the
range of 2.9Z-3.8%. As a proportion of GNP, both COL puDlic health
expenditures (1.5%) and Lotal health expenditures (2.9%-3.8%) in Lesotho
are comparable with thoae in other middle-income aub-Saharan Africa and in
neighboring countries like Malawi and Botswana, as are GOL health
expenditures as a provortion of overall GOL expenditures (5.8%) (Table 7).
2.31      Measured in cc.stant prices, the MOH's recurrent expenditures
increased by 70% between 1979/80 and 1981/82, in part as a result of a
general wage and salary Increase for all GOL employees (Table 8). Between
1982/83 and 1983/84, real recurrent expenditures declined by about 4%, as
GOL sought to reduce overall expenditures to compensate for revenue losses
(paras. 1.05 and 1.06). Expenditures in 1984/85 are expected to be
slightly lower in real terms than in 1983/84. Over the period
1979/80-1984/85 as a whole, real recurrent expenditures are estimated to
have increased at an average annual rate of 10%. As a proportion of the
overall GOL recurrent budget, health expenditures rose from 6.7% In 1979/80
to 8.8% in 1981/82, and averaged 8.2% over the period 1979/80 -1984/85, the
same as in the period 1974/75-1978/79. Development expenditure over the
same period has fluctuated markedly from year to year, rising from MO.9
million in 1979/80 to M2.4 million in 1981/82, then falling back to M1.8
million in 19P3/84 and a proiected MO.8 million in 1934/85 (all figures in
constant 1983/84 Maluti). As a proportion of total GOL capital spending,



health expendltures averaged 1.6% in the perlod 1979/80 - 1984/85, up from
0.9% In the period 1974/75 - 1978/79.  Total GOL expenditures on health
averaged 5.8% of overall 014. expenditure in the years 1979/80 - 1984185, up
from 5.1% In the period 1974/75 to 1978/79.
2.32       In 1983/84, t'xpendl1tureu  by hospital acenonted for about 70% of
overall MDII recurrent  xpendtiture; Lwo-thilrds of thI  wAs At thie Ql II
llompital.  I'HC received iahout 14% of recurrent bud:ctary ret-ourceu (11% for
health centers and 3X tor villagt level activitIen), with t)e reminlng 16%
accounted for by spendlnti on psycllAtLric alld leprosy mervices, public
health measures and admiuistration. Thils pactern ot expenditure ia typical
of doveloping countries In general and Inadequate to meet the growing
preventive Iealth care needs.  Over time, an Increasing share of resources
will he allocated to health clinica and village level activities, in line
with the Covernment'. long-term strategy to emphasize P}IC (par&. 2.07). An
Increase In the proporton of resources allocated to PHC in the development
budget (reaching a hili of 50% in 1982/83) has obvious implications for the
recurrent budget In future years.
Finnncing
2.3       In the non-i'lIAL private sector, operating costs are met entirely
from user charges or by payments from RSA health insurance funds to which
some resident.; of Lesotho subscribe. Within the PIIAL system, user fees
consistently meet the bulk of operating costs (from 60% to over 80%,
depending on the Institutl-n). By contrast, revenues from user charges at
MOH faciliLies amounted to only 5.7% of recurrent expenditures In 1983/84,
down from 16% in 1974/75 and 5% in 1979/80.  One reason for the Lower level
-.f cost recovery ln the GOL system is that user fees charged are
considerably lower than thone of PiHAL facilities (in some cases, only
one-sixthi as much). Furthermore, COL fees have been frozen in nominal
terms since 1980, during which tim- retail prices have riser, by about 60?.
In P1HAL facilit es, fees are adjusted at least once a year. to take account
of inflation annl other price changes.  A second re.ison for the low 1Lvel of
cost recovery by (OL its that fue collecLion Is Inefficiently carried out.
Reportedly, only 10  of Q1, II hospital patients pay the appropriate charge,
with non-payment common among public employees.
2.34       In comparison with other sub-Saharan African counitries even the
current low level of cost recovery is above average.3/ l4onetheless, the
situation as it now stands presents the following problems:
(i)     Recurrent GOL health cost9 will continue to grow as a
result of increasing population, cxpar.ded coverage
through the establishment of sew facillties, and the
provision of additional or improved services.  Over the
past decade. total COL recurrent expenditures have
increased sufficiently to meet the growing needs.
31  3' in Botswana (1984), 4% in Burundi (1982), 3% in Malavi (1982), 2--
in Kenya (1983), 2.2Z In Zimbabwe (1980/81) and 7% in Rwanda (1982).



- 16 -
However, GOL'e revenue pooiLion over the next few years
13 likely to deteriorate (paran. 1.05 and 1.06), while
MOH's recutrent cost needs contin e to grow (Table 9).
Table 10 shows that MOH's recurrent cost needs in 1989/90
could (xin constant 1984 Maloti), exceed by between MO.5
million and 42.4 million the resources available.
(il)    Artificially low fees in COL facilities create
distortions in resource allocation. Patiento use GOL
facilities rAther than PHAL facilities, COL district
hospitals rather than health clinics, and the QE II
in preference to distr4ct hospitals. These distortions
increase the burden on GOL facilities, and result in
puttents bt*ing tredted at unneccesarily high level (and
more expensive) facilities. The danger that investment
rcsources will also be distorted in accordance with
current usage cannot be ignored; and
(111)   The high level of subsidization in MOH facilties Is not
equitable. GOL facilities are concentrated In urban and
lowland areas, while many PHAL facilities serve the more
remote highland areas. Since PHAL fees are higher, and
collection more efficient, the highland population on
average is likely to pay more for its medical care. Cash
incomes In the highlands, however, are lower than urban
or lowland Incomes, and highland health servlce users
Incur greater non-monetary costs in terms of travel time.
2.35      There in now considerable interest within GOL in improving cost
recovery.   It would see. reasonable to restore the level at least to the
1974/75 figure of 16%. The terms of reference (TOR) drawn up by MOH for
the health financing study have been revlewed and found satisfactory by
IDA. The consultants would make recomendations on a revised fee structure
for MOH and the possibility of establishing a health lsurance scheme. The
study, which ia being financed by the EEC, Is expected to begin early in
1985 and to be completed in four to six months. Assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that the report of the Health Financing Study
would be made available to IDA, and that COL would, not later than March
31, 1986, put forward for discussions with IDA a proposed plan of action to
raise the level of cost recovery (para. 7.01(a)).
H. E&ternal Assistance
2.3b      The preponderance of GOL capital expenditures In the health
sector (about 85Z in 1983/84) is financed by foreign aid. Both
multilateral and bilateral agencies are active in Lesotho. Over the period



- 17 -
1978-84, among the multilaterals, the World Health Organization (WHO) has
provided more than US$1 million in technical assistance, training and
drugs; United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF), and United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(UNFPA), have provided about US$2 million for rural sanitation and the
development of MCH/FP and nutrition services; the World Food Program (WFP)
more than US$24 million in food; the EEC over US$2 million in food aid,
clinic improvement and water supply development, and ADB has made a loan of
US$10 million for rural health facilities. In the period 1978-84, among
the bilaterals: USAID has contributed US$14 million in rural health and
sanitation, and. US$5 million in food aid, the Federal Republic of Germany
over US$10 milUion in health services and rural sanitation; the Danish
Agency for Development (DANIDA) more than US$1 million for clinic
improvement; and the Irish Government over US$1 million on laboratory
training. There have also been inputs from the United Kingdom (UK),
Netherlands, Sweden, China, and Korea, as well as contributions from
voluntary agencies including Internal Voluntary Services (IVS), Catholic
Relief Services (CRS), Save the Children Fund (SCF), the British Leprosy
Mission, the Red Cross, the Unitarian Service and the World University
Service. Assistance is well coordinated.
I. Role of the Bank
2.37      Bank involvement in the population, health and nutrition
(PHN)sector in Lesotho began witEi a sector mission in 1980.  The report of
that mission emphasized the need for GOL to give priority to:
(i)   slowing the rate of population growth;
(ii) increasing the efficiency, effectiveness and coverage of
the health care system, and particularly of MCH services,
within existing and foreseeable financial ai.d human
resource constraints;
(iii) consolidating GOL and PHAL operations into a unified
national health care system;
(iv) reducing the burden which returning migrant workers place
on the national health system, by addressing such social
and public heelth problems as TB and STD; and
(v)   strengthening GOL's capacity to plan, organize, manage and
evaluate its PUN efforts.
GOL accepted the Bank's recommendations, and has taken appropriate actions
in a number of areas, in particular with respect to the development of a
national health care system and improving primary health care coverage.
The Bank Group's strategy is, through botb lending and sector work, to
assist GOL to continue the pursuit of the priority objectives listed above,
with particular emphasis on the strengthening and expanding of FP and
population programs (both in MOH and private agencies) and in increasing



- 18 -
the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the health system. The proposed
projec. is a key element in this strategy.
III.  THE PROTECT
A. Project Strategy, Design and Status of Preparation
3.01      This project, proposed for IDA financing as well as for
cofinancing and provision of technical assistance by several bilateral
donors and WHO, consists of four components: organization and management;
health and family planning services; pharmaceutical supply system; and
manpower development.  It also provides for a mid-term evaluation review,
with participation of all donors. These activities are complementary to
other external assistance for health and family planning, to Government and
non-governmental organizations. Main considerations in deciding on the
project composition were: acceptance of Government policies in primary
health care and child spacing; the need to select components that would
address the main public health problems and complement NGO activities and
other external support; and the need for institution building and
strengthening of the management process of health and family planning
services. Also, given the financial constraints on health system
development (para. 2.34), particular attention has been paid to the
efficient use of existing resources, cost containment and cost savings
where practical, and minimal incremental recurrent costs. Thus,
improvement in MOH's institutional capacity would be achieved by providing
training and technical assistance to existing management cadres, and by
strengthening financial and manpower planning and health information
systems. Health service delivery systems would be improved through a
modest program of rehabilitation and re-equipping of existing facilities,
the provision of training and technical assistance, and improvement in the
efficiency of systems for the manufacture and supply of essential drugs.
3.02      The project was prepared by MOE staff with the assistance of IDA
-and WHO and, for the TB and National Health Training Center sub-components,
from advisers financed by the Government of Ireland. When project
preparation began in May 1982, GOL conceived a project which focused mainly
on the provision of technical assistance. However, in September 1983, GOL
decided to broaden the scope of the project to include infrastructure
development, program development and training.
B. Objectives and Targets
3.03      The specific project objectives are to assist the Government of
Lesotho in:
(a)   strengthening the organizational structure of the health
and family planning services by training and posting
national staff in key positions, thus assisting in the
transition to self-reliance;



- 19 -
(b)   redirecting health and family planning investments toward
peri-urban and rural areas, to relieve the pressure on
hospitals through the establishment of filter clinics and
preventive programs;
(c)   improving the health and family planning and program
implementation process through training and improved
supervision; and
(d)   increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate by 10% per
annum during the project through improve FP/MCH service
delivery and supplies.
C. Project Composition
3.04      The proposed project would be implemented over a four-year
period and would include four components. All training activities financed
under the project are included in the manpower development component and
are summarized in Annex II.
(a) MOR Organization and Management (US$0.9 million)5/
{i)  Personnel Management:  the provision of 24 man-months of
long-term consultant services to carry out a personnel
review and job classification study within MOH;
(ii) Health Information: the provision of computer equipment, 2
years of the services of a computer programmer, and 3
man-months of short-term consultancy services in health
information system management and printing of manuals, to
improve the quality and timeliness of the data required for
management and evaluation purposes; and funding for 4 months
of consultancy services for the design of a national
household survey to collect baseline data on health,
nutrition and FP status and household expenditures and for
the analysis of results, and for the costs of conducting the
survey;
(iii)  Financial Management:  the provision of 24 man-months
services of a finance manager, the posting of a counterpart
for 4 years, and the printing of manuals in order to
continue the decentralization of budgetting and accounting;
(iv) Communications: the provision and installation of 16
two-way radio receiving sets (including spare parts), and 18
months of short-term consultant services in
5/ All component cost figures in this paragraph exclude both physical and
price contingencies.



- 20 -
telecommunications engineering and service engineering; and
the purchase and operation during the project period of 9
multi-purpose vehicles for HSAs to facilitate supervision
and referral services;
(v) Project Coordination: establishment of a project
coordination urnit, including funding for a deputy project
coordinator and a project accountant throughout the project
period, and provision of funding for studies and 12 mouths
of short-term consultant serv-'.es for preparation of future
projects, and for auditing of project accounts;
(b) Health and FP Services (US$1.9 million):
(i) CliniL Renovation and Construction: the renovation,
upgrading, furnishing and re-equipping of 18 health clinics
to MOH design standards for the provision of full FP/NCH
services, and the construction, furnishing and equipping and
staffing of five new filter clinics to provide health and
FP/MCH services in peri-urban areas and to relieve the
burden on neighboring hospitals;
(ii)  MCH/FP Service Delivery:  the provision of family planning,
training, equipment and the total national requirement of
contraceptive supplies throughout the project period to
expand and improve FP services; and 10 man-mnths of
short-term consultancy services in FP patient record
management.
(iii) IEC Program: the provision of audio-visual equipment, 8
months of short-term consultancy services for program and
campaign development, and funding for the production and
dissemination of printed materials and radio broadcasts to
establish an IEC program for FP and to strengthen MOH IEC
programs in breastfeeding and weaning practices and
TB/STD/ leprosy;
(iv)  National Tuberculosis Control Program:  construction and
furnishing of 3 TB screening facilities, the provision of
laboratory equipment, drugs and raw materials for local drug
manufacture, 24 months of the services of a a TB advisor,
posting of a national TB program manager throughout the
project period, and 3 months of short-term consultant
services in resistance research;
(v) Population Activities: the provision of funding for
innovative programs to be identified during the project
period and 8 months of consultancy services to develop
population and FP acti-vities outside MOH.



- 21 -
(c) Pharmaceutical Supply System (US$0.7 million):
(i) Drug Manufacturing: The provision of equipment to upgrade
and expand facilities at LDA for the manufacture of
essential drugs and TB control drugs;
(ii) Drugs and Supply Distribution: the construction and
renovation at NDSO of warehouse and office space and 6 staff
houses, the provision of storage and handling equipment,
and the provision of 6 wan-months of short-term consultant
services in inventory control, distribution and procurement
management to strengthen the MOD drug and medical supply
distribution system.
(d) Manpower Development (US$2.2 million):
(i) National Health Training Center (NBTC): the construction,
furnishing and equipping of a new NHTC, the financing of
incremental staffing and operating costs in the first 2
years of operation, and 3 years of the services of a
training advisor;
(ii) Training for NHTC Staff: the provision of about 222 months
of overseas fellowships for NHTC staff, to improve the
quality of training in key areas;
(iii) Overseas Training: the provision of 101 man-months of
overseas training in information systems management,
computer programming, financial management, FP techniques,
administration and motivation, TB management, radio program
production, graphic arts, equipment maintenance, and
inventory control and management, to support the other three
components of the project and to increase the numbers of
qualified nationals in these fields;
(iv) Local Training: support for shoit-term local training
courses and seminars for HSA staff in financial management,
for nursing personnel and VHWs in FP procedures, and
for pharmacy assistants in drug storage and supply
management, through the provision of funding for the hire of
facilities, travel and per diem and the costs of production
of teaching materials;
(v) Manpower Planning: the provision of three months of
consultant services to revise and refine short-, medium- and
long-term manpower and training plans for all cadres of MOH.



- 22 -
D. Detailed Project Description
MO!R Organization and Management
3.05      Personnel Management.  Personnel management in MOR is at present
severely hampered both by lack of accurate information and by the existence
of major anomalies in job specifications, qualification levels and salary
levels (para. 2.20). The project would finance the conduct of a personnel
review and job classification study for MOH. The Department of Personnel,
Cabinet Secretariat, in the light of the proposed project agreed to
accelerate the MOB personnel review and the findings of this study will
serve as a benchmark for a similar study of the other ministries of GOL
(para. 2.20). In order to ensure that the MOB study is fully consistent
with the overall study, the consultants financed under the project to carry
out the MOE study would work under TORa that have been prepared by the
Cabinet Secretariat, and would be under the supervision of the Cabinet
Secretariat.  The TORs are satisfactory to IDA.  The study woull provide an
inventory and analysis of existing job categories, a census of all present
MOR staff, and the development of job specifications and career ladders
appropriate to MOH's present and likely future needs, and would also
incorporate preparation of a plan of action for the revision of NOR
personnel practices. In view of the important implications the outcome of
this study might have on the manpower development component of the project
and on the staffing of the health system as a whole, assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that the analysis and recommendations of the
consultants would be sent to IDA for review and comment not later than
December 31, 1986 (para. 7.01(b)).
3.06      Health Information System.  The existing health information
system does not have the capacity to provide timely data for management and
evaluation purposes (para. 2.11). Improved health information data is
essential for improved planndng within NOH as well as for improved
management of the operations of each health care facility. During the
first year of the project, the health information specialist would assist
in the ongoing efforts of the Health Planning and Statistical Unit (HPSU)
of the MOB to redesign the data and patient forms in line with management
needs at all levels of MOB. The consultant would also, in consultation
with the advisor on financial management funded under the decentralized
financial management sub-component (para. 3.08) design a system to analyze
financial data in conjunction with health service data, so as to provide
information regarding the cost of delivery of bealth care services. The
consultant would prepare a phased plan for tie introduction of the new
system, prepare manuals for users of the new system, and train health care
staff to use it. In close collaboration with staff funded under the
USAID-funded project for Combattiug Childhood Communicable Disease (CCCD),
the consultant would also draw up plans for publication of montUly reports
as a means of providing regular feed-back to all health care providers.
The cost of production and printing would be financed under the CCCD
project.
3.07      In order to improve KOH's capacity to analyze data collected in
the field and to disseminate the findings to managers and policy makers in



- 23 -
a timely fashion, the project would finance the purchase of two additional
microcomputers with hard disks, together with a local area network (to link
the new and exist-ag computers), printers and suitable software packages.
The equipment would be installed within the HPSU. All equipment would be
of the same type as that currently in use in order to ensure full
compatibility. Two years of the services of a UN volunteer computer
programmer would also be provided under the project.
3.08      The project would finance the conduct of a national sample
household survey. This would provide comprehensive baseline data on the
overall health, nutrition and FP status of the population of Lesotho,
against which improvements in health system efficiency and effectiveness
could be measured. The survey would be conducted and analyzed by the GOL's
Central Statistics Office (CSO) during the second year of the project,
utilising CSO's regular cadre of field workers, whose per diem and
transport costs would be financed under the project. During the first year
of the project, a survey specialist would be recruited for a two-month
consultancy, to assist the CSO and the RPSU in survey design and the
drawing up and pretesting of the survey questionnaire. The same consultant
would assist in the analysis and interpretation of the survey results
during a further two-month period in the second year of the project.
3.09      Decentralized Financial Management (DFM).  The project would
support the ongoing implementation of DFM through provision of an
additional 24 months of the services of the technical advisor for whom
USAID funding would terminate in mid-1985 (para. 2.07) and six months
training of a counterpart in financial management. The advisor would
further refine DFM budgeting, accounting and reporting systems, and would
develop a system of budget categories and procedures for the collection and
analysis of data on expenditures by facility and service, and on manpower
utilization. These data, together with data from the improved health
information system (para. 3.06), would enable MOR to undertake analysis of
the relative cost and efficiency of its program and facilities. By the
time of project completion, these combined data systems would form the
foundation for a move to full performance budgeting.
3.10      Communications.  Lesotho's difficult terrain and absence of road
link between remote facilities and HSA headquarters makes supervision and
the provision of back-up support extremely difficult. To establish secure
contact with clinics for regular communication and emergency response, the
MOH is establishing a two-way radio network linking all major health
facilities. Under an ongoing UNDP-supported project (LES/809/C03 - Phase
I), 70 facilities have been provided with radio communication equipment.
There is a need for 71 additional radio sets, and financing for 55 has been
secured. The project would complete the establishment of the network by
financing the provision, in the first year of the project, of the remaining
16 two-way radio sets and associated equipment. To assist in installation,
the project would finance 6 months of the services of a telecommunications
engineer, and 12 months of the services of a maintenance engineer, who
would train MOR staff in radio use and maintenance. In order to facilitate
repair and servicing, the 16 sets to be financed under the project would be



- 24 -
of the same manufacture as the sets previously installed. The project
would also strengthen the ability of HSA management to supervise HCs and
provide referral services by financing the purchase of 9 four-wheel drive
multi-purpose vehicles which shall be used also as ambulances. One vehicle
would be provided for each of the GOL hospitals that act as HSA
headquarters. GOL would fund similar vehicles for the PHAL hospitals from
other sources.
3.11      Project Coordination.  While the project is designed to be
implemented through the regular line management structure of MOB and the
other agencies involved (para. 5.01), a unit would be created to provide
overall project coordination. The functions of that unit would include (i)
recruitment of consultants in accordance with IDA guidelines; (ii) the
preparation of disbursement requests and project accounts; and (iii) the
preparation of progress reports to IDA and other donors. The Director of
the Health Planning and Statistics Unit in MOH has been designated as
Project Coordinator, who would be supported throughout the project period
by a full-time Deputy Project Coordinator (who would be responsible for
day-to-day coordination), and a full-time project accountant. The project
would include financing for the travel and per tiem costs of project
coordination, for the costs of having project accounts audited by
independent auditors (para. 4.14), and funds for twelve man-months of
short-term technical assistance in the third year of the project to assist
MOH in the preparation of a successor project.
Health and FP Services
3.12      Clinic Renovation and Construction.  The project would support
the ongoing program for renovating and upgrading lHCs (para. 2.17) by
financing, upgrading, renovation and equipping of 18 clinics in line witn
MOH's efforts to ensure that all health facilities provide comprehensive
FP/MCH services. These clinics have already been selected. Ten are GOL
clinics and the remaining 8 are PHAL facilities. On average, each serves a
population of 10,000 - 12,000. Architectural details of the standard
clinic design and the renovation/upgradings required at each clinic are
available in the project file. In view of the scattered location of the
sites, the work would be carried out on a force account basis by 2 teams,
each headed by a Danish volunteer and consisting of 8-10 workmen. Similar
teams have already successfully upgraded 29 HCs and built 24 new ones.
Each team would complete the renovation of 3 clinics in each of the first 3
years of the project.
3.13      In order to relieve major urban hospitals of the costly burden of
dealing with relatively minor ailments (para. 2.16), the project would
fir.ance the construction and equipping of five filter clinics in the
peri-urban areas of Maseru (3), Leribe (1) and Mafeteng (1). Two of the
clinics in Maseru would be developed by upgrading existing facilities; the
other 3 would be new clinics, each 10Om2 in area and of a design acceptable
to IDA. Each clinic would serve a population of around 15,000, and is



- 25 -
expected to handle a daily workload of 100-150 outpatients. Architectural
details of the filter clinics, and a list of equipment required at each,
are available in the project file. Sites for five clinics have already
been acquired.
3.14      MCH/FP Service Delivery.  At present the availability and quality
of FP services varies widely from clinic to clinic, depending oa the level
of staff training, availability of equipment and the level of contraceptive
supplies (para. 2.28). Moreover, a high and variable fee structure for FP
services between GOL, PHAL and LPPA facilities has an adverse effect on the
demand for FP. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that GOL
shall, no later than July 1, 1986, furnish to IDA for its review and
comments, the results of a GOL review of the charge structure for family
planning services ard a plar. of action for the rationalization of such
charges (para. 7.01(c)). The project would provide for FP services to be
made more widely available. By the end of the project period, FP services
would be offered at all GOL and PHAL facilities.  GOL facilities would
offer a full range of services, including IUD insertion.  PHAL facilities
might be more limited, with only natural family planning being promoted at
some. Under the project, GOL would also undertake, on a trial basis, the
distribution of contraceptives outside the clinical system (para 3.22), the
details to be discussed with GOL during negotiations. The project would
seek to upgrade the level of FP knowledge and skills through both foreign
and local training (paras. 3.30 and 3.31). To assist MOE in the design of
training programs, the project would, in each of its 4 years, finacce 2
months consultancy services from an FP training specialist.
3.15      The project would finance ehe procurement of contraceptive
supplies during the project period to ensure adequate availability at all
service points. MOH and PHAL contraceptive needs durirg the pcoject period
are estimated as follows:
MOH arnd PEAL Contraceptive Needs
PROJECT YEAR
PYI          PY2          PY3         PY4
(1985/86)   (1986/87    (1987/88)   (1988/89)
Pill (Cycles)                  75,000       82,500      91,000      100,000
IUD (units)                     2,000        2,200       2,500        2,750
Cordoms (100 units)               600          660          730         800
Injectables (10-dose vials)    1,500         1,700        1,900       2,100
Foam & Jellies (tabs)           1,000        1,100        1.200       1,400
These estimates are based on the current prevalence rate for reversible
methods (based or. combined figures from MOR, PHAL and LPPA) of 5.5% and a
projected increase of 10% per anrnum. Stock or. hand as of September 1984
would be sufficient to cover 1984/85 and a part of 1985/86 requirements for
all commodities except foam tablets and injectables. The above figures are



- 26 -
based on the assumption that the contraceptive mix would remain the same
during the project period. The prevalence rate is expected to grow to
about 8% by the end of the project period. In order to broaden the range
of FP services generally available, the project would finance the provision
of two IUD insertion kits to each health clinic, and FP teaching kits
(including pelvic models) for all clinics (including those operated by PHAL
and LPPA) and HSA headquarters for use in periodic retraining of HSA staff
and VHWs. A total of 150 teaching kits and 250 IUD kits would be required.
3.16      Improvements in and standardization of the record-keeping for FP
clients would be undertaken by MOH. The project would finance a consultant
for two months in the first year of the project to work closely with the
HPSU and the Family Health Unit in this effort. This task would entail a
review of the format of FP records currently in use in MOH, LPPA and PHAI.
and development of a standard format to facilitate comprehensive data
gathering and analysis. The introduction of this standard format would
also be coordinated with the consultant hired to develop the health
Information system (para. 3.06).
3.17      IEC Program.  The project would provide support to the Health
Education Unit (para. 2.26) to strengthen its capacity to design and
implement well-targeted IEC programs in FP, breastfeeding and weaning
practices and TB/STD/leprosy. Generation of FP demand would be an
essential complement to project investments in improving FP service
delivery. The project would finance the procurement of equipment
(including cameras and cassette recorders) which, together with existing
functional equipment and the training funded under the project (para.
3.30), would, by the end of the project, provide HEU with the capability to
prepare campaign materials and radio programs. Each HSA would also be
provided with basic IEC equipment (principally slide and movie projectors
and screens) to facilitate the conduct of HSA-level training. The project
would finance the services of an IEC management specialist for a six-week
period at the beginning of the project. He would assist the Deputy DHS in
charge of health education to draw up a detailed implementation program for
the project period, which would include the establishment of a staffing
level for the HEU that would be adequate both in numbers and in skill mix.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that a detailed work
program and staffing schedule for the HEU would be submitted for IDA review
not later than December 31, 1985 (para 7.01 (d)). The project would also
finance the services of an IEC specialist for two months in each of the
four years of the project, to assist HEU in the preparation of campaigns
and materials and to provide on-the-job training for HEU staff. During
each visit, the specialist would assist HEU staff to fully develop at least
one campaign.
3.18      In order to step up IEC activities in the early years of the
project, while HEU's in-house capacity would still be limited, the project
would provide financing for HEU to contract with the Lesotho Distance
Teaching Center (LDTC) to develop, pre-test, and produce special campaigns,
print materials and radio programs in the areas of FP, breastfeeding and
weaning and TB/STD/leprosy. During the first year of the project, LDTC
would carry out a survey to assess the availability of the various media in
each HSA, and to gather and analyze baseline data on contraceptive



- 27 -
knowledge, attitudes and practices to ensure that IEC materials are
appropriately targeted. LDTC would develop 3 print campaigns in family
planning, I in breastfeeding and weaning practices, 1 in STD and 1 in TB.
For each campaign, LDTC would produce 3 pamphlets and 2 posters, print
10,000 copies of each for distribution, and produce 1,000 manuals for use
by health care staff and LPPA staff. LDTC wculd also be contracted by HEU
to produce 3 thirty-minute radio programs each week during the project
period. The project would provide funds for HEU to purchase prime radio
time from the Lesotho Broadcasting Corporation. LTDC would also prepare 3
programs, with associated manuals to be broadcast over the MOH radio
communications network (para. 3.10). During the third year of the project,
LDTC would carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness of IEC campaigns.
3.19      National Tuberculosis Control Program.  The project would aim to
reduce incidence of TB and increase follow-up and cure rates. The National
Control program would be developed in two phases. The first phase would
concentrate on developing a suitable technique for mass surveillance and
screening, establishing a home-based treatment strategy and identifying a
treatnent regimen that would be both effective and more economical than the
treatment currently in use. In parallel with the first phae, steps would
also be taken to strengthen laboratory services through the provision of 3
TB screening clinics, equipment and training.
3.20      The first phase of the program would be designed and implemented
by an internationally recruited TB specialist with experience in developing
countries; two years of this specialist's services would be financed under
the project. The TB specialist would be supported by a national
counterpart, who would be head of the program. In the first year, the
project would finance three months of tha services of a consultant
microbiologist who would carry out a study of the sensitivity of TB strains
in Lesotho to various drug treatments. At three district hospitals
(Leribe, Mafeteng and Quthing), small TB screening facilities would be
constructed and laboratory equipment (including fluorescent microscopes)
would be provided. Financing would be provided for the total national
requirements of both first- and second-line treatment drugs during the
first two years of the project, and for the development by LDTC of a TB
campaign (para. 3.18).
3.21      The second phase would be designed by the TB adviser and his
counterpart based on the strategies developed during the first phase. It
would see the initiation of a comprehensive screening/surveillance program,
with follow-up of all patients and their families. The program would be
implemented through existing HSA facilities and health cadres, under the
guidance of the head of the national program. The drugs required in this
phase would be manufactured by LDA using raw materials financed under the
project.
3.22      Population Activities.  A small amount of funding around 2% of
project costs) woulI be provided under the project for innovative
pornlation programs or activities designed to expand the provision of FP
services outside the frame work of the MOH. These funds would be under the
control of the he-d of FP/MCH in MOH (except for funds allocated for the



- 28 -
development of a population policy which will be placed at the disposal of
the Central Statistical Bureau). A number of progrims suitable for such
funding have already becn identified: (a) the training of staff from the
Women's Affairs Bureau in the Prime Minister's Office to act as trainers in
FP motivation for staff of ten women's organizations, for better program
coordination or information sharing; (b) the development by the Central
Statistics Bureau (CSB) of an analysis of population policy issues, and the
conduct of seminars for academics, politicians and opinion leaders, with
the objective of increasing top-level understand-ng of population issues
and laying the g;oundwork for the development of a national population
polic, during the project period; (c) pilot programs for community-based
distribution of contraceptives by VHWs or other staff cadres; (d) the
conduct of annual seminars for GOL agencies, LPPA, PEAL and women's
organizations for better program coordination and information sharing; (e)
the commissioning from outside researchers of studies and research of
relevance to population or FP/MCH; (f) seminars for physicians in HSA
system and in private practice on current developments in contraceptive
methods. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that prior IDA
approval would be obtained for each program proposed for funding under this
sub-component, and that arrangements satL;factory to IDA would be made for
monitoring of expenditures and evaluation of programs funded (para. 7.01
(e)). The project would also finance up to eight weeks of consultancy
services in each year of the project to assist in the formulation of
project proposals and in monitoring and evaluation of programs funded.
Phainmaceutical Supply System
3.23      Drug Manufacture.  LDA's present manufacturing capacity is
already under pressure and demand for essential drugs produced by LDA is
expected to continue to rise, particularly for TB control drugs which LDA
would be able to manufacture at a cost considerably below import prices.
It is also desirable on quality grounds for LDA to change from manual to
mechanized procedures in capsule and ORS filling, and to upgrade overall
quality control. In view of DANIDA's previous assistance to LDA's
equipment upgrading, DANIDA would finance under this project the provision
and installation at LDA of capsule-filling, ORS satchet filling and quality
control equipment. The expansion of production capacity at LDA will
require additional factory, laboratory and office space. The civil works
required, estimated to cost US$150,000, will be financed from commercial
sources, since LDA is a commprcial enterprise in a sound financing position
and able to borrow on commercial terms. Th:- likely source of financing
would be from the Lesotho National Development Corporation, which in turn
would draw on IDA funds under Cr 985-LSO.
Drug and Supply Distribution
3.24      The objective of this sub-component would be to streamline and
make more cost-effective NDSO's drug and supply distribution system. The
project would finance the construction at NDSO of 750m2 of additional
storage and office space, the remodelling of an existing store, the
expansion and improvement of a store for combustible materials, and minor



- 29 -
site works. Six staff houses would be constructed at NDSO headquarters for
management personnel who at present  ust commute over lOOkm a day because
of shortage of accommodation clos3 to NDSO facilities.  The project would
also finance the procurement by NDSO of handling equipment, including two
forklift trucks, two pallet truc!s and four trolleys. To Improve NDSO
procurement, distribution, inventory control and m.nagement procedures, the
project would finance during the first year of the project six months of
the services of a logistics specialist. In order to assure coo.. effective
drug procurement and discribution, however, there ia need for revising the
national drug list (para. 2.14). Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that MHO will revise the national drug list by December 1985,
based on WHO guidelines and that, from the beginning of GOL's 1986/87
financial year, drug procurement would be based en the revised natin'al
drug list (para. 7.01(f)).
Manpower Development
3.25      National Health Training Center (NHTC).  The project would
establish a new NHTC t' consolidate existing MOH and PHAL training for
nurse/midwives, nurse clinicians, health assistants, pharmacy techricians
and medical laboratory assistants. The new NHTC facility would be located
on a 17,000m2 site at Botsabelo, 5 km from the center of Maseru. GOL
already owns the p-z-,sed site and has agreed to its use. The NHTC
building would be about 2,800m2 in size, comprising three classrooms for 20
students each, cne conference room for 60 students and a library (totalling
350m2), five laboratori3s, a workshop and storage/preparation facility
(360n2). an administrative block (200.2), hotel accommodation for 150
students (1,300m2) and six houses for senior faculty staff (600.2). The
project would also finance the furnishing and equipping of the NHTC.
Schematic designs and detailed cost estimates would be submitted to IDA for
review prior to the start of npgotiations. Construction of the NHTC is
expected to be completed by Ss-ptember 1987, and NHTC is expected to begin
operations by the end of 1987.



- 30 -
3.26      When completed, the NHTC would provide long-cemn trainilng for the
following numbers and categories of student:
Intake      Length of                     Annual Training
(Number of      Courses      Frequency         Capacity of
Cadre             of students)    (months)    of Intakes             N!!TC
Medical Lab.           18             36        2 Intakes            36
Assistants                                      it 3 yrs.
Pharmacy               17             24        annually             34
Technicians
Nurse                  20             15 1/    annually              20
Clinicians
Health                 12             24        every                 12
Assistants                                      other yr.
liurse/Midwife         20-25          12        2 Q yr.              50
Total                   -             -           -                 152
I/ The course will iaclude 12 months of training at NHTC and three months
field training.
In. addition, NHTC would have the capacity to provide in-service trairing of
MOH, LPPA and PHAL staff and short-term seminars to selected r.on-medical
staff such as teachers, and would also be used for uee-ings and
conferences. The NHTC buildings are designed to allow for future expansior.
to provide training for staff such as X-ray assistants, dental assistants,
public health curses and health administrators.
3.27      In order to ensure that quality training is tffered by the NHTC,
the project would finance for the first three years of the project the
services of ar. internationally recruited health trai;iz4 specialist who
would serve as the Director of NHTC. This Director would be assigned a
counterpart director during the construction period of the new facility and
the first year of NHTC operatlons. The Director and his counterpart would
work with the faculty of the existing training units and the MOH, PHAL and
LPPA service units to revise the existing course curricula. At the
beginning of the second year of NHTC operations, the counterpart would take
over as NHTC Director. Particular attention would be paid to ensuring that
curricula would give appropriate emphasis to PHC and FP. Assurances would
be obtained that revision of the curricula with appropriate FP content is
completed by 1st July 1986 and be 4itroduced during 1986/C7 academic 7ear
(para. 7.01(g)).



- 31 -
3.28      While the NHTC wnuld be staffed largely by the present faculties
of MOH training facilities, the project would finance, during the first two
years of NETC operation, the salaries of an additional 22 professional and
support staff necessary to ensure optimal utilization of the facility. A
list of these staff is included in Chart 2 (para. 5.01).
3.29      Training for NHTC Staff.  In order to upgrade the skills of NHTC
faculty staff, the project would finance about 98 months of overseas
training. The counterpart Director of NHTC would, during the first two
years of the project, receive 12 months of training in education management
and curriculum development. The project would provide overseas training in
teaching methods for two staff (three months each), and training within the
region lasting 6-9 months in each case for 20 additional staff in
specialist medical skills, including x-ray techniques and anesthesiology.
The objective of th±s training program would be to provide NHTC staff with
a broader range of both technical and didactic skills.
3.30      Foreign Training.  In order to increase the number of well
trained nationals in the health sector, and to support the other components
of the proiect, the project would finance the provision of 101 months of
_verseas training (including tuition, travel and living expenses).  A major
aim would be to reduce in the medium term the dependence of MOH on
expatriate consultants and advisers. The majority of training to be
provided under the project would be within the region and would be
specifically targetted on developing the particular skill and knowledge
needed for the implementation of the programs supported under the project.
The training program is dovetailed with the provision of long-term
technical assistance, so that Basotho nationals would, under the project,
be provided with training of an amount and type that would enable them on
their return to take over from the long-term technical assistance
personnel. Details of training courses, duration, numbers to be trained
and timing of training are in Annex II. ResponsiJility for the selection
of staff to be trained would rest with the MOH manager responsible for the
relevant component. The overall administration of the training program
would be undertaken by the project coordination unit.
3.31      Local Training.  The project would finance the costs of running
local training courses, seminars and workshops to provide training in
particular skill areas to staff involved In the implementation of programs
supported under the project. Details of the numbers to be trained, course
content, duration and timing are given in Annex II. Responsibility for the
organization and conduct of the various courses, seminars and workshops
would rest with the manager of the relevant project compcnent.
3.32      Manpower Planning.  In order to improve health manpower and
training pla2ns (para. 2.20), the project would finance the provision of 3
months of the services of a manpower planning consultant. The revision of
the manpower plan would be undertaken by this consultant after completion
of the personnel review (para. 3.05). He would work jointly with the HPSU
(which has responsibility for manpower planning in MOB) and representatives
of PHAL and LPPA to refine present short-, medium- and long-term manpower



- 32 -
needs. He would also assist HPSU staff and the Director of NHTC to make
appropriate revisions in training plans, and to establish a system for
linking the provision of bursaries for overseas training to specific
manpower requirements.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A. Project Costs
4.01      Total project costs of the proposed 4-year project ate estimated
at US$7.4 million equivalent. No import duties or taxes would be payable
on goods and services purchased within the Southern Africa Customs Union,
of which Lesotho is a member. Commodities imported into the Customs Union
directly under Government programs are also not subject to duties or
taxes. Taxes would therefore be limited to the 6% tax levied on local
purchases of materials and equipment. These local taxes are estimated to
amount to about US$0.18 million, less than 3% of project cost. Foreign
exchange costs account for US$5.7 million or 77% of total project costs.
4.02      Detailed cost estimates by categories, project components and
foreign exchange components are given in Annex II, Tables 1 through 5.
Project costs by component and by expenditure category are summarized in
the following tables.



- 33 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
Ul '000)                (USS '000)                    Z Total
---- - ---------- - - ---           2 Foreign   base
Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total   Exchlne   Costs
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VORKS                1,181.8 3,217.9  4p399.8   596.9 1,625.2 2,222.1          73       39
P. FURNITURE                     58.3   267.5   325.8    29.4  135.1  164.6             82        3
C. EOI;PIEIT                       - 1,344.6  19344.6        -   679.1  679.1         100       12
D. VEHICLES                         -   168.7   168.7         -   85.2   85.2          100        1
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         138.6 2,133.1  2,271.7    70.0 1,077.3 19147.3          94       20
F. FELLOWSHIPS                    2.9   642.0   644.9        1.5  324.2  325.7         100        6
6. SEMINARS AND WORKSHOPS       1490.        -    1490.    75.2       -   75.2           -        1
H. SUPPLIES                      33.3   356.2   389 5       16.8  179.9  196.7          91        3
1. IEC CAMPAI6N DEYELOPMENT     124.6   148.1   272.7    62.9   74.8  137.7             54        2
J. SURUYS                        91.0        -    91.0     46.0       -   46.0           -        1
K. FP PROJECTS                  167.1        -    167.1    84.4       -   84.4           -        1
L. CONTRACEPTIVES                   -   239.6   239.6         -   121,0  121.0         100        2
M. MATERIALS                      4.0   142.3   146.3        2.0   71.9   73.9          97        1
N. MISCELLANEOUS                 12.6        -     12.6     6.3       -    6.3           -        0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           1,963.2 B,660.0 109623.2   991.5 4,373.7 59365.2          82       94
II. RECMURT COSTS
A. SAI*IES                     334.3        -   334.3   168.8        -   168.8          -        3
D. STIPEN!D                    108.3        -    108.3    54.7       -   5S.7           -        1
C. VEHICLE OPER. AND lAINT.     67.2    79.9   147.1    34.0   40.4   74.3             54        1
D. EQUIPMENT MAINTENNCE         38.7    46.0    84.7    19.5   23.2   42.8             54        1
Total RECURRENT COSTS              548.5   125.9   674.4   277.0   63.6  340.6            1         6
Total BASELINE COSTS              2,511.7 8,785.9 11J297.6  1,268.5 46437.3 5,705.8         78      100
Physical Contingencies           149.6   475.2   624.8    75.5  240.0  315,5             76        6
Price Contingenries              764.2  2,001.8  29766.0    386.0 1JO11.0 1,397.0        72       24
Total PROJECT COSTS               3,425.4 11F262*9 14,688.4  19730.0 5P688.4 7,4184        77      130
= _ = -=-  = _ _ _---=-                        -__ _  _ =     = i _   _



- 34 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(M '000)                  (USU '000)                     Z Total
- - ---------------------  -------- --------------      Foreisn   Base
Local  Foreitr   Tot.-l    Local  Foreitri lotal    Exchanse    Costs
A. MON ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
1. PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT                               6.1    245.4    251.5        3.1   123.9   127.0          98         2
2. HEALTH INFORMATION                                120.7    265.1    385.8      61.0   133.9   194.9          69         3
3. DECENTRALIZED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                 33.3    270.8    304.2      16.8   136.8   153.6          89         3
4. COMMUNICATIONS                                     63.9    517.9    581.8      32.3   261.6   293.8          89         5
5. PROJECT COORDINATION                               22.4    262.6    285.0      11.3   132.6   143.9          92         3
Sut-Total MON ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT               246.5  1,561.8  1s808.2    124.5   788.8   913.3           86        16
D. HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
1. CLINIC CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION               428.1  1,249.9  1,678.0    216.2   631.2   647.5            74        15
2. MC  / FP SERVICE DELIVERY                             -    374.3    374.3         -   189.0   189.0         100         3
3. IEC PROGRAM                                       174.2    468.4    642.7      88.0   236.6   324.6          73         6
4. NATIONAL TB PROGRAM                               138.9    690.4    929.4      70.2   348.7   418.9          83         7
5. POPULATION ACTIVITIES                             167.1     94.4    261.4      84.4    47.7   132.0          36         2
Sub-Total HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES           908.3  2,877.4  3,785.7    458.8 1,453.2 1Y912.0           76        34
C. PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY SYSTEM
1. DRUG MANUFACTURING                                    -    339.1    339.1         -   171.2   171.2         100        3
2. DRUG ND SUPPLY DISTRIBUTION                       241.0    795.7  1X036.B    121.7   401.9   523.6           77         9
Sub-Total PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY SYSTEM                  241.0  1,134.8  1,375.B    121.7  573.1   694.9            82        12
D. AMAPOIER DEVELOPMENT
1. NATIONAL HEALTH TRAINING CENTER                  963.1  2,523.5  3e486.6    486.4 1X274.5 1,760.9            72       31
2. TRAlNING FOR NHTC STAFF                               -    282.2    282.2         -   142.5   142.5         100        2
3. OVERSEAS TRAINING                                   7.8    359.7    367.5       3.9   181.7   185.6          98         3
4. LOCAL TRAINING                                    144.2        -    144.2      72.8       -    72.8           -         1
5. MAWOhER PLANNING                                    0.8     46.5     47.3       0.4    23.5    23.9          98        0
Sub-Total MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT                       1,115.8  3P212.0  4i327.8    563.5 1'622.2 2,185.7            74       38
Total BASELaIE COSTS                                    2,511.7  8W785.9 11,297.6  1,268.5 4,437.3 5,705.8           78       100
PhIsical Continsencies                                 149.6    475.2    624.8      75.5   240.0   315.5          76         6
Price Continsencies                                    764.2  2,001.8  20766.0    3B6.0 1011.0 i1357.0           72       24
TDtal PROJECT COSTS                                     3,425.4 119262.9 14,688.4  1,730.0 5,688.4 7,418.4           77       130



- 35 -
4.03      Base costs have been estimated at projected February 1985
prices. The costs estimated for civil works, furniture, equipment and
vehicles are based on contracts for similar items recently awarded by the
MOH and on updated United Nations Childrens Fund Supply, Packing and
Assembly Divisions (UNIPAC) catalogue prices. The cost estimates for
upgrading the rural clinics were individually assessed by experienced
volunteer leaders of the XOH construction teams during a survey in
September 1984. All estimates include provisions for local cost variations
determined by distances and road condition factors.
4.04      Physical contingencies of 12% have been included on civil works
(most of which consist of extensions and upgradings of existing facilities
in remote areas) and 5% on the cost of furniture and equipment. The total
physical contingencies represent about 4% of total project costs. Price
contingencies have been included on all local costs at rates of 13% in
1985 and 9% in succeeding years. Foreign price contingencies, appropriate
to the mix of construction, equipment and commodities to be purchased under
the project, have been included at a rate of 8% in 1985, 9% in 1986-88 and
7.5% in succeeding years. Price contingencies represent about 19% of total
project costs.
4.05      The foreign exchange cost was estimated on the following basis:
(a) civil works 70%; (b) furniture 80%; (c) equipment and vehicles 100%;
Cd) supplies 90%; (e) maintenance of equipment 50%; (f) technical
assistance and services, Individually assessed and varying between 0% and
100%.
4.06      Project costs include 118 man-months of overseas fellowships at
an average cost of US$1,685 equivalent per month based on the actual cost
of overseas training in 1984, updated to February 1985 prices. Incremental
salaries and operational and maintenance expenses are based on current GOL
scales.
4.07      Recurrent Costs.  The recurrent costs of the project would be
modest in relation to the present and projected total project recurrent
cost of GOL health operations. The recurrent cost of the project rises
from MO.01 million in FY85/86 to a sustained annual level of MO.5 million
in FY89/90 and succeeding years. At this level, the recurrent costs of the
project would amount to only about 2.7% of total projected MOR recurrent
expenditures in FY89/90 (M 18.5 million at 1984 prices). Furthermore, the
project would be expected to generate at full development incremental
annual cost savings of around MO.88 million (para. 6.01). In addition,
plans for enhanced cost recovery may generate increased income (para.
2.35).



- 36-
B. Financing
4.08      Seven co-financing agencies would finance US$6.1 million as
tabulated below. This represents 83Z of total project costs, equivalent to
100% of foreign exchange costs and 23% of local costs. The proposed IDA
credit of US$3.5 million would finance 61% of the project's total foreign
exchange costs and 47% of total project costs. The GOL would provide
US$1.3 million equivalent to 78% of local costs or 17% of the total project
costs, of which US$0.18 million would represent tax and duties.
Project Financing Arrangement
Proposed       Percentage of
Financing     Project  Foreign
Agency      Maloti    US$    Cost       Exchange            Activities
million  million           Cost
1.   GOL         2.53    1.28      17%               To defray local costs
of the project.
2.   IDA         6.93    3.50      47%      61%      Upgrading of 13 rural
clinics, construction of
NHTC, 5 filter clinics,
3 TB screening centers,
TB drugs, technical
assistance and
fellowships.
3.   Irish       2.22    1.12      15%               TB Control and National
Bilateral                                       Health Training Center
Assistance                                      (vehicles, equipment
supplies, drugs,
fellowships, training
and consultants).
4.   DANIDA      0.73    0.37       5%               Equipment for LDA, NDSO
and technical assistance
to NDSO. Team leaders
for rural clinic
implementation units.
5.   EEC         1.47    0.74      10%               Upgrading 5 rural
clinics, FP equipment
and contraceptives.
6.   USAID       0.29    0.15       2%               Fellowships training and
consultants.
7.   WHO         0.38    0.19       3%               Fellowships training and
consultants.
8.   UNDP        0.14    0.07       1%               UN volunteer
Total Project   14.69    7.42       100%
Net of Taxes
(Of which Taxes
and Duties)     0.36    0.18



- 37 -
All co-financing activities will be coordinated by the Project Coordination
Uni t.
C. Procurement
4.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
(US$ Millions)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                ICB      LCB     Other        N.A.        Cost
Civil works                    1.9      0.2       0.8         -          2.9
(1.3)    (0.1)    (0.4)         _         (1.8)
Furniture, Equipment,
Vehicles, Contraceptives,    0.3        0.1       1.2         -          1.6
Supplies Materials           (0.3)    (0.1)    (0.2)         ()         (0.6)
Technical Assistance            -        -         -         2.2         2.2
Fellowships, Training,         (-)      (-)       (-)       (1.0)       (1.0)
Surveys
-        -         -         0.1         0.1
Population Activities          (-)      C.)       ()        (0.1)       (0.1)
Recurrent Costs                                              0.6         0.6
Total                  2.2       0.3      2.0         2.9        7.4
(1.6)    (0.2)    (0.6)       (1.1)       (3.5)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Six other foreign donors would finance $2.6 million under parallel
co-financing arrangements and use their own procurement procedures as
follows:
(a) The Irish Bilateral Assistance would provide $545,000 for financing
furniture, equipment, vehicles, supplies and materials procured in
Ireland after competitive bidd:ng and $578,000 for T.A., fellowships
and training using Irish resources;
(b) DANIDA would provide special equipment bought in Denmark for $273,000
for manufacturing, checking and storing pharmaceuticals and $96,000
for TA, training and teamleaders of the rural clinics construction
groups;



- 38 -
(c) EEC would finance $410,000 for upgrading and equipping five rural
clinics, $153,000 for the import of contraceptives competitively
procured in Europe, and $178,000 for IEC campaign development;
(d) UNDP wculd provide $74,000 for TA;
(e) WHO would finance TA, fellowships and training for $192,000; and
(f) USAID would finance $148,000 for fellowships and training.
Civil works contracts above $500,000 (US$1.9 million) would be awarded
after ICB. Works for upgrading, furnishing and equipping 18 rrral clinics
(US$0.9 m) would be carried out by force account (para. 5.05). The
remaining civil works (TB and filter clinics) (US$0.2 m) would be grouped
as appropriate and contracted after LCB, following procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank Group. Contracts for vehicles ($86,000), equipment
($135,000) and drugs ($120,000) would be appropriately grouped for ICB;
contracts which cannot be grouped into packages of at least $50,000 w3uld
be awarded after LCB. The IDA-financed specialized radio equipment
($68,000) represents only some 10% of the value of existing contracts for
the supply of the same standardized items procured after limited
international competitive bidding; this equipment will be procured after
contract negotiations or extensions acceptable to the World Bank Group.
Furniture, mainly for the hostel of the NHTC (US$0.lm) would be grouped and
purchased after LCB. The contracts for furniture are expected to be
awarded to local manufacturers. A margin of preference equal to 15Z of the
CIF bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import
taxes, whichever is less, would be allocated for domestic manufacturers.
Schematic design plans, sample bid and advertisement documents for each
type of procurement and master lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles
including cost estimates and grouping proposals would be requested by the
World Bank Group for review and comment. Bid evaluation reports would be
required for review prior to contract award for all work and supply
contracts over $100,000. Items of equipment and supplies less than $25,000
may be purchased by prudent shopping provided the aggregate value of such
purchases does not exceed $100,000. During negotiations, assurances would
be sought that procurement would be in accordance with the procedures
outlined in para. 4.09, and that IDA-financed consultants have
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, and would be hired on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with the
'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the
World Bank as an Executing Agency" (Au--.st 1981), (para. 7.01 (h)).



- 39 -
D. Disbursements
4.10      A special account of US$0.2 million would be disbursed at the
beginnaig of the project; the balance of the credit would be disbursed as
follows:
(a)    Oae hundred percent of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 80% of local expenditures for
furniture, equipment, vehicles, spare parts, supplies and raw
materials for local production of drugs (US$0.4 million);
(b)    One hundred percent of expenditures for family planning
sub-projects (US$0.2 million) training activities and management
surveys;
(c)    One hundred percent of total expenditures for consultant services
(US$0.6 million);
(d)    Eighty percent of total expenditures for civil works under
contracts (US$1.3 million);
Ce)    Eighty percent of total expenditures for civil works under force
account (US$0.3 million); and
C(f)    Unallocated (US$0.5 million) representing a portion of the
contingencies on the above categories and transferable to them as
required.
In order that preparation for implementation may proceed, the project would
include US$75,000 equivalent for retroactive financing of consultant
contracts signed after October 1, 1984 for the preparation of civil works
design and tender documents.  Disbursements under (a), (c) and (d) would be
fully documented. Disbursements under (b) and (e) would be on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOEs), documentation for which would not be
submitted for review but which would be kept at one location in, MOR for
review by IDA supervision missions and for anaual audit (para. 4.14). To
facilitate efficient disbursements of credit funds, the GOL would open a
special accounmt (para. 4.11) to finance items (a) to (e) above. Experience
ir other IDA projects in Lesotho (e.g. education projects) which have
satisfactorily used SOEs ir the past, indicates the project coordinator's
office, supported under the project (para. 3.11), should have the
institutional capacity to use SOEs and to manage the special account. The
estimated schedule of disbursements is in Table 12. For the first two
years of disbursements, the schedule follows the historic profile for 21
IDA-financed population projects, which or average were not fully disbursed
until nine years after credit effectiveness. It would be unwise to project
a faster rate of disbursement since, despite the efforts that have been
made to have civil works and equipment procuremert well advanced by the
time of Board presentatior, this project is the Bank Group's first lending
operation in Lesotho in the population, health and nutrition sector.
However, it would not be realistic to propose a nine-year disbursement,
since this project, which is very much geared to the provision of technical
assistance and traiting, is different from earlier PEN projects which



- 40 -
generally included large civil works components. Projected disbursements
after the second year are therefore faster than the historic profile, and
it is estimated that the proposed credit would be fully disbursed five
years after credit effectiveness, i.e. one year after the expected project
completion date.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.11      Special Account - In order to ensure that foreign funds for the
project would be available as needed, a Special Account operated by the
Project Coordinator's Office would be established by GOL in the Lesotho
Bank. This account would receive deposits from the project credit for
financing eligible project expenditures for items (a) to (e) above.
The Special Account would be in U.S. dollars. There would be a US$260,000
equivalent ceiling, calculated to represent the maximum three-month average
of expenditures plus 20Z to be financed from the account. An initial
deposit of US$260,000 would be made on this account by IDA upon receipt and
approval of a Procedure III (Application for Direct Payment) disbursement
request. The opening of a bank account into which the initial deposit
would be made would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness (para. 7.02
(b)).
4.12      Project Advance Account.  In order to ensure that GOL counterpart
funding would also be available when needed, GOL would establish a separate
Project Advance Account into which it would deposit, at the beginning of
each quarter, the GOL share of project costs. Establishment of the advance
account and deposit of the initial amount of M100,000 and quarterly
replenishment with a minimu  balance of M50,000 would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (para. 7.02 (c)).
4.13      Imprest Account.  A further condition of credit effectiveness
would be that GOL would establish an imprest account for rural clinic
renovation and shall at all times, maintain in such account a minimum
balance of M 50,000 (para. 7.02 (d)). This account would be under the
control of the Director of the Rural Clinics Implementation Project.
Similar arrangements have proved effective under the ongoing DANIDA and
EEC-fanded program.
Audit
4.14      The Accounts Unit of MOH, working in close cooperation with the
Project Accountant in the Coordination Unit, would maintain separate
detailed accounts of all project expenditures incurred by MOR and other
agencies. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that all
project accounts would be audited by the Auditor General and that all
audited accounts, together with the auditors' report would be submitted to
IDA not later than six months after the end of each GOL fiscal year,
beginning with 1985/86 (para. 7.01(i)). During the audit of these annual



- 41 -
accounts, the auditors would apply special attention to verifyi-g the
reliability of SOEs supporting applications for reimbursement from the
credit, and to the internal controls and procedures involved ir. the
preparation of SOEs. If the Auditor General decides to sub-contract the
audit of project accounts to a private auditor, the cost of such audit,
estimated at $8,100 per year, would be financed from the credit.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization a-ad Management
5.01      The Permanent Secretary of MOH would have overall responsibility
for project implementatior., which is expected to start on September 1,
1985 and be completed by August 31, 1989. The expected credit closing date
would be June 30, 1990. The project has been designed to be implemented
through the regular management structure of MOH and the other agencies
inxvolved. Responsibility for the implementation of the various components
would rest with appropriate MOH managers rather with a Project Unit.  There
would be need for coordination in planning, budgeting, procuremernt and
disbursement. The Director of the HPSU ir. MOH has been designated as
Project Coordinator. She would be assisted by a Deputy Project
Coordinator, who would be responsible for overseeing project implementation
on a day-to-day basis, and by a Project Accountant., GOL has been requested
to appoint the Deputy Project Coordinator prior to negotiations. The
person selected, who would have experience ir. the administration of
exterally-funded development projects, would thee receive, prior to the
start of implementation, training by IDA staff in procurement,
disbursement, accounti-ng and auditing procedures. While the project has
been designed explicitly to minimize incremental recurrent costs (para.
3.01), successful implementation of the project would nevertheless require
the posting of some additional staff (Chart 2).  Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that appropriate staff positions would be
established and funded ir. a timely macner to meet the needs for additional
manpower for project activities as detailed ir Chart 2 (pars. 7.01 (j).



- 42 -
5.02      Implementation of the other sub-components would be as follows:
Primary               Secondary
Sub-component                Responsibility          Responsibility
1. Personnel Managemen.         Chief Personnel          Principal
Officer, Cabinet        Administrative
Secretariat             Secretary - MOH
2. Health Information           Health Information       Chief. Health
System                       Unit                     Planning & Statistical
Unit
3. Decentralized                Principal Admin-
Financial Management         istrative Secretary -
MOH
4. Communications               Deputy Director -        Director of Health
Health Services (PHC   Services
Development)
5. Future Pr3ject               Deputy Project           Projlect Coordinator
Development                  Coordinator
6. MCH & FP Services            Deputy Director          Director Health
Health Services         Services
(Family Health)
7. IEC                          Deputy Director          Director Health
Health Services         Services
(Health Education)
8. TB Control                   Deputy Director          Director Health
Health Services         Services
((D4sease Control)
9. Drug Manufacture &           Managing Director -    Permanent Secretary
Drug Supply                  LDA                      - MOH
10. Nat. Health Train4ng        Director Nat. Health   Permanent Secretary
Center & Training           Training Center         - MOH
Programs & Impl.
11. Overseas Training           Deputy Project           Project Coordinator
Local Training              Coordinator
& Coordination
12. Selection of                Officer In-charge of   Dep. Project
Trainees 6 Courses          a given sub-component  Coordinator
13. Selection of                Dep. Project             Project Coordinator
Consultants                Coordinator
14. Manpower Planning           Director of Health       Permanent Secretary
Planning and            - MOH
Statistical Unit



- 43 -
B. Civil Works
5.03      ResponsibiJtty for design and construction of the main civil
works of this project rests with the Ministry of Works (MOW) under the
'verall direction of the Project Coordinator of the MOH. MOW has
cstablished and recently strengthened an architectural unit, WAHU (Ministry
of Works, ArchLtects Branch, Health Unit) which has an office on MOH
premises.  WAHU is headed by a qualified architect, and includes one
expatriate senlor techniciaL., one draftsman and one clerk of works. As the
MOW is temporarily short of staff and overconmitted to a currently heavy
workload, some professional services, i.e. quantity surveyor's works for
the NHTC and architect's service for the NDSO Mafeteng, have been assigned
to private firms. MOH has selected, but not yet confirmed, the
availability of sites for the NHTC at Botsabelo, sites for filter clinics,
the sites for the NDSO warehouse and staff houses and 3 sites for the
extension of buildings for TB clinics at selected hospitals. Before
negotiations, MOH is expected to ensure that suitable sites ase available
for all new project facilities and/or extensions and upgradings.
Assurances would be sought during negotiations that all required sites have
been confirmed and approved by GOL (para. 7.01 (k)). Equipment and
furniture lists and schedules of accommodation for all buildings have been
agreed on and are on the project file. The upgrading and renovatlon of 18
clinics would be carried out by the Rural Clinics Implenaentation Unit of
the Ministry of Cooperative and Rural Development established with Danish
assistance. This unit operates through well equipped -mountain teams of
local trained workers and supervised by Danish Volunteers. This unit has
already upgraded 29 and constructed 24 clinics for MOH (funded by DANIDA,
ODA & EEC) in the past six years at prices 10-30Z lower than the
competitive bids where available. WAHU would supervise the quality and
progress of works.
C. Consultant Services
5.04      The project would finance 215.5 months of consultant services.
all of which is expected to be undertaken by foreign consultants and
complimentary professional fees for local architects and quantity
surveyors. Draft TORe for all major consultancies and technical assistance
assignments have been cleared with GOL and are included in the project
file. The project would also finance a contract for design, pretesting and
production of IEC materials with a local organization, LDTC (para. 2.26).
A draft contract is available in the project file. Administration,
recruitment and contracting for consultancies would be handled by the
Project Coordination Unit. Technical responsibility for finalizing
detailed terms of reference, initiating requests, agreeing on selection,
designating counterparts and ensuring proper utilization of consultants
would rest with the officer in charge of the respective components to which
the consultancy would apply. Quarterly reporting on project progress would
include a section on consultancies underway or completed and an assessment
of the achievement in relation to the stated objectives and terms of
:eference. For all consultants employed under this project,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to IDA, and in accordance with the Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (Au;ast 1981).



- 44 -
D. Monitoring, Evaluation, Reporting
5.05      The Project Coordinator would make appropriate arrangements for
(1) monitoring progress of each component; (iI) evaluating inputs,
processes and outputs; and (iii) distributing biannually progress reports
to the donors. The Coordinator would utilize the progress indicators for
various p.oject components as indicated in the implementation schedule
(Chart 3) and measure Implementation against the Implementation schedule
and updated interim proje.tions.  Inputs, progress and outputs would be
monitored against annual work plans and evaluated in qualitative and
quantitative terms.  Each unit responsible for implementation of project
components would prepare monthlv statewents on progress. The Project
Coordinator would consolidate these statements and report to the donors,
within one month after each half year, following a format to be agreed with
the donors. These nalf yearly reports would also include statements on
procurement, expenditures and disbursements and a projection of expected
key activities during the following half year. Assurances would be sought
during negotiations that the GOL would arrange a mid-term review at the end
of FYB7/88 with all participatIng donors, and that a complettin report will
be prepared no later than six month. after the loan closing date (para.
7.01 (1)).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISES
A. Benefits
6.01      By the time of complet0on, the project would be expected to
result in savings of around M880,000 (US$550,000) per year in the cost to
GOL of providing health care services. These cost savings would come from
three sources. First, savings in annual pharmsceutical supply costs
(M560.000) would be made possible by the improvements in logistic systems
and management financed under the project. Second, savings in the cost of
treating TB cases (M180,00O) would result from rationalization of the TB
treatment regimen (providing for more cost-effective use of drugs) and from
the local processing of TB drugs instead of importing them at higher
prices. Third, the establishment of filter clinics would lead to savings
of M140,000 by providing lower cost alternatives to the out-patient
facilities at the OE II Hospital and the two district hospitals involved.
6.02      In additlon to these quantifiable benefits, the project would
also generate benefits through improvement in the efficlency and quality of
health and MCH/FP services which would result from decentralized financial
management, improved transport and communications facilities, and training
and technical assistance.  Mbrt:l_ty levels are likely to drop by the close
of the project due to these improvements.  The improvements in HCH/FP
services should result in an Increase 'n the numbers of FP acceptors
leading to an increase in CPR from a present level of 5.5: to 8% at project
completion; more women breastfeeding; longer intervals between births and a
decrease in morbidity and mortality of both infants and mothers. These
benefits would be broadly spread amongst the populatlon of L*sotho,
particularly in perl-urban and rural populations. The



- 45 -
improvements in MCH/FP services, the introduction of a substantial national
IEC campaign to create a demand for family planning services, and the steps
towards development of a comprehensive population program would all lay the
groundwork for a more substantial impact on fertility in a subsequent
project.  The strengthening of the national TB control program ehould
result in increased case finding, better diagnosis, identification of cases
resistant to the standard treatment regimen and a decrease in the number of
defaulters and should lead in the longer term to a reduction in the
incidence and prevalence of TB.
6.03      Project benefits in the area of management and institutional
building would be in accordance with the priority given by the Bank Group
to institutional development in Lesotho. These benefits are particularly
important in the light of the uncertainty of Lesotho's long term economic
prospects, an uncertainty which makes it imperative for the GOL to manage
its existing resources as efficiently as possible. The project should
create an institutional capability to develop a target oriented PP program
by the end of the project period. The implementation of the
recommendations of the health financing study is likely to help the MOH to
increase the level of cost recovery, as well as deterring the excessive or
unwarrented use of these services.
B. Risks
6.04      The proposed project would not be more risky than first family
health projects in any other sub-Saharan African countries. The project
has been designed to be modest in scope, and to be implemented mainly by
established units with proven records. Project demands on the GOL
recurrent budget have deliberately been kept small and would in any case be
more than offset by the savings that would be generated by project
investments. Some degree of risk is attached to the training component,
which would involve the creation of a new institution. However, this risk
would be minimized by the substantial technical assistance being financed
as part of the component and by the substantial groundwork which has
already been laid with the assistance of the Irish Government.
6.05      A risk to the effectiveness and impact of the family planning
program may lie in the uncertainty of finding effective innovative
approaches to service provision and education motivation, usirg not only
the network of GOL health facilities, but also the private sector. It is
expected that the provision of FP services by GOL in conjunction with a
strong IEC program would encourage demand for FP services, and that PRAL
would be increasingly prepared to meet these demands. It would, however,
be prudent for GOL to plan over time to reduce dependence on mission
cliaics for the delivery of FP services. The development of alternative
outlets will be discussed with GOL during negotiations, and funds provided
under the project for population activities could be used to support this
by, for example, financing the development of pilot schemes for
community-based distribution of non-prescription contraceptives through
village health workers.



- 46 -
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the following assurances have been obtained:
(a)   The report of the Health Financing Study would be made
available to IDA, and that GOL would, no later than
March 31, 1986, put forward for discussion with EEC and IDA
a proposed plan of action to raise the level of cost
recovery (para. 2.35);
(b)   The analysis and recommendations of the consultants
carrying out the personnel review and job classification
study would be sent to IDA for review and cov-mnt not later
than December 31, 1986 (para. 3.05);
(c)   GOL shall, no later than July 1, 1986, furnish to IDA for
its review and comments, the result of a GOL review of the
charge structure for Family Planning Services and a plan of
action for the rationalization of such charges;
sd)   A detailed work program and staffing schedule for the HEU
would be submitted for IDA review not later than December
31, 1985 (para. 3.17);
Ce)   Prior IDA approval would be obtained for each program
proposed for funding under the population activities
sub-component, and that arrangements satisfactory to IDA
would be made for monitoring of expenditures and evaluation
of programs funded (para. 3.22);
(f)   MOH would revise the national drug list by December 1985,
and that from beginning of GOL's 1986/87 financial year
drug procurement would be based on the revis.d national
drug list (para. 3.24);
(g)   Revision of curricula with appropriate FP contents is
completed by July 1, 1986, and be introduced during 1986/87
academic year (para. 3.27);
(h)   The procurement procedures would be in accordance with
procedures outlined in para. 4.09 and that IDA-financed
consultants would have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA, and would be hired on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with the
'Guidelines for use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and the World Bank as an Executing Agency" (August 1981)
(para. 4.09);



- 47 -
(i)   Separate project accounts will be maintained by the Project
Accountant and all project accounts would be audited by
independent auditors whose qualifications and experience
are satisfactory to IDA, and that all audited accounts,
together with the auditors' report, would be submitted to
IDA not later than six months after the end of each GOL
fiscal year, beginning with FY1985186 (para. 4.14);
(j)   Appropriate staff positions would be established and funded
in a timely manner to meet the needs for additional
manpower for project activities as detailed in Chart 2
(para. 5.01);
(k)   All required sites have been confirmed and approved by GOL
(para. 5.03);
(1)   GOL would arrange a mid-term review at the end of FY87/88
with all the participating donors and that a completion
report would be prepared no later than six months after the
loan closing date (para. 5.05).
7.02      The following will be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)   effectiveness of Irish, DANIDA and EEC financing (para.
4.08);
(b)   GOL would establish a Special Account (para. 4.11);
(c)   GOL would establish a separate Project Advance Account and
deposit an initial sum of M100,000 as GOL share of project
costs. The account would be replenished every quarter and
the balance at no time would be less than M50,000 (para.
4.12); and
(d)   GOL would establish an imprest account under the control of
the Di'rector of Rural Clinics Implementation Unit and shall
at al?. times maintain in such account a minimum balance of
1450,000 (para. 4.13).
7.03      Subject to above assurances and conditions being met, it is
recommended that the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of US$3.5 million equivalent on standard terms to the
Government of Lesotho.



- 48 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 1: ALTERNATIVE PROJECTIONS OF POPULATION SIZE AND GROWTI
Population Size               Annual Rate of
(millions)                Natural Increase (C
I1/      112/     III3/    I1/       II2_     III3/
1980                   1.341    1.341    1.341
2.76     2.76     2.76
1985                   1.529    1.529    1.529
2.87     2.87     2.20
1990                   1.754    1.754    1.696
2.97     2.97     1.67
1995                   2.026    2.026    1.835
3.10     2.82     1.13
2000                   2.359    2.326    1.935
3.27     2.66     1.20
2005                   2.778    2.657    2.054
3.42     2.46     1.31
2010                   3.295    3.005    2.193
3.54     2.15     1.27
2015                  3.934    3.345    2.336
3.62     1.97     1.11
2020                   4.715    3.692    2.469
1I   Projection I assumes that the total fertility rate remains constart at the
1980 level of 5.800, and that the death rate declines from 14.8 per
thousand in 1980-85 to 6.1 in 2015-20.
2I   projection II (the standard case of 1984 WDR) assumes that the total
fertility declines at a moderate rate from 5.800 in 1980-95 to 3.017 in
2015-20. The mortality assumption is as in I.
3, Projection III (the rapid fertility decline/standard mortality decline case
of the 1984 WDR) has total fertility declining rapidly from 5.800 in
1980-85 to 2.160 in 2015-2020, with mortality remaining as in I and II.



- 49 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 2: MOST FREQUENT OUT-PATIENTS ILLNESSES IN 1981-1983
1981       1982        1983
(cases per thousand new attendees)
1.   Diseases of Respiratory System              211(1)      207(1)      241(1)
2.   Diseases of Digestive System                 96(2)       96(3)      108(2)
3.   Diseases of Skin & subcutaneous tiseue       95(3)       88(4)       87(5)
4.   Symptoms & Ill-defined conditions             91(4)     100(2)      103(3)
5.   Diseases of the Genitourinary Systems        83(5)       85(5)       96(4)
6.   Gastroenteritis                              54(6)       46(8)       55(8)
7.   Diseases of the Nervous System &
sense organs                               51(7)       51(6)      58(6)
8.   Injuries, Fractures & Dislocations           43(8)       46(7)       57(7)
9.   Gonorrhea                                    39(9)       40(9)       49(9)
10.  Diseases of the Musculoskeletal
System & connective tissue                 38(10)      38(10)     43(10)
Total Number of New Attendances                  615,034    601,694    554,659
Note: Figures in brackets indicate the ranking positions.



- 50 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 3: 1983 - IN-PATIENT INFANT AND CHILD MORBIDITY BY AGE AND SEX
% Age
Causes                                 All Ages         0-1    1-4    0-1       1-4
All causes -                        Total    3,911       208    285      5.3
Male     1,291      109    164
Female   2,620       99    123
1.   Diseases of Respiratory System    (T)           247       54     55
(N)        123       30     27    26.00   19.00
(F)        124       24     28
2.   Intestinal Infectious Diseases    (T)           180       59     37    28.36   13.00
(M)         85       31     19
(F)         95       28     18
3.   Signs, symptoms and
ill-defined conditions              (T)         344      25      43    12.00   15.00
(M)        159       14     27
(F)        185       11     16
4.   Nutritional deficiencies             (T)         45        8     24      4.00    8.50
(1)         31        5     16
(F)         14        3      8
5.   Burns                                (T)         61        5     28      2.50   10.00
(M)         33        3     17
(F)         28        2     11
6.   Tuberculosis                        (T)         192        3     10      1.50    3.5
(M)        132        2      6
(F)         57        1      4
7.   Poisonous & Toxic effects           (T)          46        1     14      0.5     5.00
(M)         24        -      9
(F)         26        1      5
8.   Viral Diseases                      (T)          32        1      9      0.5     5.00
(M)         14        1      3
(F)         18        -      6
9.  Other Digestive Ailments             (T)          94        5      5      2.5     2.5
(M)         44        2      4
(F)         50        3       1



- 51 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 4: 1982 TOP TEN CAUSES OF INPATIENT MORTALITY IN CHILDREN
No. of deaths No. of deaths Percentage
SNO.      Diseases                        0-1           1-4       0-1   1-4
1         Intestinal
infectious diseases            55             86       21    53
2         Diseases of the
respiratory system             23             11         9     7
3         Nutritional
deficiencies                   13             53         5    33
4         Perinatal death                 23              -        9     -
5         Ill-defined conditions          60             58       22    36
6         Neonatal causes                 35              -       13     -
7         Other causes                    58             12       22     7
Total                         267   '        162             100
Source:  MOR - 1982 Statistics (Health Information Annex)



- 52 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 5: NUMBER OF HEALTH FACILITIES BY DISTRICT AS OF DECEMBER 1983
Beds
Population             Health Centers                             Health  Population
Estimte   Hospitals  Urban  Rural   Others  Total  Hospitals  Center  Per Hospital
Bed
Butha-Buthe    89,880        2          1      6        0       7       195         1        460
Leribe        231,610        2          0     17        0      17       175       60       1,323
Berea          169,400       2          1     11        1      13       266        8         636
Maseru        260,510        6          3      18      10      31       670       18         388
Mafeteng       178,970       1          0      12       0      12       120       43       1,491
Mohale'Shoek  157,650        1          1     11        0      12        69       32       2,284
Quthing        103,050       1          0      5        1       6        90       49       1,145
Qacha'Snek     61,200        2          0      8        0       8       109       25         577
Mokhotlong      67,570       1          0      7        1       8        44       20       1,535
Thaba-Tseka    97.200        2          0      9        2      11       136       27         714
Lesotho      1,417,040      20          6    104       15     125    1,874       289



- 53 -
LESOTRO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 6:  HEALTH PERSONNEL BY DISTRICT AS IN DECEMBER 1983
DISTRICT          Population                          Nursing Staff
Estimates                            Nurse            Nurse   Health      Health
(1983)       Doctors   Nurses   Clinicians   PHN  hAits.  Inspector  Assts.
Butha-Buthe        89,880         4       15           4          1     20         0         2
Leribe            231,610         9       35           5          2     20          1        3
Berea             169,400        11       42           3          1     37         0         1
Haseru            260,510        62      216           9          7     92          5       17
Mafeteng          178,970         5       17           3          1      2          1        3
Mohale'Shoek      157,650         5       16           3          1      8          0        2
Quthing          .103,050         3        8           3          1      6          1        2
Qacha'Snek         61,200         3       22           1          2      5          0        1
Mokhotlong         67,570         2       20           2          1      9          0        1
Thaba-Tseka        97,200         2       14           4          1     18          1        1
Lesotho         1,417,040       106      405          37         18    217          9       33



- 54 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 7: HEALTH EXPENDITURE INDICATORS, MIDDLE INCOME
SUB-SAHARAN COUNTRIES
Country               Public Health Expenditures           Public and Private
Z of GNP         Zof Gov't.          Health Expenditures
as x of GNP
Lesotho               1.54(1983/84)   5.8 (Av. 79/80-    2.9 - 3.8(1983/84)
84/85)
Kenya                 1.9 (1978)       7.8 (1980)           3.7 (1975)
S-aegal               1.1 (1978)       5.2 (1981)          3.4 (1981)
Mauritania            1.7 (1978)       2.8 (1979)          -
Liberia               2.4 (1978)       6.1 (1979)           -
Zambia                2.5 (1981)       4.6 (1980)          5.6 (1981)
Angola                1.1 (1978)       -                    -
Nigeria               0.5 (1978)       2.2 (1979)          -
Zimbabwe              3.4 (1980)       6.4 (1982)          4.2 (1980)
Cameroon              0.8 (1978,       5.1 (1980)          -
Congo PR              2.0 (1978)       4.2 (1978)
Ivory Coast           1.6 (1978)       -
Botswana              -                5.0 (1983)          -
Malawi                2.0 (1982)       4.6 (1982/83)       4.0 (1982)
Source: World Bank Working Papers



- 55 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 8: MINISTRY OF HEALTH RECURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES
1979/80 - 1984/85
1. Current Prices (Maloti, millions)
Fiscal Year                      MOH Expenditures               Government Expenditures
Recurrent  Development  Total    Recurrent  Development  Total
1979/801/                4.6          0.5         5.1        68.8         61.5       130.3
1980/81r/                7.9          0.8         8.7       103.8         62.2       166.0
1981/82T/               10.3          1.7        12.0       117.1         66.6       183.7
1982/83T/               10.1          0.6        10.7       121.9         63.1       185.0
1983/84Z/               12.5          1.6        14.1       141.5         57.8       199.3
1984/851/               13.9          0.8        14.7       161.5         80.0       241.5
II. Constant Prices (Kaloti, millions)
Fiscal Year                      MOR Expenditures               Governent Expenditures
Recurrent  Development  Total    Recurrent  Development  Total
1979/80                  8.5          0.9         9.4       126.5        113.1       239.6
1980/81                 12.7          1.3        14.0       166.9        100.0      266.9
1981/82                 14.5          2.4        16.9       165.2         93.9       259.1
1982/83                 12.8          0.8        13.6       154.7         80.0       234.7
1983/84 (estimate)      13.9          1.8        15.7       157.1         64.2       221.3
1984/85 (projected)    13.9           0.8        14.7       161.5         80.0      241.5
III.  MOH  Share of Total Government Expenditure t%)
Fiscal                 Recurrent  Development  Total
1974/75-1978/79, av.    8.1           0.9         5.1
1979/80                  6.7          0.8         3.9
1980/81                  7.6          1.3         5.3
1981/82                  8.8          2.6         6.5
1982/83                  8.3          1.0         5.8
1983/84                  8.8          2.8         7.1
1984/85                  8.6          1.0         6.1
1979/80-1984/85, av.    8.2           1.6         5.8
i/ Actuals, from unpublished MOF accounts.
T/ Estimated Actuals.
T/ Projected.



- 56 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULIATION PROJECT
Table 9:  PROJECTED RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON GOL HEALTH SERVICES
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90
(Kaloti millions, constant 1984 prices)
Baselinel/                   13.9     14.1      14.2      14.4     14.6      14.8
1985 salary  djugtuent2/   -           1.6       1.6       1.6      1.6       1.6
sub-total                  13.9     15.7      15.8      16.0     16.2      :6.4
On-going projects
Hosopltal upgradiug3/     -          0.4       0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7
New Basotho ",ctora"/    -           0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.2
New Cl1lics5/             -          -         0.1      0.3       0.5       0.5
Upgraded Cllnics5/        -          -         0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1
CCCD Project6/  -         -          0.1       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2
Clinic Maintenance7/      -          0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1
HSA Support8/             -          0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2
',JW Programt/            -          0.2       0.2       0.3      0.4       0.5
sub-tot-l               -          1.0       1.7      2.0       2.3       2.5
Proposed project-
incremental recurrent    -           -         0.1      0.3       0.5       0.5
- cost savings            - _                 (0.1)    (0.4)    (0.7)    (0.9)
- net                      -         -         -        (0.1)    (0.2)    (0.4)
Projected total              13.9     16.7      17.5      17.9     18.3      18.5
I/   Baseline costs are derived by increaslng non-personnel costs by the annual
rate of popul-tion growth.
2/   Assumed to be 202 of the NMD  salary Bill.
_/   Excluding the new maternity wing and operating theater at QE II, and the
polyclinics progri.
4/   The costs of employing doctors returnlng from overseas training.
S,   Under the ADS project.
~/ Control of childhood communicable diseases project, funded by USAID.
t/  Ircreased maintenance costs under DANIDA project.
8/ Increased staffing for Health Service Area management team.
8/I  Planned expansion of numbers of village health workers.



- 57 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 10: COMPARISON OF PROJECTED AVAILABLE AND REQUIRED MOH RECURRENT FUNDS
(Maloti millions, constant 1984 prices)
Additional3/
Fiscal Yearl          Funds          Funds        Surpl:s/   r.st Recovery
Available'/   Required2/   (Deficit)          Needed
High    Low                  High  Low    High        Low
1984/85            13.9    13.9       13.9       0.0   0.0    0%         O0
1985/86            14.7    14.2       16.7       (2.0) (2.5)  12%         15%
1986/87            15.4    14.5       17.5       (2.1) (3.0)  122         17'
1987/88            16.3    15.0       17.9       (1.6) (2.9)   9%         16%
1988/89            17.2    15.5       18.3       (1.1) (2.8)   6Z         15%
1989/90            18.0    16.1       18.5       (0.5) (2.4)   3%         14%
I/   The high fLnd availability case assumes that overall GOL recurrent
expenditure would grow at an average annual rare of 5.4X, equal to that of
the period 1979/80-1984/85. The low fund availability case assumes that
overal GOL recurrent expenditure would grow by 2% In FY85/B6, 2.5% in
FY86/87, 3% in FY87/88, 3.5% In FY88/89 and .% in FY89/90.
2/   From lable 10.
3/   Increased cost recovery percentage (incremental to present cost recovery
level of 6%) that would be needed to eliminate potential funding gap.



- 58 -
IYDD  UL11  AND Pah1A[CN P =r
Tmble 11: Fhlmci  PImn by
IW     UNW   DU       nMA   TRIB         DC       MAcm              Total
I. DIVAflU   (BST:
A, Civil  i*                                     49.7           252.3  21M0.9*/  585.9    2990.8
B.  ituzM                                                24.5    69.0    74.9       36.9     205.3
C. Spizt                                        272.7   309.5    88.7   182.1       22.3     8S.3
D. &icles                                                21.6             85.7               107.3
I. Thclmical Aut.       68.7    73.9    80.2    4.2   359.8              710.3      63.5    1396.6
F. hellhips            101.5            68.3            199.8            27.8        1.8     399.2
G. S    _iu o           22.1                      6.j    18.1             25.1      25.1      95.9
L   "pliss                                              134.5            105.1      11.7     251.3
I. I  Cmpk Dov.                                                 178.2                        1782
J. &9Wya                                                                 30.2       30.2      60.4
K. 1? Projets                                                            113.8               113.8
L. Catrcqtie.                                                   152.9                        152.9
M. Nateials                                              54.9             42.1       2.7      99.7
N. mie,11.ismzs                                                                      8.4       L4
Tu1  Ilvtmt CDsts  192.3    73.9   148.5   369.1  1122.7   741.1  3500.0           788.5    6956.1
II.  1 1  tS7S:
A. Salaria                                                                         234.8     234.8
B. St h                                                                             7.7       787
C. vdil ,ow                                                                        10.5      10.5
D. 3qi. Mint.                                                                       62.5      62.5
Total Iacurret COtn    0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      482.5     482.5
Total I & n            192.3    73.9   148.5   369.1  1122.7   741.1  3500.0    1271.0    741L6
2 of ToAl               3.0      1.0     2.0      5.0    15.0    10.0    47.0       17.0     100.0
Incluxks $WW009 for c*mtructiw a ite w*s ud $102.0 for prfeuic.1 few.



- 59 -
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table 12: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
IDA FY and            Disbursement       Cumulative       X Cumulative
Quarter Ending        During Quarter    Disbursement    Disbursement
FY86
September 30, 1985         250                250              7
December 31, 1985            -                250              7
March 31, 1986              50                 250             7
June 30, 1986               50                 250             7
FI87
September 30, 1986          50                300              9
December 31, 1986           100               400             11
March 31, 1987             100                500              14
June 30, 1987               100                600             V
FY88
September 30, 1987         100                700             20
December 31, 1987          100                800             23
March 31, 1988             200              1,000             29
June 30, 1988              200               1,200            34
FY89
September 30, 1988         200              1,400             40
December 31, 1988          200              1,600             46
March 31, 1989             300              1,900             54
June 30, 1989              300              2,200             63
FY90
September 30, 1989         400              2,600             74
December 31, 1989          400              3,000             86
March 31, 1990             300              3,300             94
June 30, 1990               100             3,400             97
FY91
September 30, 1990         100              3,500            100 I
December 31, 1990                           3,500            100



- 60 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
JOB DESCRIPTION OF HEALTH PERSONNEL, KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
1.        Village Health Worker (Community):  A full-time
village resident who is selected by the community,
is usually not paid formally but receives free
medical treatment at more central facilities for
himself/herself and his/her immediate family, and
promotes sound health practices which include
limited preventive and curative services. It is
planned that the village health worker will be
trained and supervised by a nurse clinician during
a 2-4 week practical course at the health center
or clinic level. Presently training is being
conducted by health teams of the Health Service
Area hospitals, clinics and health centers.
2.        Nurse Assistant:  Graduate of a one year assistant
training program and certified by the nursing
council. As a part of the health care team, the
nurse assistant may assist the nurse with
registering patients and screening/managing minor
health problems; may manage drugs and medical
supplies, and assists with health education
activities.  The nurse assistant usually performs
his/her duties under the direct supervision of a
registered nurse.
3.        Nurse-in-Charge (health center or clinics):
General nurse/midwife, with at least six months of
supervised work as a staff nurse in a hospital
setting including OPD services. Responsible for
the overall operations of the health center or
clinic and manages routine curative services. In
some health centers and clinics has been replaced
by a nurse clinician.
4.        Nurse Clinician (health center or clinic):
Nurse/midwife with 15 months of additional
training which includes a 9 month module phase and
18 weeks of practical training in the district
Health Service Area hospital and in a supervised
health center. The nurse clinician is responsible
preventive, promotive and curative services through
fixed health centers and clinics; for training and
supervision of the village health workers in the
catchment areas; and for management of the health
center or clInic staff and health activities.
In certain health clinics or centers the nurse
clinician is assisted by other nurse/mid-wlves.



- 61 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
5.        Health Service Area Director:  Graduate of a
recognized medical school who has completed a one
year internship program; has prior experience in
the practice of general or community medicine and
preferably training or experience in medical
administration. This medical doctor provides
general supervision of health services in the
Health Service Area including the hospital and
health centers and clinics; plans and allocates
the hospital work assignments, and plans
management support services for health centers and
clinics with other members of the Health Service
Area.
6.        District Medical Officer:  Physician with same
qualifications as the Health Service Area medical
officer; has overall responsibility for planning,
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating all health
activities in the district; assures equitable
distribution of health services to the people and
the communities.
7.        District Health Inspector:  Technician with
diploma for public health inspector, preferably
supplemented with a diploma for meat and food
insnectiou; five years prior experience as health
assistant or assistant health inspector or
equivalent is recommended; has responsibility,
with the public health nurse, for control of
co-municable diseases; overall responsibility for
environmental health and sanltation services in
the district.
8.        District Public Health Nurse:  General
nurse/midwife with a diploma in public health
nursing; preferably supplemented by at least two
years practical experience in public health field
services; assisting with the planning; monitoring
and evaluation of health services within the
district; has responsibility, with the health
inspector for communicable disease control; has
overall responsibility for development and
coordination of preventive, diagnostic, treatment
and rehabilitative public health services.



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES
This annex sets out the details of training activities to be carried
out under the project. Table A presents the implementation schedule
for these activities.
I. Foreign Training
A. NHTC Staff
(i)   Management and Education Administration.  Training of the
counterpart Director NHTC in educational management and curricula
development. This person after necessary overseas training and
on-the-job training with the expatriate Director will takeover as
Director NHTC from the 4th year of the project.
(ii)  Faculty members.  Training of selected faculty members for
teaching skills in specialized disciplines like pharmacyland
medical laboratory training to replace short-term volunteers now
serving as teachers in these fields.
(iii) Special discipline training. To train local nationals in skills
for which no local training will be provided at NHTC but there
are identified shortages in the health system like X-ray
technicians, public health nurses, anesthetist and dental
technicians.
(iv)  Training of physicians in Public Health.  To train Basotho
doctors trained abroad in public health, before taking up
positions as District Medical Officer of Health or Director HSA.
B. Organization and Management
(i)   Training in health system management, computer programming and
financial management to provide local skills, continuity in
management of these programs and to replace the long-term
consultant by the third year of the project.
(ii)  Training in special skills like radio production, photography,
graphic art and audio-visual maintenance to develop in-house
expertise for campaign and material development for Health & FP
IEC support. Training in these skills will be provided within
the region.
C. Health and Family Planning Services
(i)   Special training will be provided in family planning management,
laparoscopic sterilisations and family planning IEC to Improve
the management capability and technical skills of the local staff
to provide support to family planning efforts.



- 63 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
(ii)  A senior epidemiologist/physician will be trained in tuberculosis
management and control. This person will work closely with the
expatriate TB advisor in developing a national TB control program
and then take over as a Director National TB control program in
the third year of the project.
D. Pharmaceutical Supply System
(i)   A junior manager from NDSO will be trained in material
management, inventory control, procurement management and
logistics to provide second line management support at NDSO.
II. LOCAL TRAINING
A. Organization and Management
(1)   Financial Management Seminars.  Annual semlnars for HSA staff on
the decentralisation of budgets and accounts and preparation of
HSA implementation plans. It will focus on the ilportance of
health and financial data collection and the role of HSA staff in
providing the required information on time.
(ii)  Computer Awareness Trainlng.  Special training program will be
arranged at Institute of Development Management to train the
Health Planning and Statistical Unit staff on handling of
computers and the software.
(iii) Health Information Back-up Training. These seminars will be held
at HSA for HSA health care staff and nurse clinician/senior nurse
in charge of Health Centers on the revised forms and procedures
for collecting the health information and the importance of such
information both to MOH and the field workers.
B. Health and Family Planning Services
(i)   Training in family planning techniques and procedures.  A series
of three weeks special seminars will be held to train all nurse
clinicians/senior nurses presently in charge of the health
cllnics (GOL, PHAL and LPPA) in family planning techniques,
including IUD insertion. In addition, these persons will be
provided training on family planning IEC. These nurse clinicians
would then train 625 VHWs, average of five drawn from each health
clinic catchment area, in family planning education and services,
immunization, oral rehydration, breast-feeding, infant growth
monitoring, weaning food practices and tuberculosis follow up.
(ii)  IEC Seminars:
a) Nursing School and Teacher Training College Tutors.  Special
training courses will be held to train selected tutors from the
Nursing School and Teacher Training Colleges in health and family
planning education to provide trained tutors in these institution



- 64 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
for training of nurses and school teachers in health and family
planning education.
b) USA Staff. All HSA are being provided with cassette players,
projectors, handheld equipment and family plannin% education
kits. Special seminars will be held to train all the health care
staff at HSA on interpersonal communication and the use of
teaching aids and print materials In group meetings to promote
family planning.
(iii) Tuberculosis Control:
a) Training of Laboratory Technician. Special training courses
will be arranged at Central Laboratory at Maseru for all the
medical laboratory technicians working at HSAs on the use of
fluoroscope microscopes, the case finding techniques and the role
of laboratory support in screening programs.
b) Nurses. Special training will be provided to the nurses in
identification, treatment and follow up of TB cases. These
nurses would man the screening unlts to-be established under the
project.
c) Special Seminars. Special seminars will be held for labor
officials, other staff involved in screening of migrant labor and
communimty leaders to increase awareness of the tuberculosis
problem and to improve follow up at community level.
C.  Pharmaceutical Supply System
(i)   Pharmacy Technicians.  Pharmacy technicians presently working at
district and USA level will be trained at NDSO Mafeteng in
storage requirements, inventory control, ordering procedures,
shelf-life management, use of revised national formulary and
onward distribution to periphery.



- 65 -
TANE A
Pae 1 of 2
JM     : HAT  AND NOMr    PDEC
-           -DW  - TLAhD  SGEXIE
Description of                          Nbier  DhwatiDn
TrainizE                                 of        of                 Nunbw perYew
Persons  Carse  1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 19B9/90 Total
TRAIII  MVR NDMC
A. O ueseas Staff Tralinrg
(i) tkimt & Education
Ak. - comterpat
Director                            1      48        1        1                               1
(ii) Faulty                             2       12                 2                               2
(iii) Specia Disciplie Tmaini±          20       36        5       5        5        5             20
(iv) Trainrg of Me in HI                8       12        2        2       2        2
OTHIER O'VEREASE TLAINDIM
B.           
a) Dwentral1zed fiscal
uanqpment
(I) Finanial tralnhg
In uuument                       1       24                 1                               1
b) Health Information
(L Health Syst;s                     1       96           ,    1                                1
(Ui) Cacpter Prgrr                    1       24                 1                               1
C. Helth & FE Services
a) Nl  & FP Service Deivey              4        6        1        1       1        1              4
(i) Fnily Plnig Mgt.                 4        6        1        1       1        1              4
(i)i FP/I3C Lapanrmpc/
Sterilization
ter lniqus                       2        4                 1       1                       2
b) 1;C Pregran
(i) Rallo Pruduction                 1       36                 1                               1
(ii) Graphic Art                      1       36                 1                               1
(iii) PhDtgraphic Art                  1       24                 1                               1
(iv) Auoviosual Maint.                2       24                 1       1                       2
c) National TB Central
Program
(i)TBmagelent                        1       48        1                                        1
d) Drug Supply & Distrfiution
(i) Material M1a,_t                  1       12                 1



- 66 -
TAKlE A
Page 2 of 2
USaD   -  FAIMH AMD PUATLN  D
MANP        D       - TRAINDE SaJ
Descaiptii  of                         Pier    I        atim
Trainuig                                 Of        of                 Nirber per Year
envoomt                               tPersons   Course   1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89 1989/90 Ibtal
IWAL TRAND
A. raWnization and
a) Decntmlized Finacial Vgt.
(i) Firuancial Mgt.Seminars                  60                 2)       23       23              60
b) Health Irhformnati~m
(i Coquuter Auinzerss                6        1.                 6                                 6
(ii) PLaalth -Info. Bade-up          160       1/2              160                160            160
B. HImlth & FP Services
a) WI~JFl grvice Del.
()Hu-se clixicianIn FP              125       3                 42       42        41            125
(I) VW ISnfamily plmming             625       1/3              625      625      625            625
b) IFC Program
(i Bitors training Paalth &
FP education                     23       2                           23                      2)
(II) IEC training for HS
staff                           108       1/2               54        54                     108
c) National TB Control Program
(iL) abDratory Techniician           15       2                 [5                 [5             1.5
Cii) Ilirses training in lB
screening                         5       1/2                5                                 5
(iii) SeinarB for labor
officials and other
coimmityleI  rs                 160                         60        60       40            160
C. i3anaetLcal Supply System
a) Drug Supply & Dlstrlibtlim           36       1                  is       18                      36
b) Petraining of 5M                     18       1                            9        9             18



-67 -
ANNEX III
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PERSON/MONTHS OF CONSULTANT SERVICES
Project Component and                                            Person/months
Subject of Consultancy                           PYI      PY2       PY3       PY4      Total
A. Organization & Management
a) Personnel Review
(i)  Personnel Management (2)              24                                    24
b) Health Information
(i)  Computer Programmer                   12        12                          24
(ii)  Health Information                     2                   2                  4
(iii)  Health Surveys                         2                   2                  4
c) Decentralized Financial Mgt.
(i)  Financial Management                   3         3                            6
d) Comunications
(i)  Installation Engineer                 12                                     12
(ii)  Maintenance Engineer                  12                                     12
B. Health & Family Planning Services
a) Clinic constrtiction & Renovation
(i) Danish Volunteers (2)                  24        24                           48
b) Health & FP Service Delivery
(i) Client Record Specialist                          3                            3
c) IEC
(i)  IEC Management Planner                  1.5                                   1.5
d) National TB Program
(i) Tuberculosis Specialist                12        12                           24
(ii) Resistance Research                     3                                      3
e) Population Activities
Ci) Special Projects Coordinator            2         2        2         2         8
C. Pharmaceutical Supply System
a) Pharmaceutical Logistics                     3                  3                  6
D. Manpower Development
a) NHTC
(i) Director and curriculum specialist   12          12        12                36
TOTAL                                             124.5      18       21         2      215.5
Note:In addition, services of LDTC, a local parastatal organization will be contracted by the
MOH for the entire project period. LDTC will provide specialist services and develop,
pretest and produce campaign materials and radio programs for family planning.



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
(M 000)
sae Costs                   Foreign Exduera
85/86  86/7   87/8B   B8/8? 89/90 Total         Z     aunt
I. INJESTIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS               19007.7 2v353.1  798.7  240.3    - 4v399.8   73.1  39217.9
B. FURNITURE                    43.8  236.2   40.1    5.7    -   325.8   82.1    267.5
C. EGUIPMEIIT                    8.4  66.0  6U.4    1.7    - 19344.6  100.0  1344.6
D. VEHICLES                        -  137.0   31.7        -    -   168.7  100.0    168.7
E. TECDOICAL ASSISTANCE        493.9 1,001.5  422.1  299.8 54.4 24271.7   93.9  2i133.1
F. FELLWSKIPS                  109.6  287.2  159.6   59.0 29.5   644.9   99.5    642.0
6. SEMINARS NOD WORKMSPS           -   83.9   27.5   37.6    -   149.0    0.0           0.0
H. SUPPLI£5                     56.2  112.3   97.4   82.4 41.2   389.5   91.5    356.2
I. IEC CMFAIGN DEVELOPlENT      17.0   90.7   90.7   52.2 22.2   272.7   54.3    148.1
j. SURVETS                         -   34.5   28.3   28.3    -    91.0    0.0           0.0
K. FP PROJECTS                     -   52.2   51.1   40.0 23.7   167.1    0.0           0.0
L. CONTRACEPTIVES               43.1   55.0   61.7   79.7    -   239.6  100.0    239.6
H. rATERIILS                       -   19.5   51.2   51.2 24.4   146.3   97.2    142.3
N. MISCELLAIEOUS                   -    5.9    2.7    2.7  1.3    12.6    0.0           0.0
Total IIPJES1IENT COS           1779.7 54135.1 2i531#2  990.4 196.8 10v6.2   81.5  8v660.0
II. RECUD  T COSTS
A. SALARIES                    16.8   35.4   76.0  150.3 55.8   334.3    0.0           0.0
D. STIPEIS                        -       -   27.1   54.1 27.1   108.3    0.0          0.0
C. VEHICLE OPER. AND NAINT.       -    3.5   64.6   70.1  7.0   147.1   54.3          79.9
D. EDUIPHENT  AINTENAWCE          -       -   26.0   40.4  18.4    84.7   54.3        46.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS              16.8   38.9  195.6  314.8 108.2   64.4   18.7    125.9
Total BASELI  COSTS              19796.5 59174.0 2,26.8 19295.2 305.0 12,297.6   77.8   8785.9
Physical Contingencies          123.5  32B.8  137.1   34.3  1.0   624.8   76.1    475.2
Price Continencies              167.2 19030.0  84.9  555.6 164.3 2i766.0   72.4  2,001.8
Total PROJECT COSTS              29097.2 6,532.8 3,712.8 1,95.2 470.4 14688.4   76.7  11,262.9
=:-Z=  =_           Z=v          ==z --=  .----    === C
Taxes                            72.9  160.3   80.4   37.3  11.5   362.4    0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchanse              1,684.7 5,221.1 29924.8 1,183.3 249.0 11i262.9    0.0      0.0



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUMKARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
Totals Includins Contatiiws                lotals Inclding CUntW166s
ttS    36/87  S7iU   M2M  190   t)l    am    KM    PA   unt my 0  let.
maa.m  amam ..ma..a.a maaa mamm am mmmmmm... aummm  min . _aa   aa. mama........ _aa
I  ItW5NTNW COSTS
4. CIVIL MS                  1,227.4 13139.6 Is 16.2  315.6    -   921.1   619.9 1 W5.6  590.!194.3    - 2.99.
*. FUIITUIE                      0.0  293.7   54.3    8.4    -   406.!    25.3  14S.3   27.4  4.3    -  205.3
C. ED nT                         9.6  31S.3  92.6    2.5    - 1.733.0         4.9  413.3  45.9  1.3    -  175.3
D. EHICS                           -  169.7   42.3       -    -   212.5         -   B5.7   21.6    -    -  107.3
. ITOIICAL SSISTUCC            53.5 1,192.0   543.5  419.1 92.5 2,743.2   271.0  57.4  274.5 212.0 41.7 193%..
F. FULeIPS                     119.0  338.9  205.3   62.5 44.6    90.3    60.1  171.2  103.7 41.7  22.5  3"9.1
6. EuIis AO MSNWS                  -  101.5   36.2   54.0    -   191.3          -   51.3   13.3 2P.3    -   96.9
N. SgUC=S                       61.0  13W.1  125.5  115.6 62.5   497.4    30.3   67.    63.4  5.4  31.6  251.2
1. IC WAIU1  IKEELWIT           13.5  106.2  111.0   73.9 34.2   352.S         .3   54.7   59.4 37.3  17.3  111.2
J. SRUODS                         -   41.7   37.3   40.7    -    119.6          -   21.1   13.3  20.5    -   60.4
K. E9p FU.CTS                     -   63.2   67.4   57.5  37.2   225.3          -   31.9   34.1 29.0 1U1.  11.3
L* CUNRACEMIIEs                 46.3   64.9   79.4  111.6    -   392.7    23.6   37.1   40.1 56.3    -  152.9
N. MTRIMS                         -   21.0   65.1   71.7 34.9   197.4          -   11.6  3I.3 3.2  15.6   9.?
N. KISELLINOIS                    -    7.1    3.5    3.3  2.1    16.6           -    3.6    1.3  1.?  1.1    8.4
lotal ZIKSTIENT COSTS           2061.9 6,435.6 13451.0 1.427.6 29.9 13.732.Y  1,44.9 3275.5 1,742.9 721.0 151.5 69n5a
ii. ~nm airs
A. SOMIES                      13.4   42.1  100.2  216.0 87.5   464.9        9.3   21.7   50.6 109.1 44.2  234.3
I. Slum                          -       -   35.7   77.3  42.4    135.9        -      -   23.0 39.3 23.4   73.7
C. VEaUOE CR. USmINT.             -    4.4   90    104.2  11.3   210.9         -    2.2   45.9 52.6  5.7  16.5
5. EUUIPE   miuw                 -       -   35.0   59.5  29.3   123.3         -       -   11.7  30.0  14.8   U2.5
Total kEOJn   OSTS                 13.4   47.3  261.3  457.4 170.4   n5.5        9.3   23.9  132.2 231.1 06.1  4Q.6
mamma  -mama mamma mamma m_ ..aMMa mamma m-ma           m --        am   m, g           -
lotal MEn COSTS                 2017.2 4.5)2.1 3M128 t1,35.2 470.4 146U1.4  1,054.1 3,2".4 135. 952.1 237.6 7,413.4
_am  magma.............. amamaum amamama  mam mm..m   mam.. maa    am.s mam  mama.......... mai



- 70 -
ANNE IV
Page 3 of 5
LESOCrHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
(M'000)
Base Costs                    Totl
85/86  86/87  B7/88  88/89 99/910            LUSS '000)
33233  33333  333ZE  3333=33 33    333333  3333
A. MN ORGANIZATION AID  WA     T
1. PERSOISI. WIAGEEINT                         125.7  125.7       -       -    -    251.5      127.0
2. HELTH INFRMATION                             29.5  195.7   94.1    4.%  2.0    385.8        194.9
3. DECENTRALIZED FINAICIAL MIAGENATh            71.3  153.7   69.4    6.5  3.3    304.2        153.6
4. COINICATIWIS                                 95.1  350.3   6.3   663  37    581.8           2938
5. P113.ECT CORDINARI                           23.7   47.5   47.5  14246 23.7    285.0        143.9
Sub-Total NON DRMIIZI0N AND NNGENENT              345.4  873.0  277.2  280.0 32.6  1i808*2        913.3
3. H:ALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
1. LINIC CONSTRUCTION AnD REIDUATION           337.0  696.7  396.6  247.7    -  14678.0        847.5
2. NICH I FP SERVICE DELIVERY                   43.1  1440   107.4   79.7    -    374.3        189.0
3. IEC PRORM                                    43.7  267.5  151.1  112.6 67.8    642.7        324.6
4. NATIONAL TS PROGRA                          124.7  374.7  183.4   97.7 48.9    829.4        413.9
5. POPULATION ACTIVITIES                           -   13.6   82.6   71.5 23.7    261.4        132.0
Sub-Toal EALTH NID FAMILY PLNININS SERVICES       548.5 19566.5  921.1  609.2 140.4  30785,7   1,912.0
C. PHARACEUTICAL SUPPLY SYSTEM
to DUIJE NWACTtItING                               -   22.9  316.2       -    -    339.1       171.2
2. DRUG MD StPLY DISTRIBUTION                  399.4  520.6  116.8        -    -  110..8       S23.6
Sub-Total PURAEICAL StPPLY SYSTEM                 39.4  543.4  433.0                  I 3 1*375.8  694.9
D. NANPO   OEUOPENLWT
1. NATIONAL HEALTH TRAINING CENTER             393.6 I7M.6  908.3  309.5 102.5  3v*46.6   1*760.9
2. TRAININ6 FOR IHTC STAFF                      45.0   92.1   66.6   59.0 29.5    282.2        142.5
3. OVESEAS TRAINING                             64.5  209.9   93.0       -    -    367.5       185.6
4. LOCAL TRAINING                                  -   79.1   27.5   37.6    -    144.2         72.8
5.  OIWr  PLANING                                  -   47.3       -       -    -      47.3      23.9
S*-Total  HNOIER  VELOWN                          503.2 2191.1 1,095.4  406.1 132.0  4,327.8   24185.7
Total BSELINE   S    .                            1,796.5 5174.0 2426.8 19295.2 305.0 11297.6    *705.8
Ptwsical Contirgecies                            123.5  329.8  137.1   34.3  1.0    624.8        315.5
Price Continlcies                                167.2 1v030.0  848.9  55.6 164.3  20766.0   lt397.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                               2P0U7.2 6,532.9 34712.8 19885.2 470.4  14*688.4   7'418.4
~=  =s=  === m=3S z                  ===
Tas                                               72.9  160.3   80.4   37.3  il.5    362.4       193.0
Foreign Exlrdn                                 1,684.7 5,221.1 2,924.8 1*183.3 249.0  11t262.9   5*688.4



- 71 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 5
LESOTHO: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
Toals Intludani ContMiuuunc                Totls lniludtau  Contiuwsaws
(IK '0002                                 cuss *1)
513    We?7  17/f   OM3   9/90 Total    .5/6  3/67   17/p  u/ m"otal
a. 111  IMZI21Al 3116
1. 9iIL IM IfI                                136.6  143.5       -      -    -   215.0    69.0   75.0         -    -    -  144.0
2. IE.TH lWmTlOUI                               32.1  235.2  122.1   91.4  3.1   433.9    1.2  I11.1   61.7 46.2  1.3  244.4
3. KCENITLIZED FINIChL fiIUN                    77.4  111.7    W.5    9.4  5.1    63.21    3.1   91.1   45.2  4.7  2.6  133.4
4. PI lICaTIS                                  103.3  421.7   90.6    3.7  5.9   720.2    52.2  213.0   45.1  49.3  3.0  363.7
S. PCIT CUISTIUO                                25.3   5.1   61.1   19.6 36.0   371.6    13.0  23.3   30.9 100.3  i3.2  191.2
lub-TStlII fIhMZAT2     NANDAIEIENT               375.2 1.043.1  363.4   391  50.0 2P230.9   139.5  526.1  193.5 201.6 25.3 1W.2
A. IGELIN NO FMllLt FLIAI      E3V1S
1. OiniE  C01lw ilo he lWU    T1131T           406.5  924.0  375.0  396.6    - 2.302.2   205.3  46.7  290.4 200.3    - 1.162.7
2. mi / nt K3VM KELIW                           46.0  173.3  141.1  111.6           472.3    23.6   87.5   71.3 56.3    -  230.8
3. lENC "                                       4*.5  324.4  196.2  139.0 103.5  LU0.6    24.0  163.1    9.1   .3 52.3  419.5
4. 431153  TN nM                               135.5  453.0  .37.3  137.3 74.6  1,0312    61.4  223.3  119.9  0.6  37.7  324.3
3. POLATIIN tCT1V2TIS                              -  100.3  167.9  102.5 37.2   34.9           -   30.6   34.5 51.3  13.3  173.2
S.j.Total IC.iTA FNILY PWUCI  EVIlS               636.3 1,974.9 1p257.5  90.4 215.3 4,90.5   321.4   97.4  65.1 4S7.0 121.7 2.320.4
C. niAC1IUmL uw. SsIuEN
1. *A   llTcIE                                     -   21.3  427.0       -    -   435.3         -   14.1  213.7    -    -  229.
2.   B    OMUU    IISIIUTN                     436.4  673.7   13.0       -    -  4291.l   245.7  342.3   12.3    -    -  670.7
5gb-laW  PI_JlEUAL GMT 5TSEII                     416.4  707.0  590.0       -    - 19M.3   245.7  337.1  293.0    -    -  966.7
D. rIwW   K.W~
1. 4ll3 wL WAIN TUNINS  UltW                   470.3 2.311.5 19260.4  443.1 160.5 4*645.7   237.5 19147.4   U.6 223.3  31.0 2t34.3
2. 13U1111; FM  WE STAFF                        43.9   96.T   85.6   32.5  44.6    N.6       24.7   4.9   43.3 41.7 22.5  131.1
3. 01LM  13611111                               70.1  247.8  119.7       -    -   437.6    35.4  125.2   AM.4    -    -  221.0
4. LE   IMhNI                                      -   9.7   36.2   54.0    -   I16.0           -   43.3   13.3  27.3    -    n3.9
S. 1W111 ifI.IU                                    -   33.3       -      -    -    33.3         -   23.2       -    -    -   23.2
kb-Totl NW WA3t IM                                539.2 2,07.8 15@I.9  379.6 m.1 54.13.7   297.6 1.418.1  731.    .7 103.6 2,373.3
TSUI mm1  aEs                                     2,337.2  .3)2.3 39712.8 1,35.2 470.4 14613-4  1.054.1 3.29.4 I 37.2  3.1  M. 7,411.4
wne_sms    .a... _anm    was_. ._e lameines  vessels      U.. Eagamam  _m



:LI1 Widl .0 SI 4dP
..........                           W       I'S         I PI1ZDS i:                                a    ...  .    t .... .     .... ..  ..O  ...d                 O  .    .t!I                                 
-   ILt       -,N        -U9          t'  *:u  i-n                            I-SI          ,1 d     ,l  -44 S ij             I'l                          I              9                                                     6E
4s&aIn$  :- flits;  tts;*t    8.fh.  ..  *..u.., S  itt  *PtIt.iSi*  S~flSu& .fl  *ISS~tt;I~Iti  8tSI;;iiifl      ...S........ S.......
aSSI  S U  GUI  lift  9-fl    sM-i   VIllA    flU            *5,3        tEl-I        l5~~~~~~~~~xi  'Up  a£4 ut.tSg     SLi           tile            I'm            013l         515                       liii) 625ro   lel'
VI (1          -         -l       clo       Oldl       Ill1            Aii               .1       e"           C111   :i6         6,ts            -'i          at"$IAd'.   I
CatSI    t-La       Lint       'lt     I'm       *-ei1  s-9Wit              igl            ii:            sa        s-r      I bin    1at-l            I 15          a in            I 14I(a m                                            lam)$W   9  imu '
I*sSl                         .                  IIIb      .-Klflu -19                                                                                                                l             111a    9an Intern *)
IKE  -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 .0*'                                                                                                                                                                                                    IlkiuM   9
1*152 aSS II
rural   .            w         L          W      n    I S il                lt              I          E             eI        n       tSi            IWsnILsI                                                  ii-lm   tohjiWI 'sg
I-    ili   -J         -l"       .i        -                  . I%I,I          I'i    I          f:      #1           i-s1    1101       669. w6  o                                    I LS           l*lr                               siabimIe   SI
- - - -   -- - . . . .       ...                 . . .. .  . . . . . . ..-. .                              . .     .  . . . . .   . . . .   .   . .I.. . . . . . . . . .
_____  ilLS                                           -              -                        *142~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                        cO&5351w  iII  I
vet  -                .~~~~~~i'  .la     S 1       -.                                                                -         .Sa                                                                                                     pup
i-sect  .   .       awls    laO                IMi                       CL,          t~~~~~~~~~        ~~~       ~     ~       ~     ~~~~~~~Ill    SCSI  tI      £012  K                                       ItbalUl  2)
UPI 0 184~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  bi S 
Ilmu        vUl warn  usM ai 31536t  ahIS m an                         n        SuLitS Ai ~IJU   211  321mM  Slflfl)    *215                                                bitnla    eblb    memor
maui  tUD                --- ------ ---- -                           Km'f                         21141                   *                 SuinmI
...              .....                                                                    IDIM  m:aww sUMS aowib                                            tAann a0 tityles a
tnaan iwLi4 44 )SJ5P LI""
s,rus mizwv.gto awnD
Al flNUY



- 73 -
CEART 1
LESOTHO: HEALTI AND POPULATION PROJECT
DELIVERY  OF HEALTH  SERVICES - ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTRY  OF   EAL TH
--------SEC                                            C W  L   ---     ---
_________PLAZNIZG  I                                      ,zco
GCN.ADN j  {   DIEPUTY '  .    AND       r--- OF K       I,
d , F.RWEIrs I  SAT!STICS| I       ERCES            SE'ICR             SOR 
mAIc; *                                                           SEICSERETARY i  A iJTY  I    DEPUTO
.  AECTOR     |   D:RSOf
(NENAL ExEAL.8    (Supt. :29 rr
W          ~~~~SlNtVCES)       1l0mp ica 
199i9i                                                                                       '.~~~~~~~~~~~~saIcs
EIVI"    AIR   RUAX4SPORT   ErR.
DEPUTY DRECTORS OFrs
s!   Ir=                          i    I       NURSING        j DR''G A.ID i              C    2
*DISEASE .; L:UORATORT    HBSALT   i  rmnILY           jERVCES        I         :I
CO       | SERVICES   iEDUCATION                     tCgjFCMRS5I1         5>E   I|Gt 
~~I   ~        ,, ,T           I                                                        .
COMMILZ-L                                                                     -rLCJO
2,_u_| , i~. ._. I  ,  i , giurII                                          Fmi._,cz.-    P-.   .    -- x
,  >C     .nATHy                 Z               : LO                  UO       '40   :   .3.  .. ...,..
;DSLASES   BMTJ i________ *4r I .                             QE. Xl     Qf       EL      -2RS: 'lChI0
OFFICER                                       130MW~~~L=1H  UR
| DI5SRICT |                                            | DS-R. i 
tU:OI.AL    -   - - ------------- -'-U--- 'L
-                                 I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orriCcR  I                               1  0Mz
DIOSTRICT           0! OSSRICT |                                 ZrTrt|;::STRroC 
HEALSH   X   3 NORSING t  I      | PW~~KELTCI        SI-Ara  j  
j Z4SPSCTOR}       oFFIcEa           I        HEALTH           : 's--rA 
NURSE                      I
I     n. S.A. S                                           j a.S..
| zcrcti j________--------
P(HSpTAL?- - I-H-R-I-G-A-M-N---
U.S...
I HS.A IIX.'..                               H.S.R .             H.5. A.|
,-G crrC R i       OFFICEI |            I                       S A   ,
~ CL CI1;S'                               - - - - - - -      -
>Swkm  Ctm)   I                                           I COM-
i                                   1=:  ,~~~~~~~~CXMT
IVZ* - - - - - - - - - - -- L
At: 3A and lHealtk Center  .evets. both ;;awrnnent anil non-sovtrnmran c ormnLatiofl
are Included in heattn catna do.ivery s,vsteI.
-lj/;qV2



- 74 -
CHART 2
LESOTHO: HEALTH AZID POPULATION PROJECT
ADDITIONAL STAFF REQUIREKENT DUE TO PROJECT ACTIVITIES AND TIHING
COMPONENT AND STAFF CATEGORY          FY85/86       FY86/87    FY87/88    FY88/89    FY89/90
1 2 3 4      1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4
A. Organization & Management
a) one Health Information             x
Specialist
b) one Computer Programmer            x
c) one Deputy Proj. Coordinator
(6 months before project)
d) one Project Accountant             x
B.  Health and Family Planning Services
Information, Education and
Communication
a) one Graphic Artist                   x
TB Control Program and Other
Infectious Diseases
a) one TB Control Directcr              x
C.  Manpower Development
National Health Training Center
a) one Counterpart Director             x
b) three Faculty Heads                                x
c) three Tutors                                      x
d) Additional three Tutors to                                              x
replace volunteers
e) Secretaries:
(i) one for Expatriate Director    x
(ii)  four for Admin. & Faculty                              xa/           x
f) one Administrative Officer                                  x
g) one driver                                                  x
h) six cleaners/cooks                                          x
a/ Two
|/ Two more



- 75-                       CHART III
Page 1 of 6
TESDF: HFE   AND POE!ATiN   W
Iwpletrici Sckwize
R        ER r YXERMI  -FJW        PY1          P Y2PO                   PY4
VXICACrIVIE                 C1              1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1  3 4
A. MMI MNIZATIc & MANAG4ENr~
1. Per M
1.1 Chzpleilon of CaoSultats
Revisew                                       nnnnro
1.2 avosirg of Reviaew
2. Belth Infatuintfrxi
2.1 CslatCus:
Ca~±er Prorammr
Eialth Informioc                                 x
Hialth Surveys                                  x                               DC
2.2 N. Houehld Survey:
I         0      ~~~~~Dev.                            Dx
g      ~Priizlz  QtiAxmaire                                X
printing                                          s
Pre-!zwy Tra1id8                                  20C
Survey Duratimn                                     xooao 3oooaoao0   acacoo
MAlysis                                                                         x
3. Dcetaid Fineca
3.1 E _sulant Financial
4.  cmlati
4.1 Camltats:
I=ual Ion    E icc
Meme W                                             -
Cowp. of 3ist'1. of
16 IY sets                                -
5. Projec Coordintion
5.1 Project Cooinator                ,aoooDoooCo aoaoaoooa= XooaooXo xoX X_aooa    oaoo
5.2 Depuy Project Coordnator              Cooo                 oo=oo                 c
5.3 Project Accountant            xC  otDOaOaODOaO   OOOOODOO               o
1/ Project iiplementation Is projected to start In Septeer 1985. Mmis, FY1 wadd nm frau
Sqiember 1, 1985, tbrouh August 1986, and siullarly for othr project yens.



- 76 -
CHART III
Page 2 of 6
TZSOM: H} AND W                    ERDM=
PM        )EARl/   P l-lM        PY1           PY2        PY3           PY4
KEYAAaT1V=                    QTAE           1 2 34123 41 2 3 4 12 3 4 1 2 3 4
B. HEAILM & F/MLY PFAl;D  :WI
1. Clinic Coasztrion & Renatimi
1.1 TechniclB Assistace:
DKdb Voluzteers (2)                             oz               o
2. MEi & F? Sexle IDeivery
2.1 CQ3astat FP & RE clien
records                                                          x
3.      Prgram
3.1 Cnsultmts:
is:    E t l                                      xc
In-ervc Training rasxgi Dev.                        xx           Ic          DC          DC
Proane       of Equdpm                         x
3.2 IJT Ctract                          oc                                        -
-i                                                                             = cxD
materal .ve.opt                                     xxooo    ODaOaOUC                 -
1adio Production                                    2000000  00000000000      -       -------- M0
4. National TB program
4.1 CcmmLdtant:
13 Qxtrol                                       i - innnr0O0 M0000000000
istake Rmrxx
4.2 Prcuewat  & Supply of
EquIpment                                      20C  20C
4.3 EssFtial 13 Drug
first tw yewrs                               3COOOOM 2X00000000CC  xx
4.4 Rw mterlals for local proessirg                                         2ooooowcxoooor
5. Papulatica Activitie
5.1  woLltant - FP Secial
Project Coordinator                              2cCxx                     oc          DC
5.2 EP ProjeIts:
(i) t    Affairs Burea                                    cc
(ii) P,ol1ation Ilicy                           =000000000C  200000000C  1000000CM00         M00
(iii) Emea1 VP 1etrzg                                               I XX OCC XX
(iv) PP SD CLnical Study                       3cmaKXXXX                              X=X
(v) CB)D  rojeas                               -n-                     -x xxxxxxxxC x0C
(vi)  Lnical Paphiets & Mct.                       xx                       _         2mt
(vii) MD FP (kietAtirac                                    1c                       -
(vii) LA Oki.      ian              Ix                               I     I      cD
Y/ Project inplaieiat-ici Is projected to start in eVteter 1985.      s, FyI w.otd zm frcm            1, 1985
tlrutgh AuguEt 1986, and slillady for ±tbr project yema.



- 77 -
CHART I II
Page 3 of 6
1COM. W&ZH AND FOPA11IO WF
~1Nymetacn Sdh&da
1.1 aummunt of FqukviT                               P!2          F!
1.2 IiutaUstion of Equipmt                                          20K
2. Proctim~ of 3B Drp etc.                                                     Inqanumaooogaocooaaoooaoc
3. D NM
3.1 PouE:rm    of EPiYpme                P       3Y
3.2 I3 tulJla23n of 2  3pm1 t                   34
4. Czltat:
4.1 Hrm.otlcal Lqogstfcs                                    Ux                U
1. Nicoa1 Ihaith TralidW Cater
1.1 Ozau4tut - ItLre±or                           Maaac g    o C --------oa --Ioaoaoooooca
Appt. of exxmerpart lXzectoc                   U
Appt. of Faculty & SiVoct Staff-
1.2 Clidsslorg of Tr&fL1g Ckr.                                             --
2.  faidz)   of NHLV Sff Ovenai
2.1  F erpnrt Mrecar EOC DC
2.2 Staff
2.3 Spec1ul EMsdpIia                              -innnowoooao        =aooc      laooo      M oaoaoooao
2.4 Eiydsldus ki iblic Hma1tb                                x           Ux           Ux          U
j PrOjeC  4U1qiMzatlam  Is pROJeCtu to gtWt In Sqiteuer 1985. Mmzz, FYi Wa1iLd nu. from
s    t   1, 1985, thrug &got 1986, a- atmilaly for             c _ojea  y



- 78 -
CHART III
PaRe 4 of 6
IESON: HEA[ AND 1OPULATIU  WD
Lx]eumtAtl  Sciedtde
YELT YAR.1/    m- =             FYI          FY2         PIB         WY
KEYACrIVI=S               PYtq.4UM:        1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1  2 3 4
D. HANJE  WELDEKWr (C4M.)
3. Overseas Trailzrg
3.1 FP AdmIistratioi                                  x           x                 x
3.2 lparoscupic Sterilizatix                         x         x
3.3 FP EC                                             x           x        x        x
3.4 Health System MaKgei                              OOOKC             x=a
3.5 Coa=er Programr                                   DOOOaC
3.6 Radio Pr uctim                                    zoaowoc x
3.7 Gaphic Arto   xa c
3.8 Ptograpbic Art                                    oaoc xx
3.9 Audio-vial Maintenane                                           ' xxe
3.10 PIEanxial M_                 owogoc iaooaaoo ooo0c
3. 11 TB Oxtral & Mm3g                                xxnm  xxxe
3.12 Material M egm                                         x:.
4. loc1  TraiLig
4.1 Semnars FinaEiEal Mmwgemer                              -x          xx          xx
4.2 Coqiuter sAwwws Training                          oc
4.3 Halth  Inf. Back-up Trairnig                      xx                       c
4.4 Second level Trairnig of NCS                      xx xI              oc
4.5 Trairdng of VHW                                  a                     -oe
4.6 Training of Sch. Ttors in HJdu.                         xx
4.7 Training .f S staff in EIC                              xx          JO
4.8 Training of lab. Tedmidcans                       xx                       oC
4.9 Training of Nurses in IB Scr.                     xx
4.10 Seminar for Labor Officials etc.                 xx          xx          xx
4.11 Du Wpply & Distrtio bKXX
4.12 Retrairing in Drug Lstribution                                  xxa             xx
_I Project izplermeatica is projected to stat In Septer 1985. 11U, PY1 'uld run fron
Septem   1, 1985, thrugh Auut 1986, ad similarly for otber project yers.



7 9 -CHART III
Page 5 of 6
IED: WEALTH AND 1 TIXM  FmJM=
Ixplentation Schedule
EJU=  YJ^l/    PJE-JCr |                       Fyl  fPY2    | PY        PY4
KEY ACMAMS qIES                             1      2 3 4  1 2 3 4   1 2  3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
A. CIVWIL G
1. Mefiag                                   xx
2. Select io of Sites                       DOC
3. Selecticn of Arcitets/Coasultaets        oc
4. Prelfrdnagy Desigp, FBtimaes, Draft Doc XWoc
5. MA Reieow                                      x
6. Final Daign, Final Bid Docmts                 ,oc
7. MA Review, Advertis        for ILB              X
8  BLdding & Bid Evalutiica p R to                  D
9. MIA Fview                                          x
10. Gxistnali: NIM, Mseru                               XODODooao0     a
MkIN6, tlafeteng                      3o00ooaoa
Ruiral Clirdcs
TB & Filter Clinics                   DOODOOOOC
11. Plnallzatl of E4uip. & Furm. Usta             xoc
12.   , Review                                     x
13. IBLd Rxetms an Pag                             xx
14. IMA Review, Avertisemet for ICB                 xc
15. ILdding, BiLd Evaluation Report                     XD0C
16. M  ,eview                                              x
17. Ccxract Awards                                          x
18. Supply of Funiture and EWuip                                 xm     xac  ,
LProject Iilmsation is projected to  at  in Septeiber 1985. UIIs, PYI wadd nm from
from September 1, 1985, t lroz  Atgust 1986, and sinlarly for thber project years.



-80 -                      COART III
Page 6 of 6
LBS  R: HU. SD EtI    MATUW     P
FM=  Wm'/    PM-PM=              F          P12 P_3                 P14
I=ArJcrVnXMrM                             1 2 34  1 2 34  1 2 34  1 23 4  1 23 4
1. tppraisal
2. Negicw                                  x
3. Bord Presem                                 x
4. Efectiv_                                       x   x
5. Project Dzp1aia                                     IMooaa.  - -        --      Dco=_
6. Projet Ccple
7. Ca3f Date (3/91)
Project Igp7e t     Ism pis jeci   to Xa    iu Sqeer 1985. Dum, PFY wadd rm f=
Sqetazber 1, 1985, thLtxou  Auqxst 1986, and d=Uwly for other projea y.w



NAItliIHIA  Alit       .x                                                                            _*.A
MASERU L-4 _ _> ~MALTIr  
> 3h11zs l H ils*zn   ./*g g-e9<
/  O   llonuTEYATEYANE.t 
\~~~~~~7 '    ,3     
t                                w      >^9UTHlg -  1St          SH. JA
|-                                                            A,     , R  Ur \-                           .,
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l



IBRD 18638
P1'1*)                                 fl ID)                                30"oO
L E S0T H
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
:'W)~~~~~~'
:C.eA
s-                  K.t =, t- ,qv   ',, ,o K1OII
- 'N~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Ksg~6 A          o,N-at
HOSIIITAI'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V1I
.      S. lai                  -0   r                0          PLIRAI CMC
5"~    ~             ~ AIMOIcMOANTAOGN
,~~A                    /-                                      )    MKS-
X                                                    t                                                                     .t  -
-   -                                                       APP-   fA -  RM  A N
-U   N\ _                       I\ v   +   .   I   (   9 0  O  41   A   OA  I.11ICI NC. Al.   OC NN
_ 5   ! _>   t-   ,     +    *4          2         HOf l'll^i '.~~~~-r,*U* ij
C2 A. 5, 'S- ~ A; t.vS  t9[-'t 'C                 O          itCR>I CUNICS TO hl UPGRADAI0 UNDIR IROJIC
t)i'- ~                      dl'/  >OM   III A0i>lA CIIC'l   li- 501tVIC  Al; ASN HSARSIRIC;;It
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II AtT 'l-AOAC A'S NEKlS
q~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~C                                      HOSPII f,',~    Atlt S~O>NC,O    lWR
N    fr-~~~½-~r'AA  ~        I       II\ AI I NISTIAON
~~aLrtj     «4         0                           RA V
C  0{ RRAl CAINICS:ATl
~~   A  9'  I-i    A  r  N t    K  Z      0~~        RURALt    C1IN CSIA TAlON  HIt4%S UI&R DIJ  UDE POJC
I "               0~~~~~ TEL.'l'   CLINIS  TOI II^t  ATTAC H      O    -SA H SPTLNNDR PRJC
-      lAWt; 1: ROAPs  'I'JIlNG ANAl OR UNDE R CONSTI'UCIION
, 1AND( APlOV!
: SIPZ:  . .  c,
2  0kW'~  '0A'                                                 'IA- Iw
~~~~~~~~~~~~~tA", __  _ *    A{                 * _ A%Wj
fl -,5r-'  - - .rA." - -A--- V-r-s.         ROVNIA' . ?IOU4 NDAR!St
z                           25~~~~~ACL%AOJt X OU!CI)PIj
JANUARY iuar



