Document of             R      S           DV
The World Bank                                 II
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2470-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
VALESUL ALUMINIO S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
ALUMINUM PROJECT
February 22, 1979
This document has a resticted distributon ad may be and by recipients _ly in tie performnce of  |
their official duti. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbt World Blank autborition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978       January 25, 1979
Currency Unit -       Cruzeiro (Cr$)             Cr$
US$1           _      Cr$18.3                    21.79
Cr$1           -      US$0.055                   0.046
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALBRAS    -  Aluminio Brasileiro S.A.
ALUNORTE  -  Aluminio do Norte S.A.
BD-Rio    -  Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Rio de Janeiro
BNDE      -  Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
CACEX     -  Carteira do Couercio Exterior do Banco do Brasil S.A.
CIE       -  Companhia Internacional de Engenharia
CIP       -  Conselho Interdinisterial dos Precos
CVRD      -  Companhia Vale do Rio Doce  ,
FINANE    -  Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial
Reynolds - Reynolds International, Inc., a subsitdiary of Reynolds
Metals (U.S.)
Shell     -  Shell Brasil S.A.
TPY       -  Tons per Year (metric)
VALESUL   -  Valesul Aluminio S.A.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 - Cr$ 19.64)
correspond to the exchange rate as of November 24, 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
VALESUL ALUMINUM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Valesul Aluminio S.A. - VALESUL
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:             US$98.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace
at 7.0% per annum.
Guarantee Fee:      VALESUL would pay a 3% per annum guarantee fee to the
Government. If the cost of the loan to VALESUL, in US
dollar terms, would exceed 10% per annum, this guarantee
fee would be reduced correspondingly.
Project
Description:      VALESUL would substitute aluminum imports with domestic
production which would rely on Brazil's abundant hydro-
electric resources for power and ample reserves of bauxite
for raw material. Also, it would serve as a training
ground to prepare the skilled management and manpower
needed to develop the aluminum industry in the Amazon
region, which has enormous potential. Moreover, it
would introduce to Brazil an advanced aluminum reduction
technology. At full production, the project's output
would reach 86,500 tons per year and substitute imports
with an estimated yearly value of US$145 million. The
main project components would be: a carbon plant to
provide anodes, a rectifying substation to supply
direct current, a potline of electrolytic cells for the
reduction process, and a cast house to cast billets,
slabs and ingots. The project faces no major risks.
On the financial side, the Government, which controls
the price of primary aluminum, would take all pricing
actions which may be required to ensure VALESUL a
reasonable return on investment . On the technical
side, the presence of foreign partners, in particular
Reynolds International Inc., should ensure a successful
execution of the project and operation of the aluminum
smelter plant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Estimated Cost:
------US$ Millions -----     % of
Local   Foreign   Total   Base Cost
Land                             1.0        -       1.0      0.8
Equipment (including
freight and spares)           44.2     81.9    126.1      34.4
Civil Works, Erection and
Installation                  40.0     18.4     58.4      31.2
Engineering, Technology
and Project Management        22.6     12.9     35.5      19.6
Total Fixed Assets             107.8    113.2    221.0      86.0
Preoperating Expenses           18.0        -     18.0      14.0
Total Base Cost Estimate       125.8    113.2    239.0    100.0
Physical Contingencies          10.1     10.2     20.3       8.5
Price Escalation                19.9     17.9     37.8      15.8
Total Installed Cost           155.8    141.3    297.1    124.3
Working Capital                 19.6     20.7     40.3      16.9
Interest during Construction    9.1      23.6     32.7      13.7
Total Financing Required       184.5    185.6    370.1    154.9
Financing Plan:
US$ Millions
Equity
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce                      89.2
Shell Brasil S.A.                               51.8
Reynolds International Inc.                      6.0
Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado
de Rio de Janeiro                              1.0
Total Equity                                   148.0
Loans
Local Suppliers Credits                         34.1
Chase Manhattan Bank N.A. (agent)               90.0
IBRD                                            98.0
Total Long-term Debt                           222.1
Total Financing                                  370.1



- iii -
Estimated                                         - US$ Millions  --------
Disbursements:                        Bank FY80        FY81         FY82
Annual               34.4           47.5         16.1
Cumulative           34.4           81.9         98.0
Rate of Return:      The economic internal rate of return for the project has
been estimated at 20.4%, and the financial internal rate
of return at 10.8%.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2007-BR, dated February 20, 1979






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO VALESUL ALUMINIO S.A. -
FOR AN ALUMINUM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Valesul Aluminio S.A. - VALESUL with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$98 million to help finance an
aluminum project in the state of Rio de Janeiro. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including three years of grace with interest at 7.0% per annum.
VALESUL would pay a guarantee fee to the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        On October 15, 1978, Brazil's electoral college elected
General Joao Baptista Figueiredo as Brazil's new president for a six year
term, replacing President Ernesto Geisel. The new administration will assume
office on March 15, 1979.
3.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR),
dated October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on
October 21, 1977. An economic mission visited Brazil in April 1978. A new
economic report to be issued shortly is being prepared. The following para-
graphs as well as the country data sheets attached as Annex I to this report
reflect the findings and projections of that mission.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        During the late 1960s and early 1970s, Brazil achieved very rapid
economic growth together with much reduced inflation rates and a good balance-
of-payments performance. Net capital inflows fluctuated between 1 and 2.5% of
GDP. The petroleum crisis of late 1973 and the ensuing world recession cum
inflation produced a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments and infla-
tion accelerated. Brazil's response was more successful than that of most
LDCs, even though, with 80% of its petroleum imported, it was particularly
hard hit. The growth rates of the economy and of prices were:
General
__GDP                Price Index
1973               14.0                   15.1
1974                9.8                   28.7
1975                5.6                   27.7
1976                9.2                   41.3
1977                4.7                   42.7
1/   This section has been substantially reprinted from the President's Report
on the Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project (P-2442-BR), dated
January 10, 1979.



-2-
The maintenance of high rates of growth after 1973 required large amounts of
external financing. Gross capital inflows averaged $9 billion in 1974-77,
compared to $6 billion in 1973. Government policies were to keep imports
approximately constant through a combination of import restrictions anld import
substitution; to maintain investment levels; and to continue to stimulate
non-traditional exports.
5.        The major problem facing Brazil after the onset of the petroleum
crisis was the merchandise trade balance, which turned into a large deficit in
1974, as a result of a doubling in the value of imports. Since then, under
the influence of the policies described below, the trade balance gradually
improved, and turned again into a small surplus in 1977, helped in part by the
favorable trend of coffee and soy export prices in 1976 and in the first half
of 1977. In 1978, on the other hand, agricultural exports have been adversely
affected by falling commodity prices and have suffered the impact of a severe
drought in Brazil's most important agricultural states. As a result, primary
product exports are estimated to have fallen by more than $1 billion. This
shortfall has been largely offset by increased manufactured exports which are
rising very rapidly. Total exports, thus, are estimated to have remained at
about the same level as in 1977. The merchandise trade account has shown a
deficit of about US$1 billion because of increasing imports. Borrowing require-
ments will continue to be high because of rising debt service payments.
6.        During 1977, at the same time as the balance of payments was improv-
ing, the Government began to make some headway in the fight against inflation,
by placing more rigid limitations on credit expansion and more effective
restraints on public sector investment. By May 1978, the annual rate of
inflation, which had accelerated sharply in 1976, was reduced to 35%, as
compared to 47% a year earlier. The restrictions on public investment played
a major role in the program to control aggregate demand. The overall size of
the public investment program leveled off in real terms in 1977, after a
decade of strong growth which had, in recent years, come to place a signifi-
cant amount of strain on available resources. In 1977, in addition, ceilings
were placed on the lending programs of the National Economic Development Bank,
the National Housing Bank, and other official credit agencies. These measures
reinforced the impact of increasingly stringent policies in other areas,
including increases in bank reserve requirements and continued curbs on con-
sumer and real estate credit designed to dampen speculative demand and reverse
inflationary expectations. The anti-inflationary program induced a slowdown
in the rate of growth of GDP, from 9.2% in 1976 to 4.7% in 1977. The growth
of manufacturing industry dropped to 2.3%, reflecting a slackening of both
consumer demand and gross fixed investment.
7.        While information on economic trends during 1978 is still prelimi-
nary, it appears that a recovery of industrial activity has taken place, with
a growth rate of about 8%, as compared with about 4% in 1977. Agricultural
output, on the other hand, declined by about 2% because of widespread crop
failures caused by the drought. The overall rate of growth of the economy
is believed to have been around 6%. The Government has maintained its anti-
inflationary monetary and fiscal policies. Credit policy remained tight
and public sector investment plans did not call for a significant increase
in investment in real terms, except in the priority sectors of petroleum,



- 3 -
electric power and steel. The overall increase in public investment has
probably not exceeded 5%. However, a number of factors contributed to
continuing inflationary pressures in 1978. In the first place, inflation
was affected by the drought, as the decline in food production put pressure
on the cost of living. Moreover, on the wage front some industrial workers
in the state of Sao Paulo were able in May-June 1978 to negotiate increases
significantly above the annual inflation adjustment and the slight real
increase authorized by the official guidelines. Finally, as the Govern-
ment has continued to take advantage of favorable conditions in the inter-
national financial markets to borrow in excess of requirements and build
up exchange reserves, there has been a large inflow of external capital
into the economy. Although steps were taken to minimize the domestic impact
of this inflow by sterilizing the funds temporarily at the Central Bank, the
pace of inflation continued at approximately 41% a year.
Poverty Programs
8.        Brazil is a country with great income inequalities and extensive
poverty. While the debate on income distribution goes on, and the statistical
evidence remains inconclusive, in recent years the Brazilian Government has
made serious efforts towards the relief of poverty. During the Administration
of President Geisel social programs have increasingly been designed to meet
the needs of the lower income groups. Although the provision of basic social
services such as health, education and housing is still very inadequate, there
has been significant progress in many areas. The coverage of the social
security program has been expanded in the urban areas and extended to rural
populations in the early 1970s. The urban public health care system now
covers more than 70% of the urban population. In the rural sector, a system
of cash transfer to poorer old persons has been established. By 1978 virtually
all rural persons over 65 years of age received the equivalent of US$30 per
month per household--a very substantial income supplement equal to almost
twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast and a much
higher proportion for the poorer rural recipients. A similar program covers
the urban population over 70. Literacy of the population aged 10 and over has
increased from 48% in 1950 to 67% in 1970, and between 1970 and 1974 the adult
literacy program (MOBRAL) enrolled some 7 million persons. In the area of
urban housing, the National Housing Bank (BNH) has made over 1.7 million loans
over the period 1964-77. Beginning in 1975, a new sites and services program
(PROFILURB) was established to serve the urban poor and in 1977 this was
complemented by a program to finance the purchase of construction materials.
Increased priority has also been placed on improving urban water supply.  The
percentage of urban dwellings connected to general water supply networks rose
from 54% in 1970 to 61% in 1973, and it appears likely to reach at least 70%
by 1980.  Available evidence suggests that malnutrition remains one of the
most serious social problems in Brazil.  Beginning in 1973, the Government
established a National Nutrition Program (PRONAN) to attack the problem.
Long-Term Prospects
9.        During the past decade, the Brazilian economy grew at an average
rate of 10% a year. The Government has now recognized the need for moderating
growth because of the balance-of-payments constraint and to contain inflation.
In broad terms, a growth rate of 6 to 7% a year is probably needed to absorb



- 4 -
new entrants into the labor force and permit the continued transfer of man-
power from low to high productivity areas and sectors. GDP growth rates in
that range seem feasible through 1980, and growth might accelerate to 8 to 9%
a year in the 1980s. The assumptions underlying this projection include a
significant growth of export volume (at a rate of about 10% a year in 1980-85).
The terms of trade are expected to turn against Brazil sharply in 1978-80, but
should improve again slowly after 1982. Coffee prices are expected to level
off in the early 1980s, but to resume their rise subsequently. Soybean prices
should improve earlier. The growth of manufactured exports volume is projected
to range between 15 and 18% a year until 1983, and taper off gradually there-
after, to 10% in the late 1980s. Assuming a continuation of present import
substitution policies, a sizeable trade surplus would begin to emerge by 1980
and the current account deficit would narrow in the early 1980s to about $3
billion or 1% of GDP as compared to 4-5% in 1974-76. The rate of growth of
the external debt would slow down considerably in the 1980s. In the late
1980s, the growth of imports is expected to accelerate as import-substitution
projects are completed and the import ratio to GDP can be expected to increase
as a result. At the same time the exceptional momentum of export growth can
be expected to slow down as the absolute magnitude of Brazil's non-traditional
exports becomes large by world standards. As a result, the current account
deficit of the balance of payments is projected to increase somewhat in
nominal terms, although it would still remain below 1% of GDP.
10.       This outlook rests on a number of basic assumptions, including, in
particular, the expectation of a relatively favorable world economic situation
and the continued expansion of market opportunities for manufactured exports.
Although there are indications of increasing protectionism in industrial
countries, Brazilian commercial policy has so far proven extremely flexible.
Brazil can be expected to diversify its export products and markets and revise
its commercial strategy within a wide range of options to overcome emerging
obstacles in international trade. Even under a less favorable set of assump-
tions, however, Brazil can still be expected to sustain a long-term growth
rate of about 6.5% a year, a growth rate which would constitute a reasonably
good performance, and would in all likelihood be adequate to satisfy the
expected demand for employment opportunities.
11.       Brazil's current development strategy was defined in the second
National Development Plan (1975-79). It relies on rapid expansion of both
agriculture and industry. Agriculture grew by an impressive 5% per year over
the past decade, largely by expansion of land under cultivation. The culti-
vated area makes up less than 5% of Brazil's surface, and there is every
indication that rapid agricultural growth will continue to meet both export
and domestic demands, though the development of frontier lands will become
progressively more expensive. In the industrial sector, manufacturing has
been expanding at the average rate of 11% over the past 10 years. In the late
1960s and early 1970s the leading sectors were automobiles, consumer durables
and light equipment, with basic industry lagging behind. Since 1975, however,
Brazil's strategy has been to promote a more balanced pattern of industrial
growth and reduce dependence on imports by emphasizing heavy industry. One
element of this policy involves stepping up the development of Brazil's raw
material resources to supply industrial input needs. Large investment programs



are now being carried out, often with substantial public sector involvement,
in steel, petrochemicals, fertilizers, pulp and paper, non-ferrous metals and
cement. At the same time, Brazil is building up its capability in the
machinery and equipment sectors, moving into the production of heavy and
more sophisticated equipment, and equipment made to order. The recent decision
to build the turbines for the Itaipu dam (one of the largest in the world) in
Brazil reflects the growing capability of the sector. The National Economic
Development Bank (BNDE) is supporting these efforts through its large credit
program.
12.       Public sector investment plays a key role in Brazilian national
development plans. Defined broadly, public sector investment accounts for
more than half of total fixed investment in the Brazilian economy. Federal
investment has been heavily concentrated in infrastructure and basic industry.
These two areas together account for about 70% of total investment by federal
Government agencies and enterprises. Regional development and social programs
absorb most of the remaining 30%. Until 1975, the rapid expansion of public
investment reflected a heavy emphasis on road construction and regional devel-
opment. The Second National Development Plan added the massive program
of import substitution in basic industrial inputs, and an acceleration in
the pace of social programs. Since 1977, with the restraints placed on
public investment, road and rail transport expansion plans have been cut back
sharply. Investments in electric power, on the other hand, are maintained at
a high level. In basic industries such as steel, non-ferrous metals and
petroleum, investments are being stepped up considerably. The share of
regional development programs in total federal investment has now stabilized
at about 7%. The percentage allocated to social investment is increasing
gradually, reflecting continued expansion of federal investment in housing,
water supply and sewerage, and other urban development programs. State and
municipal governments also devote a substantial proportion of their resources
to health, education, welfare and other public services.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Although Brazil's resource gap may be expected to turn into a
surplus in the early 1980s - barring major unforeseen developments in the
world economy - and its balance-of-payments current account deficit is
expected to be reduced by half in 1980 as compared to the levels reached
in 1974-1976, external capital requirements will remain high in 1979-84
because of heavy debt service payments. The gross capital inflow needed
during 1979-84 is projected at US$10.7 billion annually, compared with a
US$8.3 billion average medium- and long-term capital inflow (including net
direct foreign investment) in 1974-77. Of this, gross disbursements of
suppliers' credits are expected to average US$1.6 billion a year, bond issues
are projected to continue at the current annual rate of US$1 billion and
the gross inflow of financial credits needed should average US$5.2 billion a
year over the 1979-84 period, or about the same as in 1974-77. This level of
borrowing would represent mostly the roll-over of existing credits. In
contrast to the period 1974-77, when financial credits supplied a net inflow
of US$3.8 billion a year, the net contribution from this source is expected to
drop to less than US$1 billion a year, on average, in 1979-84. The remainder
would be made up of direct private investments and bilateral and multilateral
credits.



-6-
14.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term external debt amounted to $19.3 billion. Financial
credits make up a little more than half of this amount. Total external debt
(both public and private) registered by the Central Bank at the end of 1977
was $32.0 billion. Of this total, $21.5 billion, or about two-thirds, was in
the form of financial credits. During 1977, the share of financial credits in
total debt outstanding declined slightly, as a result of an increase in net
disbursements by multilateral agencies and bilateral lenders, and a significant
rise in bond issues. The share of public and publicly guaranteed debt in
total external debt has continued to increase, largely reflecting the growing
needs of public sector entities for investment capital. Reflecting this
change in the composition of the total debt, the public debt service ratio is
expected to rise from about 20% in 1977 to 31% in 1978. The net debt service
ratio (debt service less interest earned on reserves) on the total external
debt, which reached 49% of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1977,
is also expected to increase to about 55% in 1978. This ratio will be high in
1978, because of the exceptional factors depressing Brazilian exports in that
year, but can be expected to improve steadily beginning in 1979 and fall
gradually to about 28% in 1985. The public debt service ratio can also be
expected to decline from its 1978 peak, as a result of the growth of exports
and the improvement of the debt profile.
15.       During 1974-77 Brazil has been able to finance a cumulative
current account deficit of nearly $25 billion, while increasing reserves by
more than $1 billion and improving the terms on which it obtains credit in the
world financial markets. With the balance-of-payments deficit on current
account expected to continue to improve in the early eighties, and with
further improvement in the terms of new borrowing, the rate of growth of debt
service payments should slow to an average of about 5% a year in 1980-85, as
compared to more than 25% a year during the period 1974-77. In sum, Brazil
may be expected to remain fully creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
16.       By December 31, 1978 the Bank had approved 82 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$3,887.1 million, of which 39 were not yet fully disbursed.
Two additional loans, totalling US$193 million, were approved in January,
1979. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching
US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77 and US$252 million in FY78.
Disbursements are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of December 31, 1978 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Over the FY75-78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in FY77
seven loans totalling US$425 million and FY78, nine loans totalling US$705.
So far in FY79, two loans totalling US$193 million have been approved: a
US$100 million loan for a water supply and sewerage project in the northeast
and a US$93 million loan for a sites and services and low-cost housing project.



- 7 -
Work is advanced on the preparation of an industrial pollution control project
in Sao Paulo; two power distribution projects in the southern states of Parana
and Rio Grande do Sul; two integrated rural development projects in the
northeastern states of Sergipe and Pernambuco; a rural primary education
project in the northeast; a medium-sized cities development project; and
a second secondary and feeder roads project. We expect to propose loans for
these projects in the near future.
18.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$19.3 billion, the Bank held about 8.0%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 7.0%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1977 was 4.8%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.9%. By 1980, the ratios of the Bank's share
in total outstanding debt and in total debt service are expected to rise to
6.2% and 3.3%, respectively.
19.       As of December 31, 1978, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$395.2
million, of which US$268.2 million had been cancelled, repaid or sold. Of
the balance of US$127.0 million, US$95.8 million represent loans and US$31.2
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of December 31, 1978 is
given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
20.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help
intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and income of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. The loans for nutrition research and develop-
ment, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension
and polder construction in the Lower Sao Francisco as well as for integrated
rural development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara,
Paraiba and Bahia were all designed to assist low-income groups in rural
areas. Additional projects designed to assist low-income groups in rural
areas are in preparation, including a rural education project and several
integrated rural development projects in the Northeast. The loans for water
supply and sewerage in the state of Minas Gerais, Greater Sao Paulo and the
northeast, for urban transport in five major cities, and for sites and services
and low-cost housing are assisting to improve the living conditions of the
urban population, particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach
low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation: a medium-sized cities
development project, a second urban transport project, an integrated urban
development project and a pollution control project for Greater Sao Paulo.
21.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help
maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically through



-8-
rational selection of investment projects. This intitution-building objective
has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the transportation
sector where there has been emphasis on the selection of investments, the
strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of railways' financial
performance and in the power sector as well. The proposed project would make
important contributions towards the development of the aluminum industry in
Brazil in the areas of transfer of technology and personnel training. VALESUL
is the first major aluminum undertaking by Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, and
would serve as a training ground to prepare the skilled management and
manpower needed to develop the aluminum industry in the Amazon region, which
has enormous potential.
22.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since it is
based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the need
for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemicals projects
is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic
production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending for agro-
industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this objective
and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways,
ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economic flow
of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil in view of the country's ample supply of high-grade iron
ore and the scale of its internal markets. VALESUL would substitute aluminum
imports with domestic production which would rely on Brazil's abundant hydro-
electric resources for power and on Brazil's ample reserves of bauxite for raw
material.
23.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue to need for some time in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued substantial lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on
more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and commercial financial
institutions. Since 1976, eight co-financing operations totalling more than
US$275 million have been concluded with private financial institutions and
several others are in preparation. VALESUL has negotiated a US$90 million
loan from a group of commercial banks with the Chase Manhattan Bank N.A. as
agent, to complete the financing plan for the proposed project. We propose to
provide the usual co-financing links for the commercial bank financing with
the proposed Bank loan (see para. 45). Finally, Bank support of VALESUL has



- 9 -
been a decisive factor in Shell Brasil S.A., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell
Ltd., and in Reynolds International Inc. deciding to purchase 35% and 4% of
the capital stock of the company, respectively.
PART III - THE ALUMINUM INDUSTRY SECTOR
The International Context
24.       The aluminum industry has traditionally developed in the industrial-
ized countries and in developing countries with ample sources of bauxite or
low cost hydroelectric power. Certain developing countries, such as Brazil,
are well endowed with these two major manufacturing inputs and offer, in
addition, substantial market potential for the economic development of a
local industry. In these countries, the development of the aluminum industry
has undoubtedly high economic priority. Apart from market considerations
and natural resources, the major factors constraining the development of the
aluminum industry in the less-developed countries (LDCs) have been the size
of the investment required and the need to acquire closely held production
technologies. Such a situation has led to a substantial involvement in the
development of the sector of the major integrated multinational companies.
These companies are well equipped to combine their technology with their
access to capital and their ability to coordinate the production and marketing
of bauxite mines, alumina refineries, aluminum smelters and fabricating
facilities with the varying needs of international markets. Over the last
few years, the upsurge in energy prices and the slowdown in the rates of growth
of the more developed economies have led the leaders of the industry to look
to the LDCs for investment opportunities and particularly to those with
bauxite resources, abundant power supply, and substantial market potential.
As a result, LDCs share of world primary aluminum production is projected to
increase from 8% in 1976 to 17% in 1985.
25.       The high investment cost in the aluminum industry coupled with a
sagging demand and a cost-price squeeze have held back industry expansion plans
over recent years. Taking into account a normal lead time of three to four
years for an aluminum project to come into production, current investment plans
indicate that installed capacity would increase until 1980 by only about 3% p.a.
and by a slightly higher rate of about 4.5% p.a. thereafter, compared to an
average demand growth rate estimated at about 6.8% p.a. In late 1978, the
capacity utilization rate was 88% worldwide, compared to a normal industry
objective of 95%. Demand is expected to exceed total world capacity by 1980,
thus exerting considerable upward pressure on prices. The projected supply-
demand situation indicates that aluminum prices are likely to rise in real
terms during the next few years. It is expected that the industry will only
reach an equilibrium situation in the early eighties after more attractive
prices have induced substantial additions to the present production capacity.
The international aluminum ingot price (the international price), which was
US$0.58 per pound FOB New York in December 1978, is projected to average
US$0.59 in 1979 and reach US$0.61 by 1981, in 1978 US dollars.



- 10 -
The Brazilian Aluminum Industry
26.       Industry has played a central role in the rapid growth of the
Brazilian economy in the recent past.  From 1967 to 1976, real industrial
output increased at an average annual rate of 12%. Its growth declined,
to 4% in 1977 largely as a result of balance of payments constraints. However,
industrial activity accelerated again in 1978, when it showed a growth rate
estimated at about 8%. The most dynamic element in Brazil's industrial
expansion has been the production of consumer durables and capital goods,
which grew at an annual rate of 18% between 1967 and 1976. Production of
intermediate goods (chemicals, fertilizers, paper, rubber, semi-finished
metals), which account for 42% of industrial output, has grown at 12% a
year on average since 1967. Production of intermediate goods such as primary
aluminum has, however, not kept pace with domestic demand and imports of
them reached US$2.54 billion in 1977, or 21% of total imports.
27.       Significant production of aluminum started in Brazil twenty-five
years ago. Presently, the Brazilian aluminum industry consists of three major
companies: Alcan Aluminio do Brasil (Alcan), Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio
(CBA) and Companhia Mineira de Aluminio (ALCOMINAS). Alcan and CBA are fully
integrated enterprises. They operate bauxite mines, produce alumina and
aluminum and fabricate aluminum products. ALCOMINAS, which was partly financed
by a US$22 million Bank loan made in January 1968 (Loan 526-BR), is not
involved in fabrication and is the sole local supplier of primary aluminum to
independent fabricators. In 1977, total local aluminum production reached
167 thousand tons.
28.       In spite of the rapid growth of output of about 16% p.a. during the
seventies, the local primary aluminum industry has not been able to keep pace
with the rising internal demand. Further growth is expected as the present
low per capita consumption (2.6 kg per person in 1977) comes more in line with
averages in other countries. The annual per capita consumption of aluminum in
industrialized countries, such as Japan and Germany, is about 10 times that
for Brazil. The past and projected demand-supply balance of aluminum in
Brazil is given below:
Brazil: Demand-Supply of Aluminum
(in thousands of tons)
Actual                     Projected
1966    1970    1976    1977    1980    1985        1990
Primary Production       32.9    56.2   139.2   167.1   273.0   534.0    768.0
Secondary Production      4.1      8.0    28.0    33.5    38.0    77.0        88.0
Domestic Production      37.0    64.2   167.2   200.6   311.0   611.0    856.0
Imports                  41.8    40.5    92.5   112.1    74.0   157.0    675.0
Total Supply           78.8   104.7   259.7   312.7   385.0   768.0  1,531.0
Inventory Changes
and Exports             9.4    (0.1)    0.8   (20.4)       -        -         -
Apparent Consumption    69.4   104.6   258.9   292.3   385.0   768.0  1,531.0



- 11 -
29.       With substantial reserves of bauxite, abundant hydropower and an
aluminum market with enormous growth prospects, Brazil is particularly well
placed for the development of an integrated, large-scale aluminum industry.
As part of its policy to improve the country's long-term balance of payment
prospects through large-scale import substitution in a number of key indus-
tries, the Government has developed plans to increase substantially the supply
of locally produced aluminum. In addition, over the longer run the development
of the aluminum industry is also expected to have a significant impact on the
development of the Amazon region which has large deposits of bauxite and
hydroelectric resources. The development of the sector is focused on:
(i) the expansion of all existing private alumina and aluminum facilities;
(ii) the construction of new alumina and aluminum plants; and (iii) the
development of new bauxite mines.
30.       Expansion plans of existing producers encompass the development of
increased capacity to mine bauxite and produce alumina and aluminum. Some
projects are already under execution, and others are expected to be started
soon. According to studies prepared by Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD),
between 1977-1980, investments under those plans would amount to approximately
US$270 million. They will be broken down as follows: Alcan, US$90 million;
ALCOMINAS, US$80 million; and CBA, US$100 million.
New Projects
31.       In addition to the expansion plans mentioned in paras. 29 and 30,
the Government intends to promote new projects in the sector to bring aluminum
supply more in line with the growing internal demand and with the country's
availability of ample natural resources over a reasonable period of time.
In the preparation of those plans the Government has had to make policy
decisions concerning two critical aspects: industry ownership and location
and schedule of planned investments. Historically, the Brazilian aluminum
sector has been privately owned and the Government policy is to maintain
the sector in private hands. However, in view of the size and the complexity
of the investments required, and because local industry had not kept pace with
demand, the Government authorized CVRD, a state controlled company, to promote
the VALESUL project under an ownership scheme designed to maintain the influence
of the government over the sector while ensuring that the project is under
both Brazilian and private control. At the same time, the proposed scheme
makes it possible for the participation of foreign firms able to provide
capital and technology. The Government also authorized CVRD to promote and
participate in bauxite mining, alumina refining and aluminum smelting projects
in the Amazon region.
32.       The location and the timing of the various proposed investments,
including VALESUL, has been a matter of discussion within the Government.
The most important bauxite prospects in Brazil are located in the Amazon
region. This region also has very large hydroelectric resources which only
recently have started to be exploited. The large Tucurui hydroelectric
project is already under construction in the region. Thus, it is generally
felt in Brazil that the development of new mining and production projects
should be concentrated in the Amazon region. The first bauxite mining
project in the Amazon Region is already under way. Mineracao do Rio Norte's
Trombetas mine has a planned initial production of 3.35 million tons per year



- 12 -
of bauxite with the first shipment scheduled for 1979. Total project cost is
estimated at US$350 million, of which US$15 million is being financed by IFC.
However, it is also felt that in the immediate future a project to produce
primary aluminum in the southeast region would be fully justified. VALESUL
would have a high economic return; be located close to aluminum consumers and
sources of labor, and be able to start substituting for imports at a much
earlier date than any of the alumina or aluminum projects planned for the
Amazon Region. Furthermore, since CVRD would be involved in both VALESUL and
the northern plants, VALESUL would also serve as a training ground to prepare
the skilled management and manpower that Brazil would need in the future for
the development of the northern projects. Finally, over the longer term,
market projections indicate that there is room for both Valesul and the
northern projects, as well as for the expansion of existing plants in accor-
dance with a realistic schedule of implementation. Projects in the north are
highly unlikely to start producing before the mid-1980's given the substantial
issues still to be resolved by the sponsors, the construction difficulties to
be faced in the Amazon, and the enormous financing requirements. Moreover,
economic projections made on the basis of information obtained from feasi-
bility studies show that the economic return of the Amazon projects under
present circumstances is likely to be low.
Pricing Policy
33.       The Government regulates the price of primary aluminum through the
Interministerial Price Commission (CIP). The price of final aluminum products
is not regulated. As mentioned in para. 27, only one (ALCOMINAS) of the three
main producers supplies primary aluminum to independent fabricators. The
other two producers are fully integrated. As a result, CIP regulations
affect only ALCOMINAS directly and it is generally felt that price regulations
have not adversely affected the development of the industry. Historically,
the Brazilian price of primary aluminum has been about 10% above the inter-
national price, which is quoted FOB New York. However, the Rio de Janeiro CIF
price of imported aluminum has been 5% higher than the Brazilian price, as it
includes transport cost. During 1977, the Brazilian price was reduced to
a level roughly equivalent to the international price. In 1978, the Brazilian
aluminum price was again increased in real terms to a level about 10% above
the international price FOB New York. As projects with higher cost structures
come into production, the demand supply imbalance persists and the international
price of aluminum increases it is expected that the Brazilian aluminum price
will continue to have a premium over the international price FOB New York (see
para. 51). The forecast price level about 5% above the projected international
price and 10% below the Rio de Janeiro CIF price of imported primary aluminum
would continue to allow aluminum producers attractive rates of return on their
invested capital (see para. 49).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on VALESUL Aluminum
Project," No. 2007-BR, dated February 20, 1979, is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. The project was submitted to the Bank in 1977,



- 13 -
and, after some preparation work, was appraised by a mission that visited Brazil
in November 1977. The project was prepared by VALESUL with the assistance of
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, Reynolds International Inc., and Billiton Inter-
national Metals Ltd. (a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell Ltd.). Negotiations
were held in Washington from January 29 to February 14, 1979. The Borrower,
VALESUL, was represented by its president, Mr. Alberto Mazoni; the Government
of Brazil by Mr. Luiz Americano; and the Shareholders by CVRD's vice-president,
Mr. Eduardo de Carvalho, Shell Brasil's treasurer, Mr. Luis Messer and Reynolds
International's counsel, Mr. Eugene Desvernine. A supplemental project data
sheet, including a timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions
is presented in Annex III.
Project Description
35.       The basic conditions set by VALESUL for the project were that the
most modern aluminum reduction technology was to be used to build a relatively
small plant to supply the domestic market, and to be located close to consumer
centers. This plant was to substitute for imports, and to serve as a training
center for larger aluminum projects to be developed at a later stage in the
Amazon region. Another condition for the project was that it should be profit-
able enough to attract foreign and local investors.
36.       After considering proposals from various international aluminum
producers, VALESUL decided to use the Reynolds pre-baked anode technology to
produce approximately 86,500 tons per year of primary aluminum in a product
mix envisaged as approximately 35% billets, 35% slabs, and 30% ingots.
Casting equipment will be sufficiently flexible to handle variations from this
mix. Production is expected to start in mid-1981, and full capacity to
be reached during 1982. The technology is basically the same as that used
by all the major international aluminum producers. Since 1974, Reynolds has
used its own version of this technology in a new plant in Germany, and in two
projects in Venezuela. The final feasibility study, prepared by VALESUL with
assistance from Reynolds, was completed in December 1977.
37.       The aluminum reduction process is based on the electrolysis of alumina
at approximately 9500C, in which oxygen is generated and must be reduced using
consumable carbon anodes. The main project components would be: a carbon
plant to provide anodes, a rectifying substation to supply direct current,
a potline of electrolytic cells where the reduction process takes place,
and a cast house in which liquid aluminum from the potline is cast into the
selected aluminum products. The project would also include service and
support facilities including storage and materials handling components, fume
control units and maintenance equipment.
Supply of Raw Material
38.       Alumina would be the most important raw material for the plant.
Valesul would eventually obtain alumina from CVRD's ALUNORTE project in the
Amazon region. But, since it is unlikely that alumina could be produced at
ALUNORTE before 1985, Valesul would need about four years of an interim source



- 14 -
of alumina supply. Contracts for the supply of alumina from refineries in
Guyana and Surinam have been finalized. After the expiration of these contracts,
the shareholders would ensure that VALESUL purchases its supply of alumina
at competitive prices and on an arm's-length commercial basis (Section 3.05 of
the draft Shareholders Agreement). A modification of these contracts without
the prior approval of the Bank would be an event of supervision and default
(Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Location and Infrastructure Facilities
39.       VALESUL carried out extensive studies covering the coastal strip
from the state of Bahia to Sao Paulo to determine the most appropriate location
for the plant. These studies determined that the state of Rio de Janeiro was
the most adequate area, mainly because of its power supply and port facilities
as well as for the availability of skilled and semi-skilled manpower. Another
important factor was the closeness to the large aluminum consumption centers
of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. The site is approximately 60 km southwest of
Rio, and 17 km northeast of the new Port of Sepetiba and is located near main
highways, a railroad line, major transmission lines, and a power station.
The site was owned by the Rio de Janeiro State Development Bank which has
exchanged it for preferred VALESUL shares.
40.       Unloading facilities would be located in the new port of Sepetiba.
The port of Sepetiba would involve a relatively short, inexpensive haulage to
the plant. For purposes of the project, the port of Sepetiba has clear
advantages over the port of Rio de Janeiro which is heavily congested and
would require the transport of alumina to the plant by truck through densely
populated areas. The alumina unloading facilities at the Port of Sepetiba
would constitute only a small part of the large coal unloading facilities
currently under construction. PORTOBRAS, the port sector holding company, has
informed the Bank in a supplemental letter that it will ensure VALESUL adequate
port facilities for the full utilization of the facilities included in the
Project.
41.       VALESUL would receive alternating current from two new 138 kV lines
that would connect the plant with an existing substation owned by LIGHT, the
Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo power company. VALESUL's power demand of 160
MW would account for less than 1% of the capacity of the power grid to which
the plant would be connected. Continuous supply of power would be of vital
importance for the success of the project. A power outage lasting longer than
one hour would result in the freezing of the molten aluminum in the potlines
and have disastrous consequences in the operation of the plant. Discussions
between VALESUL, power sector authorities and the Bank have resulted in
satisfactory power supply arrangements. An analysis of these arrangements has
indicated that provided appropriate protective measures are taken, the chances
of a significant power outage are negligible. VALESUL would pay LIGHT about
15.4 mills per Kwh, the standard rate for bulk industrial power consumers.
This rate, which would be adjusted from time to time, is not expected to
adversely affect the power company's financial position. The utility rate
legislation provides to power companies a return of 10% to 12% on remunerable
investment. ELETROBRAS, the power sector holding company, has informed the
Bank in a supplemental letter that it will take all actions required to ensure



- 15 -
VALESUL an uninterrupted supply of power. VALESUL has entered into a Power
Supply Agreement with LIGHT. A modification of this agreement without the
prior approval of the Bank would be an event of suspension and default
(Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution and Operation
42.       VALESUL would carry out the project on the basis of Reynolds
engineering. It has contracted the services of Companhia Internacional de
Engenharia (CIE), a Brazilian engineering company, to prepare detailed engi-
neering, supervise construction and carry out procurement. CIE has extensive
experience in engineering and construction of industrial projects in Brazil
but has no experience in construction of aluminum plants. To strengthen
its capabilities, CIE has arranged for the participation of Kaiser Engineering
(US) in the areas of cost control, project scheduling and foreign procurement.
Execution of infrastructure support for the project would be the responsi-
bility of other entities such as LIGHT and FURNAS, for power supply, Docas do
Rio de Janeiro and PORTOBRAS for port facilities, the Municipality of Rio de
Janeiro for road construction and the state water company of Rio de Janeiro
for water supply. Reynolds and CIE are already working on the preparation of
detailed engineering designs, planning of construction works and procurement
schedule and procedures. VALESUL is expected to receive the first bids for
time-critical components procured under international competitive bidding by
March 1979. Field construction has begun. Site preparation is completed and
building of foundations is under way. The first pots should start production
of primary aluminum by July, 1981. The start-up should be completed by
December, 1981 and full production achieved in early 1982. The initial long
lead-time contracts would be awarded in July 1979. Reynolds, on the basis of
its recent experience in Venezuela, feels that the proposed schedule, though
tight, is realistic.
43.       VALESUL has recruited its initial staff mainly from CVRD and the
three Brazilian aluminum companies. Training plans for technical staff have
been prepared and contracted with Reynolds. Training material prepared by
Reynolds for its German and Venezuelan plants would be used. In total, about
720 employees would be trained, of which about 660 (totalling 3,700 man-months)
in Brazil, and 60 (totalling 300 man-months) abroad in the U.S., Germany and
Venezuela. The cost of this program would be approximately US$3.2 million.
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The total cost of the project, including working capital and interest
during construction is estimated at US$370.1 million equivalent with an esti-
mated foreign exchange component of US$185.6 million equivalent. The estimated
foreign exchange component is based on the assumption that 54% of the equipment
would be procured under international competitive bidding and that Brazilian
suppliers would win 40% in value of these bids. The project would qualify for
exemption from import duties on equipment. Price contingencies in US dollar
terms have been added as follows: for equipment and materials: 7.5% in 1979,
and 7.0% p.a. in 1980 and thereafter; for civil works: 12% p.a. for all
years. Working capital requirements are estimated at US$40.3 million and
interest during construction at US$32.7 million equivalent. The estimated
project cost includes a 10% provision for physical contingencies, which is
considered adequate.



- 16 -
45.       The total cost of the project (US$370 million) would be financed
by long-term loans totalling US$222 million (60%) and equity contributions;
totalling US$148 million (40%). The long-term loans include: (a) the proposed
Bank loan of US$98 million, which would finance about 26% of total project
cost, or about 53% of its foreign exchange component; (b) a loan from a group
of commercial banks with the Chase Manhattan Bank N.A. as agent (Chase) of
US$90 million, which would finance another 24% of total project cost; and a
loan from Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Rio de Janeiro acting as agent
for FINAME, the Brazilian suppliers credit agency, of US$34 million which
would finance the remaining 9% of the project cost to be financed by debt.
We would link the Bank loan with the Chase loan through the usual cofinancing
arrangements (Sections 6.01(d) and 6.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
effectiveness of the Chase loan would be a condition for effectiveness of the
Bank loan (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). CVRD, Shell and
Reynolds would provide VALESUL with all additional funds that may be required
to complete the project. If the cost of the project exceeded US$370 million,
additional expenditures up to a maximum of US$33 million would be financed by
further long-term debt having at least 10 years of maturity including 5 years
of grace (60%), and equity contributions by the shareholders (40%). Chase has
informed VALESUL that it is prepared to provide additional debt financing for
the project up to a maximum amount of US$20 million. Expenditures in excess
of US$33 million would be financed by equity contributions and if (a) the debt
service ratio projected for VALESUL is at least 1.5:1 and (b) the debt to
equity ratio does not exceed 60:40, by additional long-term debt (Sections
2.02, 2,04 and 2.05 of the draft Shareholders Agreement and 5.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
46.       Unexpected cost overruns, which are felt quite unlikely but never-
theless possible, may require a change in the scope of the project. To these
effects, the shareholders or the Bank would be able to request, at any time, a
full review of the estimated cost of the project. If the revised cost estimate
exceeded US$403 million equivalent, the shareholders would prepare and carry
out a plan of action to complete the project. If the shareholders failed to
agree on a plan or the proposed plan was not satisfactory to the Bank, the
shareholders would complete the project as presently envisaged (Sections 2.03
and 2.04 of the draft Shareholders Agreement).
47.       The Bank loan would finance the cost of the goods to be procured
under international competitive bidding and international shopping (para. 52)
and the direct foreign cost of the consultancy services required for management
of project execution. In addition it would finance about 50% of the interest
during construction due by VALESUL to the Bank.  The partial financing of
interest during construction would improve the tight cash flow position that
VALESUL is expected to have during its first years of operation. VALESUL
would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan and pay, in addition to
the interest rate, a 3% per annum guarantee fee to the Government. If the
cost of the Bank loan to VALESUL, in US dollar terms, would exceed 10% per
annum, this guarantee fee would be correspondingly reduced.
Project Ownership
48.       As mentioned in para. 31, the policy of the government is to keep
the control of the aluminum industry in private hands. Up to now, control



- 17 -
of VALESUL was substantially in the hands of CVRD. However, CVRD has substan-
tially completed negotiations with Shell Brasil, S.A., a subsidiary of Royal
Dutch Shell (U.K./Netherlands) on a 35% equity participation. In addition,
Reynolds International Inc., a subsidiary of Reynolds Metals Inc. (US) has
agreed to convert into equity its technology fee amounting to US$6 million
equivalent (which would correspond to a 4% equity participation). Thus,
foreign interests would subscribe as much as 39% of VALESUL's shares. The
agreement between CVRD, Shell and Reynolds regarding their participation in
VALESUL has been finalized.  A change in that agreement without the prior
approval of the Bank would be an event of suspension and default (Section
6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Neither CVRD nor Shell nor Reynolds
would sell their shareholdings in VALESUL except as described in para. 49
below (Section 3.03 of the draft Shareholders Agreement).
49.       CVRD and VALESUL have studied various alternatives for attracting
Brazilian investors over the past year, including some form of underwriting of
VALESUL's shares by Brazilian banks, the issuance of subordinated convertible
debentures, and the selling of participations to prospective VALESUL's customers
who might wish to secure a local source of primary aluminum. There have been,
however, various practical problems in finding private Brazilian investors
willing to commit themselves at this stage to participate in a new joint
venture with the Government and foreign partners and who have the necessary
capital available. It is generally felt that it would be easier to attract
local investors once the project is in full production. CVRD would offer
for sale a percentage of VALESUL's voting shares to private Brazilian investors
so that both private and Brazilian shareholders would hold more than 50% of
VALESUL's voting shares. At present, CVRD is actively discussing with two
Brazilian aluminum fabricators the sale of a substantial equity participation
in VALESUL. However, if by the time of start-up, CVRD had not been able to
sell the required percentage of voting shares, it would offer for sale, over a
three year period, one-third of the difference between the number of shares it
may hold and 49% of VALESUL's voting shares to private Brazilian investors.
If, in any year, CVRD was not able to sell the shares offered, it would seek
the advice of an expert third party in consultation with the Bank to determine
the most convenient timing, terms and conditions for the sale of the shares in
question (Section 3.06 of the draft Shareholders Agreement). In any case,
CVRD would keep, as a minimum, a 40% participation in the stock of VALESUL.
This would ensure VALESUL access to the management expertise and financial
resources of CVRD needed to bring the project to a successful completion and
operation (Section 3.06 of the draft Shareholders Agreement). Shell would
also maintain a substantial participation in the stock of VALESUL for the same
reasons.
Financial Projections
50.       Based on the assumption that Brazilian aluminum price levels will
be kept approximately in line with international prices (see para. 32),
financial forecasts indicate that VALESUL would be a financially viable under-
taking. The internal financial rate of return of the project is estimated
at 10.8%. In its initial years of operation, VALESUL's profitability would be
low, at least during the period when VALESUL would have to import alumina from
abroad and face large financial expenses. However, VALESUL's profitability is
expected to improve substantially in subsequent years. Although the financial



- 18 -
rate of return of the project is arguably on the lower side, the project has
proven attractive to private foreign investors (para. 48), who are taking
other factors into consideration, including the opportunity to secure sales of
alumina, the major raw material; the longer term implications of entry into a
growing and potentially very large aluminum market; the possibility Cf improved
profitability through future expansions and/or integration into further
processing of the primary aluminum; and the possibility that the domestic
aluminum price could be higher than that projected in the Bank's estimates.
51.       The financial projections for VALESUL indicate that the company's
revenues would not cover its operating expenses (including depreciation) and
interest payments until 1984, the second year of full production. In 1983,
VALESUL would be able to finance its cash requirements out of its own resources
with a capacity utilization above 71% (83% for 1985). Thereafter VALESUL's
financial situation would progressively improve. To ensure financial sound-
ness, VALESUL would maintain a long-term debt to equity ratio not exceeding
70:30 at the end of each fiscal year until the completion of the project and
60:40 thereafter; maintain a current ratio of at least 1.1:1; and limit its
dividend distribution or any other cash distribution, or its financial commit-
ments or prepayment of any debt if such action would cause its current ratio
to fall below 1.3:1. To complete the project, VALESUL would incur long-term
debt as described in para. 45 above. After the completion of the project,
VALESUL would not contract any debt if, on the basis of reasonable financial
projections, the projected debt service coverage in any year would be less
than 1.5 times and the debt equity ratio higher than 60:40 including the debt
to be contracted (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). VALESUL would
have its annual accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and submit these to the Bank within three months after the end of the
fiscal year (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Pricing and Marketing
52.       As mentioned in para. 33, the Government controls the prices of
primary aluminum products such as billets, slabs and ingots. Historically,
the Brazilian ingot price has been about 10% above the international posted
price, which is quoted FOB New York, except during 1977, when the Brazilian
price was kept in line with the international price. There is no indication
that the pricing policy followed in the past would change substantially in the
foreseeable future. Since an increasing part of the aluminum demand in Brazil
and abroad will be supplied from new plants or expansion projects which would
have a higher capital cost than existing plants, and since demand for aluminum
is expected to exceed world supply in the early eighties, the expected con-
tinuation of the present price policy would tend to increase aluminum prices
in real terms. The Brazilian ingot price is projected to increase in constant
terms from about US$0.59 per pound in 1978 to US$0.64 per pound by 1981. This
would approximately correspond to the projected increase in the international
price. The Government would take all action required with regard to the
prices of VALESUL's products to enable VALESUL, operating efficiently, to earn
a reasonable return on its invested capital (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).



- 19 -
53.       VALESUL would market its production.  However, the main shareholders
would have rights to offtake metal on an arm's-length commercial basis.
Having its own marketing system would assure the company greater managerial
and financial independence, and consequently make it more attractive to
prospective private investors. The marketing organizational structure would
be relatively simple. However, the formulation of marketing strategies would
require careful consideration given the propensity of the industry to tie its
markets through forward integration, and the risks that this represents for a
non-integrated newcomer. VALESUL would prepare a marketing plan on the basis
of a detailed market study and submit it to the Bank for its review by December
31, 1979 (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). CVRD, Shell and Reynolds
would assist VALESUL with this undertaking (Section 3.04 of the draft Share-
holders Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       In accordance with a Government policy aimed at supporting the
development of the Brazilian capital goods industry, about 43% (US$69 million)
of the value of equipment and materials required by the project (US$159 million)
would be procured only from Brazilian suppliers. The cost of equipment reserved
for local procurement is expected to increase the total cost of the project by
less than 5%. Such equipment would be paid for from resources other than the
Bank loan. Procurement of equipment to be financed by the Bank with an
estimated value of US$90 million, would be through international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines, except for US$4 million in
items each not exceeding US$250,000 in value which would be procured through
international shopping. Brazilian suppliers would be allowed a preference
margin of 15% (or the import duty rate if lower). On this basis it is esti-
mated that about 40% of the FOB value of the equipment to be financed by the
Bank might be won by Brazilian suppliers. The equipment lists have been
developed taking careful account of items which are critical for the technical
operation of the plant or have critical delivery times. Items reserved for
local procurement are less technically specialized and less critical on
delivery. Civil works and erection for the plant (other than the turn key
green mill) would be locally contracted.
55.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed (i) US$90 million against
100% of CIF expenditures for imported equipment, or the ex-factory cost of
locally supplied equipment procured through ICB, or 100% of the foreign
expenditures for items to be purchased through international shopping;
(ii) US$3 million against 100% of the foreign exchange cost of consultancy
services for management of project execution; and (iii) US$5.0 million against
interest during construction on the Bank loan. Up to US$1 million would be
disbursed on account of payments made for foreign consultancy services after
April 1, 1978. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the Closing
Date, July 31, 1982.
Project Benefits
56.       With huge bauxite reserves and enormous hydroelectric potential,
Brazil is particularly well endowed for the development of a large aluminum
industry. Nevertheless, Brazil's three primary aluminum producers have not
been able to satisfy the country's increasing demand for the product. Between



- 20 -
30% to 40% of the aluminum supply was imported in the past. This high import
level, coupled with a fast expanding market, has exerted increasing pressure
on the balance of trade of the country. The prospect of continued high
aluminum imports in an environment of a considerable balance-of-payments
constraint and the desire to increase the Brazilian participation in the
industrial development of the country have led the Government to take an
active role in the development of the industry. The VALESUL project has been
planned in response to these concerns. At full production, the project's
output would reach 86,500 tons per year, and substitute for imports with an
estimated value of US$145 million. The direct foreign exchange savings of the
project, net of imported raw materials, is estimated at about US$120 million
per year in constant terms before principal and interest payments on foreign
loans. Net of foreign debt service, the project would generate foreign
exchange savings of approximately US$75 million in the years with heaviest
debt service. VALESUL will thus have a continuing and increasingly favorable
impact on Brazil's balance of payments.
57.       The economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 20.4%.
A shadow exchange rate, 30% higher than the official rate, was used to reflect
foreign trade distortions caused by import tariffs, export taxes and subsidies,
as well as other forms of import restrictions and export incentives. Sensitivity
tests show that the economic rate of return would not be substantially affected
by changes in the price of power which would be the most important local input.
If the economic cost of power would be increased from the 23 mills used in the
base estimate to 30 mills, the economic rate of return would drop to 17.5%.
58.       The direct employment effects of the project are only 845 permanent
jobs. Employment directly generated during construction is estimated at about
5,000 man-years. Additional jobs would be provided in the engineering and
capital goods industries. Training benefits would accrue from the executive
level on down. Training benefits are particularly important in view of the
planned Amazon projects. In addition, the project would provide primary
aluminum consumers with an alternative source of supply, now restricted to
ALCOMINAS and expensive imports. Moreover, the project would introduce in
Brazil the aluminum reduction technology of Reynolds, the third largest
international aluminum company (after Alcoa and Alcan). Majority ownership
would be Brazilian (and eventually private and Brazilian), thus improving the
basis for Brazilian leadership in the development of the huge aluminum poten-
tial in the north of the country.
Project Risks
59.       Prices of all of VALESUL's products - ingots, slabs, and billets -
are subject to Government policies and regulations, and thus outside VALESUL's
control. Since VALESUL's financial performance would depend on these prices,
the Government would take all action required with regard to the prices of
VALESUL's products to enable the company to earn a reasonable return on its
invested capital. Though CVRD has extensive iron ore experience, the project
would be its first aluminum reduction plant. However, the project is not
expected to face any major management-related operational risks since VALESUL's
technical and administrative staff has considerable operating experience in
the aluminum industry. Moreover, the involvement of both Reynolds and Shell
in the project and the execution of a suitable training program should ensure
a successful plant operation.



- 21 -
Ecology
60.       Although detailed pollution control regulations for aluminum smelters
do not yet exist in Brazil, VALESUL has recognized the need to exercise strict
control over all aspects of environmental pollution to avoid potential adverse
effects that could stem from the proximity of the plant to highly populated
areas. To this effect, VALESUL intends to apply in the project standards
similar to those used by Reynolds for its plant in Hamburg, Germany which we
consider adequate from an environmental point of view. VALESUL would execute
and operate the project with due regard to all environmental factors (Section
3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Valesul Aluminio S.A.,
the draft Shareholders' Agreement between the Bank, Companhia Vale do Rio
Doce, Shell Brasil S.A., and Reynolds International Inc., and the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank;
and the draft Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.       The effectiveness of the Chase loan would be a special condition
for effectiveness of the Bank loan.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
February 22, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                      REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           8512.0                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    2066.0                                 MIST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROU'P Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  320.0        580.0    1390.0           1066.7      1796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      332.0       474.0      670.0            911.1      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         69.8        92.8      113.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 44.5          55.7      61.4             57.9        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         8.0         11.0      13.3             25.6        27.6        55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      44.0         49.0      55.0             77.6       116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.0         42.0      41.7             42.0        34.8        40.0
15-64 YRS.                          54.0         55.0      55.1             52.2       56.0         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0          3.0       3.2              3.7         5.7         3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0          3.0       2.8              2.7         1.6         2.9
URBAN                               5.5          5.0       4.4              4.3         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      40.8         38.4      37.1             35.8        27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      11.7          9.9       8.8              9.1         9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6          2.6       2.5              2.6         1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        111.0     203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.6         ..            15.1        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              87.8        100.0     112.3            102.1       103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0        104.0     105.0            103.9       110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           61.0         64.0      62.1             60.3        77.7        89.9
OF WNICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        38.0         39.0      33.6             26.7        22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..          ..         ..             8.7         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0          59.4      61.4             62.6        63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           180.0        110.0         ..            56.9        38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         56.3      71.7             60.7       67.7         83.0
URBAN                                ..         77.7      83.2             78.0       83.5        100.0
RURAL                                *-         29.0      52.9             34.9       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         59.9      65.5             61.1       70.3         57.8
URBAN                                ..         86.1      86.3             80.3       90.7         99.3
RURAL                                *-         26.5      39.0             25.4       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2170.0       1910.0    1650.0 /f        1899.3     1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       3220.0    2920.0 If        1220.1      849.2        676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             275.0       260.0      260.0            422.3      275.4        325.8
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            258.2      129.9        250.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..           2281.6      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         18.0        ..             25.6       18.9         18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.1          4.8        ..              5.2        3.9
URBAN                                ..          4.6        ..
RURAL                                ..          5.2        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.1       1.1 /f           2.0        0.9
URBAN                                ..          1.0       1.2 If           2.1        0.8
RURAL                                ..          1.2       1.2 /f           2.7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              38.7        47.6       55.1             51.2       59.2
URBAN                                ..         75.6      77.9             77.3       78.0
RURAL                                ..          8.4      12.5             12.8       12.5



-23-                                          ANNEX I
URAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEE                  page  2
BRAZIL                    REFERENCZ CROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESSIMATE)
SAME       SAW.    NEXT NICHER-
HDUT RECENT     CEOCRAPNIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 k      1970 /b ESTIMATE b       REGION  c  GROUP Ld    GROUP L
EUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
FRIMARTY    TOTAL                95.0    -  63.0    - 90.0      -      103.5       97.6       104.1
FEKALE              93.0         83.0      90.0           102.9       87.4       120.3
UODATY:  TOTAL                   11.0        27.0      26.0            37.2       47.8        44.7
FREALE               10.0        27.0      20.0            37.9       42.6        46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SZCONDARY) 19.0        17.0      47.0 lA         14.7       22.7        18.7
MPIWL-TEACER RATIO
nPIART                            33.0        28.0      22.0          * 32.8       25.4        30.6
ROIIDART                         13.0         13.0      11.0            17.8       24.9        16.3
ADlULT LITERACiY RATE (PERCENT)     61.0        66.0       ..             74.9-      96.3
PASSENGER CARS PER TBOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        25.0      35.0            26.9       32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       66.0         60.0      60.0           173.5      201.9       195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        18.0        66.0     83.0             69.4       97.7       108.4
-EPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
DITRESt") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                54.0         37.0      39.0            72.8       70.9       108.0
ClINMt ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0         1.9       ..              4.3        4.4
IFiLOIMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   22700.0    29400.0  34100.0
taIALE (PERCENT)                  17.5        20.4      21.6       -0  21.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             52.0        40.4      37.8            37.8       38.4        25.7
1UDUSTRY (PERCENT)               14.8         18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              32.0         31.6      31.5            30.8       33.7        40.1
NALR                                52.7        50.3      49.5            47.2       50.8        55.8
PEKiLE                              11.2        12.8      13.6            13.2       12.6        24.7
OsfIaC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.5      1.4              1.7        1.4         1.6
InOOM DISTRIBUTION
PZRCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RCEIVED RY
IZOKEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS   27.7 /h    34.9 1      ..             26.9       20.2
KECIEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS 54.4 1h     62.2 j      ..            57.7       47.9
1SST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5  h       3.21l      ..             3.2        3.2
lwEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   11.6 lh      10.0  h     ..            10.7       13.7
OVKRY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE PviElRT INCMM
LZVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
Ulm         ..       ..251.9
Rum                                                   IS;150.0        200.6      157.9
2 tIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INME
LEVL (US$ PER CAPITA)
500                                ..                 465.0           403.1      448.8
UIRAL                               *.         ..    332.0            258.0      313.1
ESTIATED POPULATION BELOV POVE rY
NXOUz LEVEL (PERCENT)
1UAm                               *-          ..      34.0            34.8       23.2
RURAL                               .-         ..      55.0            65.2       54.5
**o le allabhl
a oloteplicable.
Th e adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-eighted geo_tric means. excludtng the extrea
wlues of the indicator and the wat populated country tn  ach gr6up. Covtage of countrtes omog the
ircators depend* an aretlebllity of data and is not uniform.
^    Unless othervise noted. date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1If1f for 1970. betveen 1969
a" 1911; and for Noet Recent Estimate  between 1973 and 1977. ;
Ratino Ames & Caribben;  /d  Upper Middle Income (41136-2500 per capita. 1976); / Rligb Incom
(Over $Z0 peC capiL. 0976); if  ii2;  U   egiontning i913. duration of general education reduced
from 7 to 4 years. therefore det- my not be comparable to those of earlier years; /h Data refer
to eceomecally active population.
Sapteber, ISJ6



-24-                                                                    AMIE  I
DRUXITIOMS Of SOCXAL IUDICATOIS                                                    page I
bUIg  The aLdjusted group averages for each Lindictor are POPUldtinm-w.ighte  geemetric mate. excluding the extrame value. of the indicator and the most
populated cOuntry in each grOUP.  Coverage Of c0untf le   MMnin  the indiaatore dependsan0 evailability of date and In not oulfom.  Due to lack of d.te,
group sveages for Capital Surplus Oil geportere and Indicators of aecesei to water man ecrets dispoesal. housing, income distribution and povarty aet
,imple population-weighted geometric meena without the excluaion of emtrem velvee.
ULAX  ARIA (thoueend eq. km)                                                           Pqftlaionjar ho   ia   W- total, urban. and rural - Populati.-~ (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area oW iuland waters.                       ubn   n  rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
fiiutrl- Moat recent cetimate of agrioulturel ar6a "aed temperarily              available in public and private general end specialized hospital and re-
or permasently for crops, pastures. mArket end kitchen gardemw or to                  habilitation centers.  Roepitale are estebliebmants pereainently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                           at least one, physician.  Establishments providing principelly custodial
Care are not included. Rural hospitals, however. inkcluds health and medi-
GNP FnlCAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita estimatee at current market pricee.                 cia  center. not permanently staf fed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sees conversioo sethod as World Sank Atlae (1975-77 beaie)l             sistant, nkurse, midwife. etc.) which offer in-patient accoiomdetion and
1960, 1970, and 1977 date.                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
h~eipe  netoDita Ibad - Total number of admissiona to or diechargee
KUIDOY COSUt4PIO  PU  CAPITA - Annual coneevption of comorcial energy                  Mfrom he tpicaed*ivi1de,d'by the mumber of beds.
(coal and lignte, petroleum, natural gee And hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.
Averame also of househl   proeprhuehold) - total, urban. and rural -
POUAINADVIA   UITC                                                                       A houseehld consiss of  gPrroup o.f ,,individuals who share living quarters
Tota  moua            d-orLill oo.-Aseof July 1; If not available,                      end their main mssl..  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included In
avrg   ftoan-"    sits  1960, 1970, and 1977 deta.                                    the houeehold for statistical purposee.  Statistical definitione of house-
Urbanpplto   aecn   fttl  - Ratio of urban to total pepola-                             hold vary.
tion  di  scet dfiniion   of  rba  aras may affect co"enskility          Averae number of pereons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data OMen  countries.                                                              her of persona per room io all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
PoDulation dmoitv                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~dwellings. respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structur.s  and
Far   sq, l,- X d-year population per square kilomater (100 hectaree)                  unoccupied parts.
o   total area.                                                                   Accege to electricity (prerent of dvellings) - total. urban, eNd rural -
Per en. km. agriculture land - Comptetd as above for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellinge with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rurel dvallings respectively.
Population ee tructure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), workina-age
(15-64 yeas)  end retired (65 yrear  and over) aSo percentagne of sid-              CT
year population,                                                                 M 21    atlmtratios
Puetien ar whrate (percent) - total. a"d urban - Compound amunul                  rr3r   col-total. a nd female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth    e  oftotal and urban mid-year populations for 1950-6Q,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
19d0-70, end 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual ILiv  birthe per thousand of                   different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year Population; ten-year aritbetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment many exceed 100 percent since sums pupils are below  or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                   above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of aid-                  Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educe-
year population; ten-year arithestic averages ending in 1960 end 1970                 tion requires at least four yerar  of approved primary Instruction; pro-
mad fiv-year average endinLg in 1975 for meet recent aetimate.                        vidas general vocational, or teacher training lostr-uctious for pupils
Gross rerdcinrt. - Average number of daughters a vwomn will bear                        usually of 12 to 17 yaare of age; correepondences coureso  are generally
i r ernrMal nreprducieperiod If she experiences present age-                       secluded.
specific fertility rate.  -ueully five-year averages ending In 1960,               sTctional enrollment (percent of secooder,) - Vo-caional institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clude technical, industrial, or other prograns which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, anna"l (thousands) - unnual number of                      or as depart ments of secondary Institutions.
ac.. ptor. of birth-control devices under asie  of national fanily                Puoil-teasher ratio - ordear-y. eokd secoary - Total studeots enrolled it
plannn                                          priga.                                 rmary and secondary levels divided by numbere of teachers in the cotra-
Family plnig-ues(percent of married women) - Percentage of                              spending levesl.
earnrid unman of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who uaa birth-control            Adult litearay rate (percent) - Literate adult. (able to reed and wrirn,  a
devicee to all marnied women in soe   age group.                                      a percentage of total aut population &agd 15 yaosr  and over.
FWOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
index of food productio  percapita (1970-100) - Indax nu"sr of per                  Paasenaer tars (per thousend population) - Passenger care comprise notor cars
Capita annual productionof all food  commoditiess                                  seating loee  than eight persons; secludes anbulencae, hearses end nilitary
Par capita supply of calories (percent.of requirements) - Computed from               vehicles.
noergy, equivalent of net food supplies available In country par capita           Radio receivers (per thousand porulationi) - All trpas of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to goenral public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
sexports. and changes in stock. lNst supplies secluda antel feed, seeds,            receivers in, countries and in years when registration of radio sate Was in
qusntitise used ic food processing, and losesa  In distribution.  ge-               effect; data for recent years say not be comparable since nost countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological noeds for nor-              abolishad licensing.
mel activity and health considering snvironmental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand Population) - TV recei,fers for broadcast to geoer&
weights, age and sen distributions of population, end allowing 10 per-                public per thoupand population; excludes unlic,nsed TV receivers in coun-
cant for waste at household level,                                                    trimes and in years when registration of TV $ero was in affect.
Per capita supply of protein      aaroa per day) - Protein content of per            . ews..per circulation (per thou   dpnlto)-Shcws the average circula-
capia ne  suply o  foo  perday.Sat supply of food io defined emto    f"al   eea                         eetnewspaper', defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries esatblished by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 gream of total protein per day sod 20 gram                  be "daily" if it appears at least four tiesm a week.
of actual and pulse protein, of which 10 grans should be animal protein.          Cinema anual attendance per capita per year - Bsead on the number of tickets
rheose standards are lover than those of 75 grans of total protein end                sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas, and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                   units.
FAO in the 7hird World Pond Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal end pulsa - Protein supply of food            DQFLOTHZST
derived from animals and pulses in grmes per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including arnad
Ch_ild (age& 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths par thoup-              forces and unemployed but sexcluding housewives, students, etc.  Derini
and in aeg  group 1-4 yearsr, to childrau In this age group.                          tious in various countries aer  not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALLTH                                                                               Aericulture (percout) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Awerage number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
reamining at birth; usually five-year averaeSs ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (prerent) - Labor force in mining, conkstruction, manufacturing and
and 1971.                                                                             electrlclty, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand4) - Annul deaths of infants -under               Psrtici2:ti1on rats (p.rcent) - tot.l, male, end faemle - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                             feal  lbor fo rce as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water pret of pultOn) -total. urban. aed rural -                         Thees are rL1.0' adjuet.d p.rLiCipstion r.tac reflecting  ges-...
Numbr o  peple(totl   ra,edrrl   ihraoal   cest                                  structure of the population, end long tine trend.
safe watter supply (includee treated surface waters or untreated but               Econom:ic,,dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 61 and over to
uotasimaetd weter auch as that: from  protected boreholee, springs,                telbor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populatione.
Co an urban are  as public fountain or etandpost located not more                 Iu~   imuON
tham 200 eaters from  a house say be considered as being within rea-               PeceM   ae  f  rvtat  income (both in cash and kind) rece.ived by richest 5
sonable accoes  of that house.  In rural areas reamonable access would                percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorast 40 percent
imly that the houseewifa or members of the household do not have to                   of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching che Easily's
water needs.                                                                      FOVST!_TARGET GROUPS
Acco3e to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban. end               Estimated akbsolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban _end rural -
rural - Nomber of people (ttotl, urban, and rural) served by sercret.                   Absolute p-ovrty inoe-  leve  ie chat income leve  belo  which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excrete                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirement. in not
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with or with*est                    affordable.
treatment, of human excrete, and waste-waetr by water-borne systams                Estlmated relativ  p-ovrty income, levl (US$ por capita) - urban end rural -
or the use of pit priviss end ailmil.r inetallations.                                 Relative poverty income-level is that income lavel less than one-third
population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                   per capita personal Income of the contry.                 - _
physicians qualified from  a medical school at university level.                   Rstimtetd memuliatn  below Poverty incom" level (perient) - urbanadrua 
Population por nursing person - Population divided by number of                         Percent of population (urban aad rural) who are aith., "absolute   urr"lor
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                     "relative poor" whichever is grveater.
assistant aursee.
Economic and Social Date Division
tconomic Analysis an  Poj ectioe        artment



0934         1975        1916         1977         1979        "97          199         1995        1990        1975-77  1,T-SSp       9318    1196-90r    1974       1977       1980        1985        1997
1973 ool...
1.0?  8.*    .lo..                   116,219       123,039     13,334       140 .6      147,20       057.2       167,69      232,452      36089,        9.6 I      9.0       S. 5       9.         9.9        09       184         100         9.
2.  414o. 09  03                     ~~~         ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~43      4,2793 1,7 36         -90           72          397           2                                                    -         61        -.           . 0.1
9.  ooo.. Donsolo Iooo.9.        ~~~~~~~119,290  123,039    173,612      142,194     14, 231      157.027     096,992     251.955      366,410       0.         .3        96         9.9      I00.0       10.0o    10.0        70.0        10.
~~~~*  3*.9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14,9                 1430        04,97        1,9         1,39         10,70       1,70          '1912      334          -.        -07         91        05         1.9         9.1        7.6        7.          82
5.  8.9991. - 0*1,..        9991          9.376       9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~39  10.47  1109   11,764        113.8      82.47         2.90        6.9      101         9.        7.9         0.4        7.4        8.4        8.          85
6.      Adj9   7   8..i.*d             9,977        9,376      '0.79          12010      11,1459     1 2,463S     03.295      1I0.81       7,2 11     .II 6        9.4      10.5I       S.7I       I.,         8.4       8.          8.         86
7.  6..o,,o2. Cap 54-6)            6,~~~ ~ ~~~~~326  4,930   3,91           977       1,241          005        -39       -2.699       -, 1.91        .         .          .         .          5.4        3.        04         -11         0.
8.69753=     924994                          94.77        9677       10.51        110,172      1335        01,8          1.8 1       97,1 1.  "  19,44         34         7.        8.        6.8        80.        17,        764        7,4         79
9.  P13*2 I932.~~~~~~~~~~~63 ~28,513            31.190       35,090       211 32,308   1,97        33,966      00,822      61.673       99,'363      30         3.        97          :0.      24.3        2.        23.         24.6       0.
70.  8.619-2  8296949              ~~~~~~~~~~21,130  04,492   29,148      09.48I       28,941      32,3798       6,4        90,429       96,336      11.7        7.1      10.        9.2        1812         47       21.6       34.0        25.
11.  9C.*963 8226992               22,484~~~~~~~"19  26.290  31.441       32,623       39,00,7     35,640       3941       26.73       100.966       130         71       1.3        9.          i91i       L         2.          39         2.
9  m m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 I                                                                                    .                    A          9         2                      56 2.
09..*7 40949                  ~~~~~~       ~~~~~1,398    2337  1,392  1,1~1~7     0,53         1,747       0,898       36,90        6.57        -9.       10.9       1'3.0     02.6        10.        100        1270'9                0.
9.t.olas *66 3996o2309..      ~~~~~2,962     3,0         3,6           .           ,70         5,0         5,740       1.1.83      23,30        011       022        0.         4.         23.4       33.9       38.5       38.0         6.
030.09 1*222*846299 49949     ~~~~4,962      3,819       3,532        3.936       3,339        3,76        3,4          6.964      06,932      -_11.0     -0.9       13.1      094         393        0.03       23.0       20.8        3.6
66966*0 Good.                 ~~~~~~       ~~~~~3,0119  3,3  ,3        ,7          ,9                       ,43        0,17        10,76        -0,5       7.7       10.3      06.         0 4 7       56       357         25.7        04.
3T.1 (I09)                        10,64 14,1 1,43 6.9                                 237          383        1,94         0,3         6,1          19         9.         36       9,         19. 0      10.0       10.        699          6.
3409.2                          ~~~~         ~~~~       ~~~~~~~980    93  0,298  0,62  2,173  2.451        2,2961      3.453        3,540      39.        46          .        00.0       12.3        I1,9      13.9        3.          7.
-     000.9 189i~~~~~~~~~3399.0 4992.           3~~~~~~~,345  3,407       2,93           3,9       0,992        6,42-       4,9          0079       48.889        4.6       7.4       116.0     03.'3       42.6       36:.9      28.3       26.7        06.0
999.*1                                      670        6,09         0,14          9.70       I1,0        1,613        1:,163      2,0          4,225      13.4        6.       1.         11.         94          3.         .9         94          .
69-p.oo**.d  0002*        634          645         ~~~~         ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~790  99 1234  1.06  1,83      3,3         6,404       15.       47.0       13.4      13,3         9.         S.1        9.3        8.          84
98.9.,22o3o9.d 4094.           ~~~~~~~2,086  0,379       0,449        3.388       4.405        3,393       6,747       17,996      3496         473        9.        22.01     13.         26.2       27.9       39.        4774       31.0
966.99 Good.                    1~~     ~    ~~~~        ~~~          ~~95  00  381  279  303   027          33           39          776      12.6       0.         8.i.                   ,          ,          .           .          .
-111 (909                          7,931         9,670      20,028       11.139      12,114       14,464       16,939      37.702       72,483      15.0       10.7      17.3       14.4       0.         166. .0   1I.0       10,         90.9
(866r  9989*99899  098  197071.)
2.  '1o.*3y39.2                                               09.4         4.            97         3.           0.           99          3.           0.          .         ,          ,         .
3.  S oI...                                      30,0          30,1        49,9         49.6        56.0         30.3        30.3         31.3        32.3        6.3       6,4        8.9       8.
5.  879920 9969.1*226                 7~    ~     ~~~~        ~~~ ~~9 100  113  112'    105          120          127         179         23         7,0       1.         7,0       5,
2.                          M~o 99   o.0                       000          101          00           1            23         134          83          231        36        79          .6 4      ,
3.  3T9*  90  -1. 0Go                             CI"          106          114          113         100           98          95           97         101         -8
4.9.1802   Es78                                              10           046          202         .            .           .             ,           .
5      h....Etog  4..                      24           100         131          074         .            .            .            ,           .          .  
8,  2.20926 2999545999                ~~~~~~~~~~~1975-77  197984W    198145  1006-90                                               .       089s831970                                   1975-
I.  2099                           ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~     ~ ~~~4:11.60  3.923  2.7820  2.913                                     1    .bo99*(4060279.4                            34. 1
3.  4o.o.2. 8*3609.1 1.016.. 2*6.  ~~~0.212      020           .2'34      0.19017.)
4.  U9rls  81*.   .ol. W.86                     0.065         0,09        0,289        021                                                     0.7Io    0040)1.                                 32.4
5.  7*89989)109                    ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~0.103  0.000  0.075  0.079                                                          1.1
6.  0oo9*1..o6000p                ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~     ~~0.250  0.228  0.839  4.2312                                        3.1.  41019243,8                                   39
O"                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.2.  I.---            8.       4.
8,  9709010 9092110!                   ~~~~~        ~~~~~       ~~~1974  1975  1976  1977                                          33         i                              .         4.
1.  4,99903 2*7*0,9                  00~~    ~     ~~~~     ~ ~~.:7  9.5  16.~7  104
1,1, ~~~~~  8202*92   05              10.3~~~~~~~~~  0.4        100          1.
2.  4,909776 909932C999*. -          6~~    ~     ~~ ~ ~~.5  8.  9,7
0.  7.99906 9*olo.                   0~~     ~    ~~~~       ~ ~~~~.2  5.8  1,
4.1.:  C49029   0 .d  *o   9o913                   04.0           4,7
*5 F.8.o*l4oo.ooono.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. .



-26-                                                                         ANNEX
rF-g 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Mi lIeso USS)
A C T U A                                                                   P R O J E C T F D
19741            1975             1976            797t              197R1            1979             1980            1985             1990.
A.  tuoraro of Balance of Payments
1.    Exports (incl. NF5)                                    8,471            9,376            10,797           12,826           12,772            15,373           17,775         40,115            76.892
2.    Imports (inNl. SF0)                                    14,678           14,308            4,440            13,847           14,194           15,749           16,907         35,166            71,034
3.    Renouroe  _alaoc                                      -6,207            -4,932           -3,643           -1,021            -1,422            - 376              788          4,943             3,798
4.    Net Focter Seroice Incone                              - 916            -1.770           -2.339            -2,859           -3,440           -3,873           -4,374         -7,068           -10,129
1.  Net Interest raonentu                                 - 652           -1.498           -1,809            -2,103           -2,284           -2,412           -2,521          -3.538           -4,604
2.  Dittoc  Inoestment - n-omI I                          - 248             - 235            - 380            - 455            - 493             - 542            - 590         -1,030            -1775
3.  Other Factor Smeo-oc  Inotne                          -  16             -  37            - 150            - 3D1            - 663             - 919           -1,263         -2,500           -3.750
5.    Curreon Transfers iNeN)                                     1                2                4                 6                7                7                 7              7                7
6.    Balance on Current Account                            -7,122            -6,700           -5,978            -3,874'          -4,855           -4,242           -3,579         -2,112            -6,324
7.   Net Pri-tae Dire-t Itoest.t t                             887               892              962               840              780              770              760             750              750
Medium a-d Long Term Lopis
a. Traditional Sources-
S.    Oinoursemonts                                           1,956            1,612            Z,054             2.553            3.303            3,571            4,005          6.599            10,328
9.    A-mrtitation                                           - 739             - 992           -1,350           -1,701            -1,280           -1,218           -1,518         -3,818            4,146
10.    Net Oinbursemtn                                         1.217              620              703              852            2,D23             2,353            2,487          2,781            4,182
b. Financial Creadut
11.    Disbursemenns                                          5,103             4,524            5,978            5,940             5,671            5,644            6,603          3,574             8,523
12.    Amortiation                                           -1,181            -1,193           -1,664          -I,426             -3.526           -4,150           -5,008         -3,907            -4,947
13.    Not Oitburseem- ns                                     3922              3,331            4,314            3,ji4            2,145             1,694              595           - 333            3,576
14.    Use of IMF R7esource                                                                        -                         -                         -                -
15.    She-orn- Capitca  and Capital c.e.i.                     138               788           -2,256             -                  -                -                 - 
16.    Resemme, (7..... Otorease 7
1. Rosette Attune0actuor!                                   958             1,062           -2,255             -699               -93             -375             -263         -1,086            -2,183
0. Sot lam Valeacton AA7 untoe5c                            185               074             -252              -_6               _-                                 - _            _
3. Ch-mgo- in Re-e-o. LoevItL                             1,043             1,238           -2,507              -715              -93             -J75             -263         -1,086            -2,183
17.    Foreidn ft-nande Retorvs.                              5,272             4,034            6,541             7,295            7,349            7,724            7,987          11,894           20,160
(End of Poerid)
E.  Grant and Loan Commi tnents
1.    Total MELT Leant                                       7,179             7,005            9,482            9,637
1.1.  lORD                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       ~~~242  426  498  425
12.  I0                                                        293               167              186              270
1.3.  eCo_rnrents                                              988               512            1,251             1,184
1.4.  StPpli-rs                                              1,088             1,376            1,300             1,100
1.5.  Bond.                                                      25              -                269               718
1.6.  Finanoial Credits                                      5,103             4,524            5,978            5,94o
C. Memorandum Iteen
. Grant Elemet of Total Commitnentn                        2.5               2.5              2.5              2.8
2.    Averagt In tore.nt (Per_ent)                                9.5              9.5               9.4              9.3
3.    A-erege Matority (Years)                                    9.0              9.9               8.3              5.9
21  Inolade- lultHe1teral agenoies, bil1atera  lndsers, suppli-em   credits and bond
b/  IFS Line 79d.
cJ  IF  Litm  Id.
Septosb-r 1, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 6
-27-
DEBT AND CREDITWnRTHINESS
Actual
1974          1975           1976          1977
A. Medium and Long-Term Debt
(Dtsbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                     17,166        21,171         25,985         32,037
1.  By type of Debt
1,  Financial Credits                                 11,211        14,561         18,194         21,52X8
2.  Traditional Lenderea/                              5,955         6,610           7,791       ,10,509
2.  By type of Borrower
1.  Public and Publicly Guaranteed                     8,533        11,461         14,852         19,309
2.  Private                                                5623      9,710         11,133         L2,7Z90
2. Net Debt Service                                            2,572         3,653          4,82S        64,2)30
1.  Total Interest                                          1,370        1,863           2,091         2,442
2.  Net Interest                                              652        1,498           1,310         2,10.
3. Public Debt Service                                         1,287         1,550          1,982          2,500
B.  Iebt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio bf                                    30.4          39.3           44.7          48.6
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio c/                              33.3           41.8          48.2           52.1
3.  Public Debt Servicp Ratio                                    15.2           16.5          18.4           19.6
4.  Liquidity Ratio d                                            23.0           33.3          43.0           59.2
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP !                                        2.6            3.0           3.6            4.0
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP e                                     1.3            1.3            1.5           I.o
7.  Total DOD/GDP e/                                             17.0           17.2          19.2           20.5
C.  Terms
I.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD fl                           10.9           10.9           9.9
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD f/                                20.5           21.5          22.8           24.0
0.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports  (incl. NFS)                     48.1          42.9           55.6          61.3
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                             25.7          14.6           20.3           13.8
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                             53.4           34.0          36.4           22.4
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRO Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                  3.5           4.1            2.!           3.9
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                            4.9            5.2           5.0            4.8
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                            3.0            2.5           2.4            2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                               Outstanding Becember 3i,1977.
Amount                             Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                 1,540                               4.8
2.  Other Multilateral                                                     815                               2.5
3.  Governments                                                          2,939                               9.2
4.  Suppliers                                                            3,773                              11.8
5.  Bonds                                                                1,222                               3.8
6.  Financial Credits                                                  21,528                               67.2
7.  Other                                                                  219                          -   0.7
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                    32,037                              100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                              19,309                              60.3
G.  Debt Profile
I.  Net Debt Service. 978"85/Total DOD end of 1977                                          199.0
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT loans n.e.*.
b/ Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS.
c/  Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year)
in excess of 3 months imports.
e/  In constant 1975 prices.
f/ As percent of DOD at beginning of )ear.
Note:  Debt service ratios have been calculated on the basis of net rather
than gross interest payments in order to take into account interest
earned upon 3razil's internationial reserves.
September 1, 1978



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of December 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose     Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                1,360.5
756   1971  Brazil                            Ports                45.0          12.2
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica             Industry             64.5           1.0
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas       Power                60.0            .1
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                            Land Settlement       6.7           3.2
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power               125.0          38.7
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                            Agro-Industry        54.0          31.2
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power                81.0         33.7
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional de Habitaco        Water Supply         36.0           4.0
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education            23.5          19.2
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways            175.0         33.3
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads               110.0         42.3
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0         82.4
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0         55.0
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture          23.0          16.8
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways             75.0         40.5
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0            11.2
1206   1976  Brazil                            Development Bank   85.0           72.3
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads        55.0          53.0
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture          40.0         37.0
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer           50.0         28.6
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de           Power                52.0         37.3
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of December 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose     Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300   1976  Eletrobras                      Power                 50.0            41.0
1302   1976  Brazil                          Nutrition             19.0            18.2
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de Rabitacao   Water Supply           40.0            32.2
1317   1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry        83.0            83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                 82.0           52.2
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   42.0             32.7
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer            64.0            60.4
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do           Fertilizer           82.0            59.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                          Education            32.0            31.3
1488   1977  Brazil                          Rural Development   17.0              16.6
1525   1978  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0           110.0
1537   1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   24.0              24.0
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                      Power               130.0           130.0
1557   1978  Brazil                          Roads                114.0          114.0
1562   1978  COPESUL                         Petrochemicals       85.0            83.3
1563   1978  Brazil                          Urban Transport      88.0            86.7
1568   1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension   100.0             100.0
1589   1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0              37.0
Total                                             3,887.1 /1
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                520.7
Total now outstanding                             3,366.4
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            35.3           10.5
Total now held by Bank                            3,355.9
Total undisbursed                                                 1,764.8
/1   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  On January 23, 1979, the
Executive Directors approved a loan of US$93 million for a sites and
services and low-cost housing project (see Report No. P-2442-BR of
January 10, 1979) and on January 30, 1979, the Executive Directors
approved a loan of US$100 million, for a northeast water supply and
sewerage project (see Report No. P-2447-BR of January 17, 1979).
These loans were signed on February 8, 1979 (Loans No. 1654-BR
and 1656-BR).



ANNEX II
-30-                                           Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31. 1978)
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                       Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                      Electrical Equipment         2.00       -       2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper               1.20       -       1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                            Automotive Parts             0.45       -       0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                      Motor Vehicles              2.45       -        2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                 Cement                       1.20       -       1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S.A.                                     Pulp                         4.00      -        4.00
1966/1968/
1972               Acos Villares, S.A.                                         Steel                        8.00     1.93      9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                          Pulp and Paper               3.78     3.41      7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                          Fertilizers                 8.22      3.03    11.25
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                    Petrochemicals               5.50     2.88      8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                     Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88      8.38
1971               Oxitepo, S.A. Industria e Comercio                          Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44      6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                   Pulp                        4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                      Cement                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                 Steel                      76.96      7.50    84.46
1973               Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                    Capital Market
Development                5.00      -        5.00
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                      Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                   Refining                  85.00      8.34    93.34
1974               Industrias Villares, S.A.                                   Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment            6.00       -       6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                            Textiles                   31.00       -       31.00
1975               Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                            Carbon Black                6.18      1.08      7.26
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                      Petrochemicals             10.00       -      10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.               Textiles                    6.45      1.00      7.45
1976               Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                    6.00       -       6.00
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -       20.00
1977               Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                 Mining                     15.00       -      15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                     Iron and Steel              7.0       3.0     10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                                              355.53    39.69   395.22
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                               259.70      8.51   268.21
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                     95.83    31.18   127.01
Total Undisbursed                                                                     10.38      6.94    17.32



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 39 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily although it
appears now that project completion will not be realized until early
1980 and postponement of the closing date would then be required.
In spite of tariff increases, the financial condition of the Port
of Santos continues to be unsatisfactory. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by
additional allocations from Brazil's federal Port Authority,
PORTOBRAS.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1979. The Stage II project was completed in 1978 at
a total project cost of US$970 million. This is thirty months behind
the appraisal schedule and at a cost of US$593 million (157%) higher
than anticipated at the time of appraisal. However, the project
remains economically justified. Production reached the project's
design capacity of 190,000 tons of raw steel per month (the annual
equivalent of 2.3 million tons) during one peak month in mid-1978.
Total production reached 2.2 million tons of raw steel equivalent in
1978.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule, and is expected to be completed by March of
1979. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which does not affect the
economic justification of the project, is being covered by local and
foreign borrowing. The first four units of the power plant were
commissioned in June of 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15. 1973: Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm development
plans whose credit component, to be financed by public financial
institutions, will be significantly higher than originally estimated,
although still low in comparison to other settlement projects.
Administrative delays in the release of public funds for farm
credit, road construction and COLONE working capital requirements
and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to about 240%. The original closing date of
December 1, 1978 has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about half completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 16 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems encountered and very heavy rains which delayed
construction of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is
about 54% over the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to
the need for increased physical quantities due to geological problems.
The rest of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works. However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million. Commitments under this loan are almost at a standstill as
a result of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general
slow-down in industrial investments. However, disbursements should
improve in 1979, as the Government is expected to restrict the
availability of subsidized credit. The Bank has proposed an
interim postponement of the closing date to June 30, 1979, pending
a review with the new Government taking office in March 1979 on
the prospects for future disbursements.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. A postponement of the closing date will be considered
following the return of a technical supervision mission scheduled
during February 1979.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Datet  January 9, 1975; Closing Date:  August 15,
1979. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Thirty-one sub-
projects have been satisfactorily completed out of a total of 41.
The remaining 10 subprojects are under construction and progressing
well. As of December 31, 1978, 89% of the loan proceeds had been
disbursed. It is envisaged that the loan will be fully disbursed
by June 1979. The Governmenrt recently increased COPASA's tariff
by 36% which should allow the company to operate on a sound financial
basis, at least during the first half of 1979.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because
of delays by the government in providing counterpart financing.
Project implementation units have been established in all eight
project states and these, together with the main project unit,
PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment studies in the
Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed and have
yielded useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government has decided to deregulate most freight
tariffs and is expected beginning in 1979 to make payments to the
railway to meet deficits on uneconomic services. These actions
should significantly improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 7
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule, and remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule. The
cold mill has been deleted from the project to reflect changes in
forecast demand. The Bank has recently agreed to three additional
changes in the project's scope as follows: construction of a con-
veyor belt system to deliver iron ore to the raw materials yard
(in lieu of a second rail line), an additional reheating furnace for
the hot strip mill, and changes in the port layout. COSIPA is pre-
paring for Bank review a comprehensive report on Stage III including
revised project capital cost, implementation time schedule and
financial projections. Due to a shortfall in the government's
equity contributions, COSIPA is experiencing some financial dif-
ficulties in spite of its improved operations.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on construc-
tion for this project during 1977 and 1978 because of heavy rains in
the project area. Physical completion of the project will probably
extend to 1981, and postponement of the closing date will be required.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal esti-
mate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from design
changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and equipment,
and in the cost of land expropriation. Modifications in the design
of emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants with a view to limiting further cost increases.
Project implementation had encountered certain opposition from the
population of the project area, which disagreed with the principles
and procedures for land expropriation, settlement, future land
tenure and the structure of the proposed cooperative system.
CODEVASF has revised the social strategy to be followed under the
project and is improving communications and relations with the area
population.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 8
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The
technical assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's
operations, marketing, and data processing systems is showing results.
The Government recently deregulated most foreign tariffs and is
starting to make payments to the railways to meet deficits on un-
economic services. These actions should assist in improving
FEPASA's financial position. Preliminary results of the Transport
Master Plan indicate that a major redimensioning of the railway will
undoubtedly be required.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Means of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been successful. Disbursements are behind the original appraisal
schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences are now partly resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the
industry's demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource
constraints of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate
commitment of the loan, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
so as to finance the full foreign exchange cost of subprojects.
However, commitment of the loan is progressing slowly because of
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
general slow-down in investments.  Postponement of the closing date
will be required.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Five sub-loans totalling US$101 million have
been committed with a total Bank contribution of US$23.5 million.
Prospects are good that the full amount of the loan will be com-
mitted by the end of 1978 or in early 1979.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at 10 of the 21 research stations included
in the project, and is expected to be accelerated during 1979.
Facilities and research programs at seven experiment stations in
the three priority regions (North, Northeast and Central-West) are
proceeding in accordance with project goals. Staffing is in
advance of project goals, but technical assistance being provided
by consultants and the training program are somewhat behind schedule.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 80% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 40% behind appraisal forecast, but the loan is expected
to be fully utilized by the closing date.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is seriously
under staffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the
project. The nutrition delivery system's field tests are pro-
ceeding reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial
credit components are behind schedule because of competitive
programs at subsidized rates. Measures to deal with these
problems are under study.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully com-
mitted for the financing of subprojects in the Metropolitan area of
Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in the
interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in rural
areas of the state of Minas Gerais. It is envisaged that the
closing date will have to be extended by one year to September 30,
1981, to allow for completion of disbursements.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
have not started.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 30% complete and about 60% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded; the remainder are expected to
be awarded by mid-1979. With the exception of a relatively minor
component, project execution is on schedule. The shortfall (25%)
in loan disbursements, caused by delays in the procurement process,
is expected to be reduced to 10% by mid-1979 and eliminated by the
end of that year.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays. The credit component is
expected to gather momentum in the near future. Mainly as a
result of administrative difficulties, participation in this
project by landless producers is significantly lower than
originally envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state govern-
ment and the participating banks have improved this situation
recently. Both the health and education components have advanced
significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
expected to affect project execution.
1452      Vocational Training ProJect:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. With one exception (FUNDACENTRO),
the technical assistance program is underway at the training centers.
1488      CEARA Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily after initial local funding delays. Agricultural
extension and experimentation services, agricultural credit, input
supply, marketing and storage services are making good progress,
while the parts of the project relating to land purchase credit,
agricultural mechanization and cooperative societies organization
are progressing at a slower than expected rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction of
three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is progressing
well. Equipment contracts have been signed for two of these plants,
committing approximately US$50 million of the loan. Bids are underway
for the third plant.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on schedule.
Civil works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm
development component is showing encouraging initial results. How-
ever, administrative problems are causing difficulties in making
credit available to the smaller farmers and tenants.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
six months due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market; however, it is
not certain that project completion will also be delayed.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule. The training
component of the maintenance program for this project is now
underway.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Proiect:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982. The
project is proceeding according to schedule.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing according to schedule. Contracts for
civil works in Curitiba, Recife, and Salvador have been signed. The
Bank has approved a subproject proposal for Porto Alegre and is ex-
amining a proposal for Belo Horizonte.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency EMBRATER has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized and project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the
project has advanced satisfactorily after initial local funding delays,
and substantial progress is being made in the majority of the components.



-40-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
VALESUL ALUMINUM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by sponsors and
VALESUL to prepare project: Approximately 2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:  VALESUL, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, Reynolds
International Inc., and Billiton International
Metals Ltd. (a subsidiary of Royal Dutch
Shell Ltd.)
(c) First presentation to the Bank: Early 1977
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November, 1977
Ce) Completion of Negotiations: February 13, 1979
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: June 15, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) A modification of raw material supply contracts to be an event
of default (para. 38);
(b) A modification of power supply agreement to be an event of
default (para. 41);
(c) Bank's loan to be linked to commercial bank's loan through usual
cofinancing arrangements (para. 45);
(d) Shareholders to provide VALESUL all additional funds that
could be required to complete the project (para. 45);
(e) Effectiveness of Chase Loan to be condition for effectiveness
of Bank loan (para. 45);
(f) A change in agreement between major shareholders to be an event
of default (para. 48);
(g) Shareholders not to sell their participation in VALESUL
except as for (h) below (para. 48);



-41-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(h) CVRD to sell a percentage of VALESUL's voting shares to private
Brazilian investors so that both private and Brazilian shareholders
would hold more than 50% of VALESUL's voting shares (para. 49);
(i) VALESUL to undertake various financial obligations (para. 51);
(j) VALESUL to have its accounts audited (para. 51);
(k) Government to take all action with regard to aluminum prices
required to ensure VALESUL a reasonable rate of return (para. 51);
(1) VALESUL to prepare a marketing plan with assistance of shareholders
(para. 53); and
(m)  VALESUL to execute and operate project with due regard to
environmental factors (para. 60).






5  > ~~~~  6=o u 0 ~~~~~~;,  ' eP $ ' ; J 1 ; ' -~~~~~~~~~~~~e l>> ; j .ao [ B R D 1 R222~~I  R  I  22
E N  E Z U  E L A                                   -i,               ,
C  C) t      t Y  : 0  M  9   00 A   
J _--~~~                                                  /    S)' ' '
Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<
5  5                                                                                      zu~~~~~~~~~~~7       5
;; ;EL ,<tC H-V  ,C
M~~ ~~~~    RD A <        Z       buro\4    ; e                              Chnb                            ,         
VALUSULA ALUmiNW   iPROECT;                                                  I, 3L h-f*;-{C                                                   F        i|
,   w o       :EA* i _' ;  '     - op
'       M'!!;0X:!-Cr-'.    ', - =..!,,, ,   
#f=,,Aff.f 'e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TO'"'R     At  






TO JAPERI   400T                                                                                                                              BR /46r
43 2 v?' < t / ffi ej ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L 32BEO HRZNT/ '-5
IVALESUL ALUMINUM  PROJECTTO
2P'4U _'2g   t   (  g <                           /   7
QU A_  RA RA
0f~~~~~            ISL~~5  A NVD
TPR IT
~~~  ~     ~    ~     9A  Y'
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0D
-5t/etrt.2 . k (,< E                                                   _ E                                                                                               '       _P  T    A    A r
000
R.C  A                                                             g=__ ___-_______________________i__                                                                           0  ? DS22t  i \i   :  ?.2N!Rio  de  J/4000.    RAT  001000    040f
., ip  t  ,)25Ft2F -2zDs                                       X94/i                                   ;~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iB  7E     -: ?-   0    VT~pOO OTO CBOOOTO0i 3     3'3
04000--:A- C0oro0000
K                                                                         A   T  I z_s   b  e   F                             hF  #als  A   N   f  I  C-  0  C  E  A   N  :        B OEO 22 7
pAB
0000  0000  0000              4000                   4010                     T001                    0010                    4RO00                   4010  000 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'r



