CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1660 BR
Shareholder Agreement
(VALESUL Aluminum Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE
and
SHELL BRASIL S.A. (PETROLEO)
and
REYNOLDS INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Dated March 7, 1979


﻿0 )LOAN NUMBER 1660 BR
SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank),
on one side, and, on the other side, COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE
(hereinafter called CVRD) and SHELL BRASIL S.A. (PETROLEO) (here-
inafter called Shell), and REYNOLDS INTERNATIONAL, INC. (herein-
after called RII) (hereinafter sometimes individually called
Shareholder and collectively called the Shareholders).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and VALESUL ALUMINIC S.A. (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to ninety-eight million dollars
($98,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Shars,olders undertake
certain obligations with respect to the Borrower and said loan;
WHEREAS CVRD, Shell and RII hold 60.9459%, 35% and 4.0541%
of the voting stock of the Borrower, respectively; and
WHEREAS the Shareholders in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrowei, have agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.    Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Loan Agreement including the Reci-
tals thereto have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the term "Affiliate" means any company directly or indirectly
controlled by (a) CVRD or a Subsidiary of CVRD or both, (b) RII or
Reynolds Metals Company or both, or (c) Shell or N.V. Koninklijke
Nederlansche Petroleum Maatschappij, a Netherlands compan, (here-
inafter called Royal Dutch) or The Shell Transport and "'rading
Company Limited, an English company (hereinafter called Shell T.
and T.) or any company other than Shell, in whatever country
organized, in which Royal Dutch and Shell T. and T. both together
or either of them shall directly or indirectly through one or more


﻿intermediaries own or have the right to exercise control of share
capital carrying more than fifty per cent (50%) of the voting
rights.
ARTICLE II
Payment of Capital and Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. CVRD, Shell and RII shall provide to the
Borrower funds up to one hundred and forty-seven million dollars
($147,000,000) equivalent in respect of acquisition of capital
stock of the Borrower as and when required for che purpose of
carrying out the Project.
Section 2.02. CVRD, Shell and RII shall, in addition to
the amounts referred to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement and
Recitals (C) and (D) of the Loan Agreement, provide to the Bor-
rower funds up to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000) equiva-
lent in respect of acquisition of capital stock of the Borrower
as and when required for the purpose of carrying out the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) Upon request by any of the Shareholders
or the Bank during the execution of the Project, the Bank and the
Shareholders shall review the estimated cost of the Project,
and, if it results from the review that such cost exceeds four
hundred and three million dollars ($403,000,000) equivalent, the
Shareholders shall, within 90 days from the date of such review,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan of action for purposes of
financing the completion of the Project.
(b) The Shareholders shall carry out such plan of action
promptly thereafter.
Section 2.-04. If the Shareholders fail to agree on the
plan of action referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or if
such plan is not satisfactory to 'the Bank, CVRD, Shell and RII
undertake to provide to the Borrower, in form and on terms
*     permitted by the Loan Agreement, such funds as shall be required
to complete the Project.
Section 2.05. The Shareholders shall provide to the Borrower
such funds as shall be required by the Borrower to achieve, on the
Compliance Date, a debt/equity ratio of 60:40.


﻿*                            -3-
Section 2.06. The obligations of the Shareholders under
Sections 2.01, 2.02, 2.03 (b), 2.04 and 2.05 of this Agreement
shall be several and proportionate as follows: 60.9459% shall be
the responsibility of CVRD, 35% shall be the responsibility of
Shell and 4.0541% shall be the responsibility of RII, such obliga-
tions shall be several, not joint, and shall be independent of
each other, and neither CVRD nor Shell nor RII shall be entitled
to deny or delay performance of its obligations on grounds of
non-performance by the other Shareholder.
Section 2.07. For purposes of this Article the Project shall
be deemed completed on the Compliance Date.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Each of the Shareholders shall exercise its
rights and powers as a shareholder of the Borrower and every other
right, power and remedy available to it, to cause the Borrower
punctually to perform all of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement, and shall not take any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of such obliga-
tions; provided, however, that this Section shall not be construed
so as to require any provision of funds, materials or equipment to
the Borrower in addition to the funds to be provided to the
Borrower pursuant to Article II of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The obligations of the Shareholders under
Article II of this Agreement shall be suspended in the event
of physical impossibility for the Borrower for a period of one
hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days or for a period of one
hundred and eighty (180) days in the aggregate within any nine
(9) month period, to carry out the Project, as a result of war
(declared or not), invasion or revolution in Brazil, or if any act
or acts, or omission to act, of the Guarantor or of any govern-
mental authority of the Guarantor not provoked by a failure of the
Borrower to comply with any law or regulation of the Guarantor or
of a governmental authority of the Guarantor; provided, however,
that if within a period of eighteen (18) months after the date of
suspension of such obligations the carrying out of the Project
can be resumed, the obligations of the Shareholders hereunder
shall resume their full force and enforceability as if no such
suspension had occurred, except that if the obligations of the


﻿40
Shareholders hereunder shall have been suspended for a continuous
period of more than six (6) months, the date on which such obliga-
tions shall be fully resumed shall be a date nine (9) months after
the date on which such physical impossibility shall have ceased.
The expression "physical impossibility for the Borrower ... to
carry out the Project" shall include any involuntary divestiture
of (i) all :r substantially all of the assets of the Borrower, or
(ii) all or substantially all of the shares of the Borrower held
by Shell or RII or by any Affilitate of Shell or RII.
(b) The Shareholders shall be permanently freed from their
obligations under Article II of this Agreement if, eighteen (18)
months after the date of suspension under paragraph (a) of this
Section of such obligations, the physical impossibility therein
referred to shall still continue.
Section 3.03. Until the termination of this Agreement neither
CVRD nor Shell nor RII nor any of their Affiliates shall assign,
sell or otherwise dispose of, or pledge or otherwise encumber, any
share subscription rights or shares in the capital stock of the
Borrower except for the benefit of the Guarantor or the Bank,
without the prior written consent of the Bank, any such consent to
be always conditional upon the assignee, purchaser or creditor
assuming all the obligations of the pertinent Shareholder under
this Agreement; provided, however, that no consent of the Bank
shall be required for any transfer of such rights or shares to any
Affiliate of the pertinent Shareholder if such Shareholder shall
guarantee such obligations.
Section 3.04. Each of the Shareholders shall take such action
as shall be required on its part to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the study and preparing the marketing plan referred to in
Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement by the date specified therein.
Section 3.05. Upon termination of the Alumina Supply Agree-
ments, the Shareholders shall ensure that all supplies of alumina
made available to the Borrower are made available to it at a
competitive price and on an arm's-length commercial basis.
Section 3.06. (a) Shell and RII hereby agree to CVRD taking
the action described below and CVRD hereby agrees to inform the
Bank of any proposed offer resulting from such action.
(b) CVRD shall take such action as shall be required on its
part to offer, for sale to private Brazilian investors, such


﻿percentage of the Borrower's voting stock held by CVRD as shall be
required to reduce the percentage of such voting stock held by
CVRD to not more than 49% and to not less than 40%, such offer to
be made before the Completion Date.
(c) If by the ,Completion Date not all of the Borrower's
voting stock to be sold pursuant to paragraph (a) above has been
sold by CVRD, CVRD shall offer, for sale to private Brazilian
investors: (i) a third-of the remainder of such stock during
each year of a three-year period starting on the Completion
.Date, and (ii) in the second and third years of such period, the
stock unsold during the previous year or years as the case may
be.
(d) If in any of the years referred to in paragraph (b)
above, the Borrower's voting stock held by CVRD and allocated to
be sold during that year is not sold, CVRD shall, in consultation
with the Bank, seek the advice of an expert third party to deter-
mine the timing and the terms and conditions of, and the most
appropriate manner to proceed with, the sale of such stock.
Section 3.07. Arbitration. (a) Any controversy between the
Bank and the Shareholders and any claim by any such party against
any other such. party arising under this Agreement which shall not
be determincl by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b) The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank on the
one side, the Shareholders on the other side.
(c) The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators
appointed as follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the
Bank; one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Shareholders,
or, if they shall not agree, by the International Chamber of
Commerce (hereinafter called ICC), and the third arbitrator
(hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed
by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by
the ICC. If the Bank shall fail to appoint its arbitrator,
such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any
arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign,
die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be
appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for the appoint-
ment of the original arbitrator and such successor shall have all
the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.


﻿-6-
(d) An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this
Section upon notice by the party instituting such proceeding to
the other parties. Such notice shall contain a statement setting
forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be submitted to
arbitration and the nature of the relief sought. Within sixty
(60) days after the giving of such notice, each side shall notify
the other side of the arbitrator appointed by it.
(e) If within ninety (90) days after the giving of such
notice instituting the arbitration proceeding the parties shall
not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may request the appoint-
ment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f) The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and
place as shall be fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral
Tribunal shall determine where and when it shall sit.
(g) "ubject to the provisions of this Section and except
as the parties shall otherwise agree, the Arbitral Tribunal
shall decide all questions relating to its competence and shall
determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal
shall be by majority vote.
(h) The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair
hearing and shall render its award in writing. Such award may be
rendered by default. An award signed by a majority of the Arbitral
Tribunal shall constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed
counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this
Section shall be final and binding upon the parties to this
Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply with any such
award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
(i) The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of
the arbitrators and such other persons as shall be required for
the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. If the parties shall
not agree on such amount before the Arbitral Tribunal shall
convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be
reasonable under the circumstances. The Bank and each Shareholder
shall defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The
costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne
equally by the Bank, on the one side,.and the Shareholders on the
other. Any question concerning the division of the costs of the
Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such costs shall
be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.


﻿S- 7 -
(j) The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section
shall be in lieu of any other procedure for the determination of
controversies between the parties to this Agreement or any claim
by any such party against any other such party arising hereunder.
(k) If within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the
award shall be delivered to the parties the award shall not be
complied with, any party may enter judgment upon, or institute a
proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent juris--
diction against any other party, may enforce such judgment by
execution or may pursue any other appropriate remedy against such
other party for the enforcement of the award or the provisions of
t*his Agreement,
(1) Service of any notice or process in connection with any
proceeding under this Section or in connection with any proceeding
to enforce any award rendered pursuant to this Section may be made
upon the parties to this Agreement in the manner provided in
. Section 3.10 of this Agreement. The parties to this Agreement
waive any and all other requirements for the service of any such
notice or process.
Section 3.08. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the Effecti-e Date of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.09. This Agreement and the obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.10. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall have been delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request.
Section 3.11. No delay in exercising, or omission to exer-
cise, any right, power or remedy accruing to any party under this
Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power or
remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence
in such default; nor shall any action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, affect


﻿-  -
or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of
any other or subsequent default.
Section 3.12. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 3.10 of this Agreement:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Shareholders:
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
Av. Graga Aranha 26-50 Andar
20000 Rio de Janeiro - RJ
Brasil
Cable' address:                     Telex:
VALERIODOCE                         (021) 23205 and
Rio de Janeiro                            21975
Shell Brasil S.A. (Petroleo)
Av. Rio Branco 109
20000 Rio de Janeiro - RJ
Brasil
Cable address:                      Telex:
SHELL BR                            (021) 23179
Rio de Janeiro
Reynolds International, Inc.
West Broad Street No. 6601
Richmond
Virginia
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                     Telex:
FOILWAX                             827359
Richmond
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and delivered in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ N. Ardito-Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE
By Is/ Luis do Amaral Pereira
Is/ Samir Zraick
Authorized Representative
SHELL BRASIL S.A. (PETROLEO)
By /s/ Peter Landsberg
Authorized Representative
REYNOLDS INTERNATIONAL, INC.
By Is/ Eugene Desvernine
Authorized Representative


