Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 9692
f,i A(: i,, i v!V. uB1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1885-TUN)
JUNE 21, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regicn
This document has a rest -'ted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Tunisian Dinar (D)
Average Calendar 1989
D 1.00      US$1.05
US$1.00  =  D 0,95
At Appraisal (1979)
D 0.40     US$1.0
D1  =  US$2.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACU      Unite de Credit agricole
Agricultural Credit Unit
API      Agence de promotion des investissements industriels
Industrial Investment Promotion Agency
ASAL     Prgt A l'ajustement du secteur ag:icole
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
APMANE   Projet credit supervise dans le Nord Est
NE Supervised Credit Project
BNT      Banque nationale de Tunisie
National Bank of Tunisia
CRDA     Commissariat r6gional de developpement agricole
Regional Agricultural Development Commission
FOPRODI  Fonds de promotion du d6veloppement integre
Integrated Development Promotion Fund
FISDA    Fonds sp6cial de developpement agricole
Special Fund for Agricultural Development
FOSEP    Fonds special d'encouragement de la pgche
Special Fund for Fishery
MOA      Ministere de l'agriculture
Ministry of Agriculture
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD SANK                 FOR OMIAL U   OnL
Wai10n. O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oihu el OV4rneWGC*W&1
June 21, 1991
HEMORAIDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on TUNISIA
Third Agricultural Credit Prolect (Loan 1885-TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Tunisia - Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
1885-TUN)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office.   This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
'~~~
This document ha a resmtctd disuibution and may be used by fucipients only in the performance
of their official dut a Is contens may not othorwift be disclosed without Wortd Bak autohrizuon.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
.HIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1885-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
PREFACE .............. .................................                  i
BASIC DATA SHEET  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       iii
EVALUATION SUMHARY  .        .     . . . . . .  . . . . . . .   . ..    e. .. . . ..  v
I   INTRODUCTION  .*. . . . . . . . . . . ... . .   .                   I1
Backgsround  1                                               
Bank-financed Agricultural Credit  . . . . . . . . . . .        1
I-.  PROJECT FORMULATION   . .................   .                       2
Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal  . . .        2
Project Cbjectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . .        3
III. PROJECTIMPLEHEUTATION  ....  .        .  .  .    .................   .  5
Effectiveness and Start-Up   .   . . . . . . . .. . .. .        5
Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . a . . . * . . . .        7
Institutional and Financial Performance  . . . . . . . .        8
Reporting agd Auditing                                         10
Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . a  . . . . . . . .      11
Compliance with Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       11
IV.  PROJECT IMPACT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      .   12
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED   . . . . . . . . . . . . .        13
ANNEX I - Comparison of Appraisal and Actual
ANNEX 2 - Comparative Balance Sheets and Income Statements
Attachments
Comments from National Agricultural. Bank  . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
MAP - IBRD 14921R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CPIDIT PEDJICT
(LOAN 1885-TUi)
PRWFAC
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN) for which a loan of US$30.0 million was approved
in June 1980, The legal document was eigned in August 1980 and the Project
became effective on June 24, 1981. The original closing date was December 31,
1983, but was extonded four times up to December 31, 1986. At the tim of the
last disbursement on March 6, 1987, the entire loan amount of US$30;O million had
been disbursed.
2.    This report was prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Region, Agricultural Operations Division In Country Department II on the basis
of information available in the Bank central files, and a completion report
prepared bv BNT 1/ and delivered In Janua r  197.   The main sources of
information weret   the Appraisal Report No. 2934-TUN, dated May 27, 1980;
Supervision Reports; correspondence with the borrower and internal Bank memoranda
as %vailable in the EMENA Information Center. This paper represents the Bank's
view of the Project rather than an overview of BNT's Completion Report.
3.   This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). A copy
was sent to the Borrower on April 15, 1991, for cements by May 27, 1991.
Comments received from National Agricultural Bank are attached.
jj    National Bank of Tunisia (transformed into National Agricultural Bank -
BNA in October 1989).



- lli -
TUNISIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD) AG;RIC&ULTA CRDIT .fla
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. Key Projeot Data                     ADPraigs             Actal or
fL5StAt       2tiated actual.        Wraisah Iestite
Project costs (D '000)               23,740.01/         45,343.0                  1t0
Loan amount (US$ million)                30.0                30.0                   100
Date Board approval                  00/26/80            08/26/80
Date effeotiveness                   09/30/80            06/24/81
Closing date                         12/31/83            12/31/86
Economic rate of return (Z)          18 - 92              18 - 65
Number of subloans                    3,365               9,147                    272
B. Cumulative Disbursoeents              FYQ    nan   FY8    nan   nan   EYQ    zxaz
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)    17.1   13.3   24.5   30.0
Actual (US$ million)                           1.7    5.6   10.0   19.9   25.1   30.0
Actual as X of estimate                0     12.0   22.8   33.3
Date of final diebursement                                                        03/06iS7
Staff weeks
Identification
Preparation           54.6                                                                                54.6
Appraisal             63.6                                                                                63.6
Negotiation            5.9                                                                                 5.9
SuperySsion            0.1    3.7    1.0    9.5    5.6    4.1    3.5    0.4                               28.0
Otber/                 1.5    0.5            2.3    1.8    1.7             5.9                   1.0     14.5
TOTAL                125.7    4.2    1.0   11.8    7.4    6.8    3.5    6.3                      1.0    166.7
D. Project Dates
Activity                Original Plan R1Zioc                          Aatual
Appraisal report                                                     05/27/90
Negotiations                                                        05/12-1/80
Board approval                                                       06/26/80
Loan agroement                                                       08/06/80
Loan effectiveness        11/06/80                                   06/24/81
Loan amendment                                                      10/06/86
Closing                   12/31/83        12/31/64, 06/30/85,        12/31/86
06/30/86
1/ Project costs exclude incremental personnel costs (estimated at appraisal at about D 580.000) to make
them comparable to Project costs as estimated by BDT. Project costs in dollar terms were probably les
than estimated at appraisal because of Dinar devaluation over the Projoct period.
2/ This information comes from M1S; it may not be consistent with Mission Data, compiled from files.
3/ Includes PCR work.



- iv -
Z. Mh*aAinJM~
Z, lE"leD Det«~n, o
,ffid           (iii,Mvr   srs0Es   infid               d F         S,/
Idmoti/Pr.pration      10/79        3         42          Z A  WC
Appraisal              11/79        4         Al      (2) Z A
Subtotal                      7        126
Supervision 1          03/81        3          7          Z A    IC          2          1          r 0
Supervision 2          10/81        1          3          r                  2          3
Sup.rviein 3           07/62        1          7          Z                  3          2       H  F 0
Supervision 4          11/2         2         10          Z                  3          2       1  p 0
Supervision 5          06/83        1          3          Z                  3          2          F 0
Supervision 6          02/84        1          4          Z                  3          2       t  F 0
Supervision 7          10/85                              VA _  F            2          1          V 0
Subtotal                     10         41
TOTAL                        1         la
F. OthrPolet Dt
Borrower                       ancqi* National. de Tunicie (CDT)
Exeoutive ag^eny              Jenque Nationals de Tuniet (BCNT)
Pii%ca year                    January 1 - December 31
Nam. of curetncy (Cbbreviation)   Dinae  (D)
Curroeny ezbhange rate:
- Appraiai year average                  1979      US$1.00 - D 0.45
- Intervenin; year wilabted average      1966      US$1.00 - D 0.80
- Crpletiorn year average                lse       Us81. 00 - 0 0.88
IgoiWr   a1_2J:  Title: Fourth Aricoultural Credit Project
Loan amount (US$ mllion):   30.0
Date Board Approval:       07/07/87
a/      e - economist; A - financial analyst;       a *gronomist; M  - agricultural credit specialist.
b/ ; - problan-free or minor problems; I a moderate problem;  - major problem.
e/ 1 - improving;   - stationary; A - deteriorating.
d/ E - financial;   - managerial; I - technical; Z - political; 2 - other.



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1685-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMHARY
Objectives
1.    The main objectives of the Third Agricultural Credit Project in Tunisia
were to increase agricultural production and incomes of emall and medium farmers
as well as to improve the system of agricultural credit distributior by
strengthening the agricultural credit operations of the borrower, the Banque
Nationale de Tunisis (BNT).  This was to be done by improving the terms under
which agricultural loans were made, by improving loan supervision and recovery
practices and by establishing a credit extension service in which both BNT and
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) should share responsibilities (para. 2.02).
Imnilementation Exoerience
2.    Start-up was slow, with subloan applications and approvals well below
appraisal expectations, for reasons similar to those that had plagued earlier
lines of credit: competition from more attractive credit programs. For the
small- and medium-scale farms, the principal beneficiaries of the Bank-finaniced
subloans, Government also had a program of credit (FOSDA) whose interest rates
were more attractive thar those for Bank subloans.   In addition, MOA was
responsible for approving all subloans in this category, and once budgetary
resources for the IOSDA program became available, MOA channelled applications as
a priority for FOSDA financing (para. 3.03).   Similar competition plagued
progress on subloans intended under the Bank loan for commercial farm and agro-
industrial investments (paras 3.04 and 3.05).
3.    On the institutional side, a Joint BNT/MOA study group was to make
recommendations on incremental staffing and training for the decentralized MOA
credit units, but the study group was unable to agree on the extent of the
responsibilities of these units; meanwhile, the view in BIT as well as in the
Bank shifted toward the notion that BNT should be entirely responsible for credit
decisions, and ultimately incremental staffing and training programs were
implemented for BNT staff involved with agricultural credit (paras 3.06 and
3.12).
4.    The loan closing was  eventually postponed fuur times,  to close on
December 31, 1986, three years after the original loan closing. At this date,
however, the project had been fully implemented, with the number of subloans
being about equal to or, in the case of the small and medium farms, considerably
greater than, appraisal estimates (paras 3.07 and 3.08). In addition, BNT had
successfully decentralized its agricultural credit operations, streamlining and
improving the efficiency of the loan approval and supervision process (para.



- vi -
3.13). BHT also introduced cost accounting and analyzed the costs of agricultur-
al lending on an annual basis, ca stipulated in the Loan Agreement (para. 3. 15).
5.    Three issues on which there Was some progress during the project but that
nevertheless still posed problems for effective agricultural credit weret
(a) the large number of competing credit programs that offered an array of terms
and conditions and made agricultural credit delivery unnecessarily complicated
(par. 3.14); (b) low rates of cost recovery on agricultural subloans, reaching
only 72 percent by 1985; the rate of subloan recovery on each credit program
varied in direct proportion to the risk of default carried by BNT (para. 3.16);
and (c) lending interest rates that, until 1985, were too low to allow BNT to
break even on agricultural lending; the rates were increased in 1985, but
although reaching positive real levels, were probably still not sufficient to
allow BNT to earn an acceptable rate of return on equity (para. e.15).
Results
6.    Analysis by BNT of the project results indicates that the objectives of
increased agricultural production and incomes, particularly of the target group
of small and medium farmers, were largely surpassed (paras 4.01-4.03). Rates of
return, in both financial and economic terms, were cc-.*parable to those estimated
at appraisal, except for several of the models where the appraisal estimated
rs-os of return exceeded 65 percent; the actual rates estimated by BNT were still
Vf- Ligh, at 18 percent to 65 percent for the economic rates of return, and 24
pex6.vt to 62 percent for the financial (para. 4.04).
7.    The project can also take responsibility for improving agricultural credit
delivery, its other main objective.   BHT can now analyze its agricultural
portfolio, has more decentralized and streamlined credit procedures, has improved
credit recovery (although there is still room for improvement),.l/ and enjoys
wider margins for agricultural lending than before the project. Competition from
other credit programs was still a problem at the end of the project, but is now
being reeolved by subsequent Bank operations in Tunisia (para. 5.02).
Sustainabilitv
8.    The sustainability of benefits from the project should be good, both for
the benefits of the investments financed by the subloans and for the benefits
realized by BNT.   For the farmers, unless relative prices were to change
dramatically against them, they should be able to realize high rates of return
from their investments and to repay their subloans. For BNT and for agricultural
credit delivery in general, the improvements in BNT's operations and in its loan
recoveries should continue into the indefinite future.
.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.    More important than the specific improvements in incomes or in BNT's
operations from this project is the increased awareness that the Bank's
involvement brought to bear on fundamental issues in agricultural credit. The
lessons learned from the project can be summarized as followst
I/    See comments from National Agricultural Bank, attached, para. 1.



- vii -
(a)   the need to have harmonization of terms and conditions of credit
program. and therefore fungibility of funds;
(b)   the  importance  of having  sufficient  information on  costs  and
revenues of lending to make the case for interest rate levels and
the importance of coordinating recommendations on interest rates for
a specific sector such an agriculture with the overall interest rate
structure; and
(c)   the importance of concentrating responsibility for lending decisions
and supervision of subloans in the agency or bank that bears the
default risk for those eubloens.
These lessons have been used in follow-up work in Tunisia it both the first and
second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans and in the Fourth A'gricultural Credit
Projent, which have made further important progress on these issues.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 18B5-TUN)
I. INTRODUCTION
Backgr2und
1.01        The major objectives of the Government in the agricultural sector
in the early 1980s and as expressed in early preparation of the Sixth Plan
(1982-86) were to balance the commodity trade in agricultural products by
increasing production both for domestic consumption and for exports and to
increase rural employment and incomes. To accomplish these objectives, the
Government was interested in encouraging more intense use of inputs on field
crops, a higher degree of mechanization in on-farm operations, expansion of
the area under tree crops, investment in pure bred cattle to expand the herd
size and increase milk and meat production, and investments in mechanized
poultry houses. The Government also recognized the need to provide dihe
appropriate price incentives, to introduce land reform, and to encourage the
development of agroindustries. The Project was designed to address these
objectives through providing credit farmers and cooperatives for productive
investments.
1.02        Past Bank lending was in keeping with the objectives stressed by
Government. It included rural development and investment in irrigation
infrastructure and provision of credit to farmers. To date Bank Sroup lending
in Tunisia has financed 84 loans and 10 IDA credits amounting to US$2,318.0
million and US$75.2 million, respectively. BAnk group lending for agriculture
in Tunisia started in 1967 and to date 17 projects have been approved for a
total of US$457.9 million of Bank/IDA funds. Performance under these projects
has been mixed, reflecting institutional constraints in the sector.
Implementation of irrigation projects has generally been satisfactory, and
under the first Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL I, Loan ?754-TUN) Government has
taken a number of important policy measures to improve agricultural
performance, including, inter alia, agricultural price and interest rate
reform and encouragement of the private sector in input distribution. Bank
financing of agricultural credit projects is discussed below.
Bank-financed Agricultural Credit
1.03        Including the present project under review, the Bank has financed
four agricultural credit projects for an aggregate amount of US$80 million.
The first two projects in particular were aimed at addressing specific credit



2
needs of farmers, with no explicit pursuit of either sectoral or broad-based
institutional objectives. The First Agricultural Credit Project, approved by
the Board in May 1971, was for a Loan/Credit (Loan 779/Credit 263-TUN) of
US$5.0/3.0 million (respectively), to finance mechanization, dairy farm
development and date palm plantations by large-scale commercial farmers and
semi-private companies. Because of a slower-than-expected demand for 3ank
funcis (discussed below) the Loan/Credit was fully disbursed on July 31, 1978,
thirty four months after the original closing date. The Second Agrtcultural
Ctedit Project (Loan 1340-TUN), approved by the board in Juno 1976 and
supported by a US$12 million Bank loan, was to finance on-farm investments for
small-scale and commercial farms, collective farms and small-scale
agroindustries, mainly olive oil mills. As with the First Agricultural Credlt
Project, disbursements were slower than expected and the Loan was virtually
fully disbursed (US$0.1 million was cancelled at the closing date of Juno.
30,1983) two and half years after the original loan closing date.
1.04        Both of the first two agricultural credit projects suffered from a
number of institutional and poliny constraints that made on-lending Bank funds
by the borrower, the Banque Nationale de Tunisie (B&;) inefficient and
cumbersome. The main problems were: (a) availability of Government funds
(FOSDA) that were passeJ through BNT at concessional terms, at rates lower
than those at which Bank funds were on-lent; this made Bank funds relatively
unattractive to farmers; (b) BNT'.- incentive structure for agricultural
subloans also favored FOSDA func.  as BNT was not responsible (as it was for
the Bank subloans) for the decisions to grant these FOSDA subloans, but was
responsible for recoveries for which it received a commission on the amount of
FOSDA subloans outstanding; in addition, BNT was not responsible for bearing
thv commercial risk of the subloans, as Government assumed 100l of the default
risk, while BNT did bear part of the commercial risk for on-lent Bank funds;
(c) lending to small-scale farms was relatively new, and as credit procedures
were extremely complex, thiu component in particular suffered; (d) BNT's
subloan approval procedures were highly centralized, making access difficult
for many farmers. 1/
II. PROJECT ZQRSUTION
Project Identification. Preparation and Appraisal
2.01        The identification and preparation of the Third Agricultural
Credit Project were carried out by BNT in 1979 with the assistance of Bank
missions supervising the Second Agricultural Credit Project. The project's
agroindustrial component was prepared by the FAO-IBRD cooperative program.
The preparation by BNT included the major components to be financed under the
Project, but did not address the institutional and financial issues that had
been problematic in the first two agricultural credit projects. As a result,
during appraisal, the Bank addressed the issues of (a) the lending interest
rates, which had been just barely positive during the second line of credit;
1/ See comments on this paragraph by the National Agricultural Bank, attached,
para. 2.



3
(b) the need for adequate cost accounting in BhT to analyze the specific costs
of agricultural lending and permit appropriate provisioning and calculation of
spreads; (e) the need to improve BNT's organizational structure to
decentralize decision-making on subloans and to improve the quality of the
appraisal procedure; and (d) the need to improve the supervision and subloan
recovery rates on agricultural subloans.
Prolect Obiectives and Descri2tion
2.02        While the primary objectives of the Project as stated in the
appraisal report were to increase agricultural production and incomes of small
and medium farmers, it also aimed to improve the system of agricultural credit
distribution by strengthening BNT's agricultural credit operations, by
improving the terms under which agricultural loans were made, by improving
loan supervision and recovery practices, and by establishing a credit
extension service in which both BNT and the Ministry of Agriculture would
share responsibilities.
2.03        To dchieve the primary goals of increased agricultural production,
the loan financed a part of BNT's medium and long term agricultural lending
over a three year period (1981-1983). These loans fell into the following
categories (percentage of total Project cost represented by each category is
indicated in parentheses):
(a)   Small and medium size farms (181):  Farms were to qualify
based on pre-investment estimated gross value of production, and the subloans
were to finance livestock, stables, irrigation equipment, treecrops or fodder
crops and small equipment. Larger equipment such as harvesters and transport
equipment could orly be financed if more than one farm were to own the
equipment, so as to ensure full use of it. About 2,250 beneficiaries were
estimated in this category.
(b)   Production Cooperatives (24X):  Subloans were to finance
farm mechanization and transport equipment, livestock, stables, plantations
and irrigation equipment. About 170 cooperatives were expected to benefit
from subloans.
(c)   Service CooDeratives (5S):  These were usually groups of
small farmers grouped together for equipment service, input distribution or
marketing of produce. Subloans were to be made to finance tractors and
implements, harvesters or other large equipment, storage and packaging
facilities. About 25 cooperatives were expected to receive subloans.
(d) Commercial Farmers (33X): For farmers whose annual gross
value of production exceeded a certain limit (US$5,000 equivalent), they would
be eligible for subloans financing livestock, equipment, irrigation equipment,
plantations and other land improvement. The number of beneficiaries was
expected to be about 900.



4
(e)   AgrgindUntries (141):  Subloans were to be made for private
investors for fruit and vegetable processing, cold stores, milk collection and
pasteurization, meat processing and production of animal feed; they were to be
oriented to small-scale unlts (which were not defined). About 20 investors
were expected to receive subloans.
A sixth category of Project costs, comprising about 2.51 of total Project
costs, was to finance salaries of incremental personnel in BNT, in the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA - mainly in regional agricultural centers), and
in the Agricultural Credit Units (ACU) to be created in the regional
agricultural centers (see next para).
2.03        To strengthen the procedures, improve the quality of subloan
appraisal and increase subloan repayment for agricultural credit in Tunisia,
the Project proposed to: (a) strengthen BNT's technical agricultural staff at
headquarters and in branches to improve appraisal and supervision of subloans;
(b) establish ACUs in each of the MOA's Regional Agricultural Development
Commissions (CRDA), which would be responsible for appraisal of subloan
applications from small and medium farmers and for supervision of farmers who
received FOSDA subloans (the ACUs were to have close coordination with BNT
field personnel in all matters related to credit); (c) simplify and
decentralize appraisal of and decision-making on subloans; and (d) improve
field supervision and follow-up on subloan repayments. Training programs were
to be carried out both for BNT's own staff and for the etaff in the ACUs on
lending procedures, appraisal techniques and specific lending programs
available. All of these actions were to be initiated by a joint BNT/MOA study
group, which was to draw up job descriptions, recommend streamlined
procedures, and develop guidelines for the training programs, by June 30,
1981.
2.04        To improve the financial performance for agricultural lending, the
Project sought assurances that a new cost accounting system would be
established in BNT which would allow accurate analysis of actual costs of
lending for agricultural activities; that interest rates on agricultural
subloans would be reviewed at least once a year in order to recommend
appropriate interest rate margins to ensure that the rates were positive in
real terms and that they covered the costs of such lending. Assurances were
also sought that BNT would be reimbursed by Government for losses incurred on
subloans for which BNT did not bear the default risk (which covered 601 of
agricultural subloans of all subborrrowers except commercial farmers and
agroindustry investors), as well as for certain commissions and differences in
lending and borrowing rates on Bank funds.
2.05        Total Project costs were, for the first time in an agricultural
credit project in Tunisia, estimated on the basis of the entire medium and
long term lending program of BNT for agricultural activities. For the three
year period, 1981-1983, the total costs were estimated at US$60.8 million, of
which US$30 million, or 491, were to be financed by the Bank loan, US$13.1, or
221, were to come from the subborrowers, US$5.7 million (91) were from
Government subsia..&s for investments, US$10.8 million (181) were BNT's own



5
funds, and US$1.2 million (2X) were to come from Government in the form of a
long-term loan to BNT to finance long-term investments. The financing
arrangements between the Government and BNT were to be formalized in a legal
agreement between the two parties as a condition of effectiveness.
2.06        BNT was the borrower of the loan.  It was to be implemented and
disbursed over a three year period, with the anticipated closing date of
December 31, 1983.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Effectivenegs and Start-Up
3.01        The loan documents were signed on August 6, 1980, about two months
after Board presentation. Because of a delay in fulfilling the special
condition of effectiveness, the execution of an agreement between the
Government and BNT specifying their mutual obligations under the Project, the
terminal date of effectiveness was postponed three times, to June 30, 1981.
The loan was declared effective on June 24, 1981.
3.02          The start-up of the Project was hindered by pr,blems similar to
those that had plagued the first two lines of credit: competition from more
attractive lines of credit. For the first two years of the Project, loan
approvals by BNT for subloans to be financed under the loan remained much
lower than appraisal estimates and actual Bank loan disbursements ran at about
14X of estimates. One reason given was the appreciation of the US dollar with
respect to the Tunisian dinar (US$1.0 - D .4 at appraisal vs. D .63 at the end
of 1982), and another was the slower than expected BNT sublending in almost
every category.
3.03        Under the Guarantee Agreement (Section 3.10), Government had
undertaken to ensure that all subloans for purposes similar to those under the
Project would be on terms and conditions similar to those under the Project.
In principle, this should have eliminated the competition experienced under
the Second Agricultural Project and improved the pace of BNT's applications
and subloan approvals under the Project.  For small and medium farmers,
however, increased budgetary funds were made available for subloans through
the program FOSDA in 1981, and combined with a decentralized approval process
through the CRDAs, this meant that small and medium farmer applications for
subloans, all of which were processed through the CRDAs, were charn-lled as a
priority towards FOSDA financing. BNT therefore received a small trickle of
applications for these subloans up until around March 1982. After the Bank
expressed concern over this process, MOA instructed CRDAs not to
systematically redirect small farmer applications toward FOSDA. At the same
time, BNT made efforts to decentralize approval to branch offices for these
subloans. These two factors seemed to cause a gradual improvement in 1982 in
the rate of applications and approval for BNT subloans.



6
3.04        Two other categories of subloans also suffered slow implementation
in the beginning of the Project, because of more favorable terms and
conditions for loans from other lines of credit. Commercial farmers were
receiving subsidies for subloans under FOSDA, except for mechanization
subloans, that were not available to them through BNT's (Bank financed)
subloans. This was in direct contradiction to Section 3.10 of the Guarantee
Agreement and after lengthy discussion with the Tunisian Government, the
situation was supposed to be corrected by a law passed in August 1982, and
implemented in 1983, that put an end to such subsidies for commercial farmers.
The implementation of the law was such, however, that most farmers in Tunisia
(more than 95X) continued to qualify for FOSDA subsidies, in default of
Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement. Meanwhile BNT continued to receive
subloan applications for investments for mechanization for commercial farmers,
the category of investments which was excluded from subsidies under FOSDA.
3.05        The second category that was slow to move because of more
favorable terms from other lines of credit was that of the agroindustries.
Under another budgetary program, FOPRODI, investors in agroindustries were
eligible for subsidies, which they were not under BNT financing under this
Project. In addition, BNT was participating in a Bank financed industrial
project (Small-Scale Industry Development Project -- Loan 2038-TUN) under
which the subborrowers were eligible to receive the FOPRODI subsidies. Thus
applications and disbursements under this category for the Agricultural Credit
Project were extremely slow. In late 1982 the Bank approved in principle the
use of FOPRODI subsidies under the Third Agricultural Credit Project.2/
3.06        Other start-up problems included delays in issuing the joint
MOA/BNT study group's findings on strengthening agricultural credit
operations. It was to have been submitted by June 30, 1981, and as of the end
of 1982 it was still not ready. The initial idea was to recommend staffing
and training in credit units (ACUs) to be established in the CRDAs under the
MOA. For various organizational reasons, in particular, in order to develop
BNT's credit and institutional capabilities and phase out MOA's involvement in
credit decisions under FOSDA, the idea of expanding the role of the ACUs was
considered no longer practical, and the Bank recommended that immediate
training efforts be focussed on BNT's own field staff.
IMflementation
3.07        Throughout the original life of the Project (from November 1980,
expected effectiveness, to December 1983, expected closing) the subloan
applications and approvals and therefore disbursements lagged well behind
appraisal forecasts. The problems mentioned above (paras 3.04 and 3.05)
continued to affect the number of applications received and processed by BNT
for Bank financing. At the original closing date, December 31, 1983, actual
disbursements represented only 24% of the full loan amount (see Table 1 in
Annex). In addition, progress was slow on institutional and financial issues,
and a number of covenants relating to these issues were in default throughout
the original life of the Project tsee paras 3.21 and 3.22). As a result, in
order to commit the full amount of the loan, it was necessary to postpone loan
2/ See comment on this paragraph by National Agricultural Bank, attached,
para. 3.



7
closing. The Bank agreed to do this only after seeing some progress on
Government's and BNT's compliance with the major covenants. The loan closing
date was postponed four times, with the final loan closing date fixed at
December 31, 1986, three years after the initial loan closing date.
3.08        By the time the loan closed in December 1986, five and half years
after effectiveness, the following number of subloans had been approved and
disbursed against, as compared to those estimated at appraisal (in the Staff
Appraisal Report - SAR):
Number of subloans
Actual      SAR         Actual
Estimates   as a X of
Estimates
Small and medium size farms             7,947     2,250          353
Production Cooperatives                   172        170         101
Service Cooperatives                       21         25          84
Commercial Farmers                        985        900         109
Agroindustries                             22         20         110
With the exception of the first category of small and medium farms, the close
coincidence of the actual number of subloans to the appraisal estimates
suggests that BNT used discretion in decidiug how many of its subloan
applications to submit for Bank financing under this Project. This in turn
suggests that in addition to BNT'a usual credit approval procedure, there was
the added burden of channeling various applications to the "appropriate" line
of credit. This adds to the paper work involved in making agricultural loans.
This lack of fungibility of funds has been a problem in Tunisia for a number
of years and is commented on further below (para 5.02)./
Project Cgsts
3.09        The costs of investments varied considerably from those estimated
at appraisal, which is to be expected in a credit project, where it is
extremely difficult to predict the demand for specific items over time. The
total cost of the Project was estimated, in Dinar terms, at about D 23.7
million, excluding the category for salaries for incremental personnel (on
which no cost information is available), and the actual cost of the Project
was estimated by BNT at D 45.3 million, for a cost "overrun" of about 91X.
This is due in part to the fact that the subloans were made over a six year
period as opposed to a three year period originally envisaged at appraisal,
and in part to the devaluation of the dinar over the Project period (from
US$1.0 - D 0.4 at appraisal to D 0.84 at the end of the Project). The
devaluation meant that the World Bank loan financed about 86% 4/ of total Project
costs, again excluding salaries of incremental staff, as opposed to slightly
3/ See comment on this paragraph from National Agricultural Bank, attached,
para 4.
4/ The National Agricultural Bank has noted that the Bank financed only 50%
of project costs. See Attachment, para. 5.



8
over 50X foreseen at appraisal. 5/Since the Bank was disbursing at a rate of
751 of loan applications (i.e. of BNTs disbursements), this implies that BNT
was financing something greater than the 70-90X of investment costs as
indicated in the appraisal financing plan, or it is more likely that BNT, in
calculating Project costs, underestimated the total cost of the investments of
its subborrowers. 6/
3.10        The largest categories of cost overruns were subloans for small
and medium farms (at 233% of initial estimates), production cooperatives (at
2551 of initial estimates), and agroindustries (2441). By type of
investments, the cost of livestock, irrigation, and agroindustries investments
financed through BNT subloans exceeded appraisal estimates (by 3171, 4111, and
2441, respectively), while investments in poultry, fodder crops and storage
facilities were much less than appraisal estimates (for details, see source:
Annex 1 to the BNT Project Completion Report, in EMENA files). The popularity
of livestock investments is partly explained by the increase in relative
producer prices for livestock prices during the course of the Project, and the
demand for irrigation equipment was encouraged both by the Government and by
the relative attractiveness of the returns from investment in irrigation.
Institutional and Financial Performance
3.11        At the time of appraisal, the Government, through MOA, and BNT
were to coordinate efforts to establish Agricultural Credit Units, under the
MOA, that were to be staffed to appraise loan applications from small and
medium scale farms, which were in turn to be passed on to BNT for final
approval. A study group was to be established to recommend job descriptions
and training programs for the staff involved (para 2.03); these arrangements
were formalized in covenants in the Loan and Guarantee Agreements.
3.12        While the study group was formed, the various parties never agreed
on a common approach for establishing the ACUs. In the end, BNT made separate
recommendations to the Bank for training for BNT staff, which the Bank
endorsed, and which were eventually carried out. While details are not
available on the effectiveness of the training, it seems in retrospect that
concentrating on training credit staff in BNT for appraising, supervising, and
following up on subloan recoveries is a more practical approach to achieving
effective agricultural credit operations than attempting to dilute
responsibility and hence training for these activities among a Government
agency. This should serve as one of the lessons learned from the Project
(para 5.01).
5/      This was calculated by exchanging each calendar year's loan
disbursements in Dollar terms to Dinar equivalents at the average rate of
exchange for that year; the total Bank disbursements in Dinar terms were then
compared to the total estimated Project cost as presented by BNT in Annexe 1
to their Project Completion Report (EHENA files).
6/ See comment on this paragraph from National Agricultural Bank, attached,
para 5.



9
3.13        BNT made considerable progress in decentralizing its agricultural
credit operations. It opened a number of new rural agencies over the five and
a half year period and decentralized its credit operations through effective
use of computers in the agencies.
3.14        The problem of multiple, competing lines of credit was never fully
resolved, although some progress was made during the course of the Project.
In 1982 a law was passed that eliminated subsidies for commercial farmers, but
the implementing decrees passed a year later, in mid-1983, defined commercial
farmers in such a way that fewer than 5X of the Tunisian farmers fell into
this category. As a result, virtually all of the farmers, including those
that fell into the "commercial farmer" category for the purposes of the Bank
subloans (see para 2.03 (d)), continued to qualify for FOSDA terms anJ
conditions, which involved a substantial subsidy element. This was in default
of Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement (para 3.01). This issue became a
focus of discussion and negotiation for the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 2865-TUN), and is only now being resolved through a gradual
harmonization of all the lines of credit for financing agricultural subloans.
3.15        On the financial performance of BNT, progress was gradually made
in BNT's ability to analyze agricultural operations. A cost accounting system
was established fairly early on (by 1982), and the results sent to the Bank in
1983 and 1984 covering the years 1979 through 1982 showed that BNT had been
losing money on its agricultural operations .7/ According to the Staff
Appraisal Report, these results were to serve as the basis for BNT's requests
to Government to increase interest rates so as to ensure that BNT covered at
least the financial and administrative costs of this credit. While BNT did
not take the initiative to do this (nor was this a legal covenant in the Loan
Agreement), their analysis showed that an increase of about one percentage
point in the lending interest rates would be required to enable BNT to break
even on agricultural operations and about two percentage points would be
required to enable BNT to earn a satisfactory return on its equity earmarked
for agricultural operations. It should be noted that the intention expressed
in the SAR, to have BNT recommend interest rates to the Tunisian authorities
and to have the authorities and BNT management adopt the recommendations, was
not explicitly stated in either the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement.
The Bank opted to postpone insisting on this increase for agricultural lending
rates alone in order to coordinate with other Bank colleagues our dialogue on
the overall interest rate structure in the context of a Financial Sector
Survey (to be discussed in December 1984). In April 1985, Government did
increase agricultural lending rates by 0.75 - 1.5 percentage points, (short
term rates increased from a range of 5.5-8.75X to 6.75-9.5X; medium term from
6.25X to 7X and long term from 10.52 to 122), bringing some number of them to
positive real levels (inflation in 1984 was estimated at 8.42 and in 1985 at
about 7.62), and possibly allowing BNT to break even on these operations.
7/     Although BNT is in overall sound financial condition and has performed
in a financially satisfactory manner -- see financial statements of BNT in
Annex 2.



10
3.16        Loan recoveries was another issue that was to be tackled under the
Project. A side letter to the Loan Agreement specified targets and dates for
loan recoveries, although no measures were specified on how the loan
recoveries were to be improved. For a number of years, until 1985, little
progress was made, and loan recoveries hovered around 60X 'the target had been
852 by May 31, 1982). In 1985, BNT began to invoke the "PrivilUge d'Etat",
which entitled BNT to invoke the services of the Ministry of Finance to
collect unpaid loans, to enlist the cooperation of local officials, and to
launch a publicity campaign on the importance of loan repayments. Loan
recoveries did improve in 1985 to 72X, although the rate of recovery varied
directly with the proportion of default risk borne by BNT (i.e., the lower the
default risk for BNT as in the case of the FOSDA loans, the lower the recovery
rate) and further measures to improve recovery rates were proposed under the
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project.8/
3.17        In conclusion on the institutional and financial performance under
the Project, while overall agricultural delivery continued to experience
problems and a certain amount of confusion in the division of
responsibilities, by the end of the Project BNT had made reasonable progress
in establishing a sound basis for analyzing its agricultural credit
activities, and in improving its recovery record, while the Government had
agreed t> increase lending interest rates and thereby improve BNT's financial
performance on these operations. Progress is still needed in harmonizing
terms and conditions on competing lines of credit and on increasing lending
interest rates to enable BNT, and other banks extending agricultural credit,
co earn a satisfactory rate of return on assets and equity employed.
3.18        From the files, it appears that BNT sent with considerable
regularity and timeliness both quarterly reports and annual reports to the
Bank. There is only one occasion (in the files) on which the Bank
acknowledged receipt of any of these reports by commenting on its contents,
and in retrospect it would seem that requiring only semi-annual or annual
reports would have been sufficient. In addition, and to BNT's credit, in 1984
BNT carried out a survey of its clients who received agricultural subloans in
order to monitor the effectiveness and the impact of the subloans and the
investments, and in 1985 sent its report to the Bank.
3.19        BNT also submitted annual audit reports.  According to the Loan
Agreement (Section 5.02), this was to be done within four months of approval
of the BNT's financial statements by its shareholders. Since the timing of
such approval was not specified in the Loan Agreement, and no mention of such
approval was ever made by BNT at the time they submitted the audit reports, we
cannot know whether submission of the audit reports was done within this
specified four month period.
8/ See comments from National Agricultural Bank, attached, para. 1.



11
3.20        The actual and estimated disbursemer1ts for the Project period,
over time and by category of disbursement, are in Annexes 1 and 2,
respectively.  The original disbursements were scheduled over only three
years, while actual disbursements extended over about six years. While delays
were due to slower than expected credit applications as discussed above (paras
3.02-3.05), the original disbursement schedule corresponded to a three year
commitment period for BNT's subloans (1981-1983) and was in any case
optimistic, as it allowed virtually no lag time between BNT's commitments,
disbursements, requests for reimbursement, and Bank disbursements.  Since this
Project was appraised, the Bank's use of disbursement profiles to guide
estimated disbursement schedules represents an improvement over the method
vied during this Project, of relying on individual missions to make such
estimates, which has in general proved overly optimistic.
|Comoiance with Covenants
3.21        As noted in the previous discussion, the compliance with covenants
was mostly good, with some exceptions in important areas.  BNT did, with only
slight delay, expand its Technical Division and staff it according to the Loan
Agreement (Sections 3.03 (a) and (b)), and also participated in the joint
GOA/BNT study group (Section 3.04(a)). The study group could not, however,
agree on a common approach (para 3.12), and in the end BNT submitted its own
program for training BNT staff, which was acceptable to the Bank. BNT also
complied, again with a slight delay, with the covenants requiring it to
decentralize lending responsibilities (Section 3.05), and on monitoring,
reporting and auditing (Sections 3.08 and 5.02(a) snd side letter on quarterly
reporting). The cost accounting system for lending operations was established
in BNT as required by Section 5.02(b) of the Loan Agreement, and eventually
BNT did an analysis of its income and costs of agricultural lending
operations, as specified in Section 5.09 for 1979 through 1983. In a side
letter, BNT had agreed to increase its subloan recovery rates to certain
target rates by certain dates, and this was not complied with; only in 1985
did BNT begin to take serious measures to increase its recoveries (para 3.16).
3.22        The covenants of the Guarantee Agreement met with somewhat less
success. In particular, Government was to establish staff and to operate four
ACUs on a pilot basis, and then establish one in each CRDA (Sections 3.04
(b)(i) and 3.04 (b)(ii) of the Guarantee Agreement).  As of the end of 1985,
tlhe Government was still establishing the ACUs, and the objective of having
chese ACUs appraise credit applications on behalf of BNT was being questioned
both by BNT and by the Bank. Second, Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement
specified that credit for purposes similar to the Project would be on terms
and conditions similar to those under the Project. This was not complied with
as discussed in para. 3.14 above, and represents the most serious default of
the covenants, as it affected the ability of BNT to make subloans as foreseen
under the Project. Finally, in a side letter to the legal agreements, the
Government had undertaken to ensure that the banking sector, including BNT,
would assume a larger share of the risk of default on budgetary programs for



12
credit, such as FOSDA. At the end of the Prcjject, BNT continued to bear no
rLsk for default on these loans. One important covenant was complied with:
according to the files, the Government did reimburse BNT for losses incurred
on loans for which BNT dld not bear the rlsk, for the difference between the
interest BNT reimbursed the Bank and the intecest recelved on its Bank-
financed subloans, and for a commission of 31 on all subloans outstanding at
the end of the year, as specified in Section 3.08 of the Guarantee Agreement.
IV. PROJECT IMPACT
4.01        The following information is taken from BHT's Project Completion
Report found in EMENA files. The information in that report on lncremental
production, employment, incomes, and on rates of return ls based on surveys
undertaken on farms that benefltted from credit under the Project. The
Project enabled BNT to finance about 9,200 subborrowers, which exceeded
appraisal estimates by a considerable margin, due mainly to the larger than
expected number of small and medlum farms that were financed under the Project
(almost 8,000 versus 2,250 expected at appraisal). The employment creation
also exceeded appraisal estimates, with over 1,800 permanent jobs created
compared to 1,100 estimated at appralsal. The Project generated about three
times thei amount of family labor as estimated would be generated at appraisal.
4.02        Incremental lncomes were also hlgher than expected:  for small and
medium farms, the incremental net lncome was estimated by BNT to average D
2,100 (presumably in 1985 prlces, the year the surveys were done) compared to
about D 1,000 estimated at appraisal (presumably in 1980 prices); for
commercial farmers the increase was about D 10,500 compared to D 2,300
estimated at appraisal.
4.03        Incremental production also exceeded appraisal estimates in most
crops, particularly vegetables, fodder, fruits, red meat and milk; it was
lower than expected for wheat and barley, but then subloans for irrigation
equipment and for livestock investments were more popular than anticipated, so
this incremental Froduction pattern follows from that.
4.04        Rates of return, both financial and economic, for different farm
models, have been calculated by BNT (see Table below, taken from BNT's Project
Completion Report, Chapter VII). According to these results, no investments
were made along the lines of the first model presented in the appraisal
report, representing a small farm's investments in a pump and irrigation
pipes. For the remaining eight models, however, the financial rates of return
(FRR) calculated by BNT show a somewhat smaller range (241 to 62Z) compared to
those in the appraisal (18X to 811), but all are highly satisfactory. The
same is true for the economic rates of return, ranging from 18X to 651 as
calculated by BNT, compared to a range of 181 to 921 in the appraisal report.
A number of FRRs are larger than the corresponding ERRs for a number of the
models, and this is particularly true for the models involving investments in
livestock, bor.h for small and medium farms and for the large commercial



13
farmers, indicating perhaps a higher degree of Government subsidies for this
type of investment than for irrigation equipment or for other farm machinery.
Nodsl                                  FRR Appraisal  FRR   ERR Appraisal  ERR
"o.           Nodal Type               Estimate   Actual    Estimte   Actual
I  Smtl former, pump and irription pipes  64      -         65       -
i             2  Large f armer, forage, stable nd animls  22     62       26       18
3  Smllt frmr, welt timprovement         74       40        92       65
4  Large farmer, pasture nd animats      43       45        48       33
5  Large farmr, tractor replacement      22       41        18       18
6  Smatl tfrmer, pasture and pure bred cows  81   45        69       40
7  Production cooperative, fore and cows  30      27        21       23
8  Service cooperative, frm machinery    21       27        24       38
9  Agroindustry, table olive processing  18       24        43       38
V. CONCLUSIONS AMD LESSONS LZARNED
5.01        In conclusion, it would appear that the Project achieved its
primary objectives of increasing agricultural production and rural incomes of
small and medium size farmers, although it took almost twice as long as
envisaged to do so. On the institutional side, the Project also aimed to
improve BNT's credit operations. In this, the Project had some success as
well, although it too took much longer than anticipated. BNT did strengthen
and decentralize its agricultural lending operations, and introduce cost
accounting and an analysis of the income and costs of agricultural lending
that permitted estimates to be made of lending interest rates required to earn
an acceptable return on equity. On the other hand, the decision to split the
responsibilities for loan appraisal between BNT and MOA was, in retrospect,
misguided, since decisions on lending funds should remain with the agency
financially responsible for recovering the funds. In the end, this split in
responsibility never worked, and BNT quite wisely decided to concentrate its
efforts on training its own staff and strengthening its loan appraisal,
monitoring, and loan recoveries.
5.02        The issue of proliferation of credit programs with di:ferent
lending criteria was also not worked out satisfactorily and, in spite of
having been addressed from the beginning through negotiations with the
Government and through constant reminders throughout the Project, remained a
problem for BNT loan applications and disbursements. It was therefore
addressed at the time of appraisal and negotiations for the Fourth
Agricultural Project. These directed lines of credit, each with different
terms and for slightly different purposes, had proliferated, unnecessarily
complicating BNT's task of credit delivery. The lesson here is that it is not
advisable to participate in financing subloans in agricultural credit projects
when credit programs are allocating ressources regardless of market demand and
are in any way competing, either for administrative attention, or in terms of
the conditions being offered. The Fourth Project souglt assurances that these
various credit programs would be harmonized and future resources made



14
fungible, and has ensured that Government would reduce FOSDA budget
allocations by 15S in 1988 and 1989.
5.03        Finally, on interest rates, the Third Agricultural Project sought
assurances that there would be an annual review of BNT's agricultural lending,
which was to analyze the financial viability of such lending.  This covenant,
which was met only with considerable delay, was not sufficient to ensure
adequate interest rates. The SAR presented the case that BNT was to make
recommendations on interest rates, which were to be adopted by .inancial
authorities in Tunisia and by BNT management (para 6.12). Neither the Loan
Agreement nor the Guarantee Agreement included any such stipulatiln. In the
end, the Bank chose to coordinate its approach to agricultural interest rates
with the overall interest rate structure in the context of the discussion on
the Bank's Financial Sector Survey in Tunisia, which took place only towards
the end of the Project. Thereafter, the Bank tackled the issue in the context
of the first and second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans and of the Fourth
Agricultural Credit Project: Tunisian authorities raised interest rates again
by 0.25X for short-term and 0.5X for medium-term in 1987 (and plan to increase
the rates further in the near future).
5.04        Given the lack of information at the beginning of the Project on
margins necessary to cover financial and administrative costs of agricultural
lending in Tunisia, the general approach used was reasonable. The Bank can be
faulted, however, for not ensuring that the intention under the Project, of
ensuring adequate margins for BNT's agricultural lending through appropriate
interest rates, was explicitly included in the legal documents.



15
Amex L
Table 1
3I~IIA
PROECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD. AGRICULTAL CREDIT PJECT
Schedule of Disbursements: Actual vs. A2Dtaisal
IBRD                                                                Actual as
Fist.al                                    Actual    Appraisal   X of Appraisal
Year                 Quarter                Total      Estimate      Estimate
--- US$ million-----          ()
1981               3rd                         -            2.0        0
4th                         -            4.0        0
1st                        0.85          6.2       14
2nd                        0.92          8.5       11
3rd                        1.41         10.9       13
4th                        1.74         13.3       13
1983              s1t                         2.3          15.9       14
2nd                        3.1          18.6       16
3rd                        4.5          21.5       21
4th                        5.6          24.5       23
1984               1st                        5.9          27.6       21
2nd                        7.2          30.0       24
3rd                        9.3           -         31
4th                       10.0           -         33
'   1985           1st                       12.4           -         41
2nd                       14.1           -         47
3rd                       17.4           -         58
4th                       19.9           -         66
986~              1st                       20.3           -         67
2nd                       21.9           -         73
3rd                       24.0           -         80
4th                       26.1                     87
.JI2Al st                                   27.5                     91
2nd                       29.5           -         98
3rd                       30.0           -        100
4th



COIIPtISO  IETEEIN APPtAISAL AND ACUK DISSUSENENTS BY CATEGVY OF DISSWSENENT
(USS 000)
Category                  SWR     X of Total by Categry       ActUMl          of Total by Category        Aetuat as X of Apaisal
1. Sbtomns to
ll and MMdium Farmrs
Form EquiJent                       370                5                 370                   5                             100
Livestock rd Sheds                 3,960              40                 666                   9                              23
Shallt, Well Irrigation            2,960              40               6,142                  82                             208
Tro Crops                        1i10                 15 is31h                                 4                              28
SUTOTAL                       7,400             100                7,491                100
2. Sblow  to
Production Cooperatives
Tractors and Farm  ahinery         5,796              60                3,8814                41                              67
Livestock ad Sheds                 1.932              20               3,767                  39                             195
Wells wd  Irrigation               1.256              13                1,642                 17                             130
Trme Crops                          676                7                 290                   3                              43
SU6TWTAL                      9.660             100               9,580                 100
3. "lown to
Service Cooceratives
Tractors and Farm Iachinery        1,070                               1,071                                                 100
4. Sblom to
Cfg Clal Frens
Tractors and Frm  achinery        5.28                 81              4,070                  62                              77
Livestock  d Sheds                  391                 6              1,108                  1?                             283
Aviculture                          391                 6                261                   4                              67
Wells and Irrigation                 195                3                652                  10                             334
Tree Crops                          2                   4                                     8                              199
SUSTOTAL                      6,520              100              6,550                 100
5. S"tloans for
Agroindustrial Production
Civil Works                        1,766               33              3,16e"                60                              179                  ,.
Equiamnt                          3.584                67                40                   40                              60                    ,
SIDTOTAL                      5,350              100              6,550                  100
.0 30.i00  by Wl0a
a/ Estimated by Wortd Bn.



17
Annex 2
Tagle I
TNIUD AGRICULTVUAL CREDIT PRO'ECT
a!T FinanciaL Position
I__ Su _ rv oe Balance Sheets 1961-1985 /a/b
As of December 3t
1981     l982     .983      :;94      .;Ss
ASSETS
Cash and lanks                       '3,269    7,939   16,347   l9,304   L1,996
Bills Discounted                     85,312   94,682  112,959  110.980  IL6,201
Short-Term Loans & Advances          69,392  107.309  L17,l4L   L58,493  181,046
Term Loans                           87.835  104.234  12t.212  1L4.6    174.615
Subtocal .Normal Risk Assets      262,539  306,225  357,582  415,086  477,862
Other Colloctible                     4.880    2,691    3,701    4,314    4,736
Governmenc Bonds & Securities        46,646   53,470   62.153   74,233   94,031
Equity Participations                 8,234    9,561   10,639   11,164   13,188
Other Assets                        211,585  182.667  197,653  248,645  236,335
Net Fixed Assets                      4.452    4,597    5.852    7.291    7.93
TOTAL ASSETS                      471,605  567,150  653,927  780,037  866,086
.n-s-.  suUU   m.am_ma  Susum u
LIABILITIES
Demand Deposits                     185,436  223,9V'  279,667  319,075  359,319
Tors Deposits                        54,436   48,506  '4,235   58,858   71,973
Banks and Correspondencs             12,693   10,358   12,945   10,154   16,840
Other Creditors                       6.104   JO _       7.772    7.967   10.694
SubtotaL                          258,669  290,01 T  348,619  396,054  658,826
Specal Funds
FOSDA                              42,307   48,423   57,870   61,006   68,575
FOSEP                              12,307   14,239   14,029   I7,447   19,613
IBID-IDA                           12,584   14,871  11,842   25,003   28,101
Other                              22.664   24133    5.43l   42.42'   47.684
Subtotal                           89,862  102,062  19,172  145,877  163,973
Provisionm  for  ad  Debts            9,924   12,790   17,538   23,078   30,270
Other Liabilities                    87.36       ,     138.468  182.121   t27.062
TOTAL LAStLITtSU                  445,801  539,353  623,797  747,130  830,13t
KOUITY
capital                              12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000
Reserves                             I13.84   15.97   18.129   20.90J   23.954
SubtotaL Equity                    25,804   27,797   30,129   32,908   35,954
TOTAL LIABILITIES A.N0D EQUITY    471,605  567,150  653,927  780,037  866,086
uuau   *      _UU   inuuu   uauuu    *--uu
Off-BaLance Sheet
Guarantees & Acceptances            235,567  241.,471  343,676  301,247  350,219
ColLectionan Behalf of COS            3,001    2,969    9,709    7,938   16,996
1*    *s.u44 ........ _                                             -... ... ..... ............



18
Annex 2
Ta b-le 2
7L;N!S rA
:H:R: AGRtCCLT1.RAL :RED:: PRC:v'"
BNT Financial Post: on
2. rnc me Statements, 8Ld;-45 /a
(D '000)
As of Oeceneer  1
:N'COME
'nterest rncome /b
on Loans                              a      n. nO.798    !4,,33   ^, )t3
on Ceposits                         n.a.    n.a.      14,425   19,606   e,;.9
Other                               n.a.    n.a.       1 566     L .543    1,,
Subtotal                        22,351   29,559    6,J 4779   "        -j,35j
Other income                         6,657    6,907    8,00'3    9,379   '2,392
TOTAL tNCOME                    29,008   36,466   44,781   35,261   68,748
.san..   *Uman=   SWWs.a  u    surn    assumea
EXPENSES
interest Expenses /b
on Deposits                         n a       n a      9,124   111521   14,913
on Borrowing                        n a       n a      8,71l    13,938   L8,690
Other                               n a       na       1         1_766   _26L
Subtotal                        12,699   17,024   19,210  .2X,22S   36,218
Personnel                            5,871    7,200    8,764    9,447   10,148
:epreciation                           450       548       591        718    1,024
Other Operating Expenses             2,006    2,395    3,166    3,646    3,957
Reserves for Bad Debts Ic            2.733    2,866    4,48    6,368          t.51.4
,07AL EXPENSES                  23,759   30,033   36,479   47.404   59.861
uusual  massume   mwss=   assau     sasauna
?RE-TAX tNCCM¶E                      54_9    6c433    8.302        735 8    9.887
.ncome Taxes                        2,877    3,6i9    4,900    4,047    4,694
NET INCOME                           2.372    I.L:i    3^*02    3.311    4. I3
Available for Allocation /d          2,412    2,809    3,448    3,878         ',234
ALLOCATION
Legal Reserve                          119       139       170         26       -
Extraordinary aeserve                  500    1,270         -         750      750
Social  AssistaCce Fund                250       271       275        320      350
Director's rees                          25        it       25         25       25
Dividends                              540       700    :.035    1,080    l,080
,Tax-Free Reserve Reinvestment          943       373    ',3;6      1,636    '.,946
Balance Carried Forward                  35       46        67         42       83
/a Audited
/b  Breakdown not available for 1981 and 1982
/c  Essentially not deductible from taxable income
/d  Discrepancies with not income due to previous year adjustments



19                                Attachment
COMMENTS FROM NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL BANK
Tunis, May 24, 1991
Mr. Graham Donaldson,
OED,
World Bank
Reference: Your letter of April 15, 1991
Subject:    Project completion report on the Third Agricultural Credit
Project, Loan 1885-TUN
Dear Sir:
With regard to your above-mentioned letter, we would inform you
that we have only the following few comments on the report on the Third
Agricultural Credit Project:
1.          Page v. of the summary and paragraph 3.16
The rate of subloan recovery cannot vary in direct proportion to
the risk of default carried by BNT. If the recovery situation is ARnalyzed,
the important points to be borne in mind can be summarized as follows:
-     recovery rates were highest for short-term loans for cereals
because an effective recovery procedure exists, namely,
withholding at the time of marketing, and because these are loans
of a repetitive nature, which encourages the farmers to repay
them;
-     the recovery rate varies widely for loans in respect of which BNT
carries equal risks, as a function of the purpose of the loan, the
level of decisionmaking and the farmer advisory structures
(supervised projects).
2.          Page 2 of the introduction -- paragraph 1.04
Neither BNT's structures nor its lending policy favor IOSDA funds;
rather, the factors governing the choice of funds are local administrative
structures and the farmers themselves.



20
Furthermore, it is not BNT's subloan approval procedures that
complicate access for small farmers. The procedures were in fact
decentralized and access to credit is linked more to factors such as risks and
guarantees.
3.          Pate 6 -R oaragraph 3.05
FOPRODI was also managed by BNT; the benefit it provided to
borrowers in fact took the form of reimbursable grants to complement their own
funds, an advantage for which no provision was made in the loan agreements
[for TUN-1885]. To our knowledge, there has been no change on this point.
4.          Page 8 -- RaragraRh 3.08
The fact that the number of projects financed coincides closely
with the estimates for most of the project components is the result either of
pure chance or of a very accurate initial appraisal. None of the subsequent
commentary bears any relation to the facts.
5.          Page 8 -- DaragraDh 3.09
We are not very clear as to the meaning of this paragraph and the
analysis it contains. In chapter IV, para. 3 of our project completion report
we clearly noted that there was a cost overrun of 86Z stemming essentially
from fluctuations in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the Tunisian
dinar.
Of a global cost of US$60 million, the Bank financed only
US$30 million, i.e., 50X, not 86X.
Yours, etc.
/s/ Mokhtar Atallah
Assistant Director General



8~~~~~~~~9 le Os                                                                                        110 
BIZERTE
-37.                                                                           5^ ^;A,'° El Haouaria                                                                           37-0
maflLl .,         -  Menzel Temime
<~~~~~~~~~~~~i Dtrah a:dTao) EJKit AHUN 44Hmae
JENOOU/A EL    *,BBeni Khiar
~  Ghard~ffra~u  <'f~boursouk                                                              S ~  AEUL
P't"          -                                ~     El:Fah                Nmae
S S \     .2/  9   '-9iL;t@%,/t                   NVT62 E~~~~~ur nntidha
|                           f~~~~~~~~~Youssefy    g         t        ;/                        ;ih                                                                   6- 
-360                                                                                                                                                                          3
~~ Tebe~~ TajeroL me                                                   Kebira *bikh  Hammam-Sousse
|Y ~~~To Tebess"  Taero        n s      ouro         j                            atar                ebi       SOUSSE_
iOueslatia                     '              ,      MONASTIR
Es S m    ohia ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                        Tbourba
i~                    ~            ~~~a hsb              KAAIROU                Mnai                      lonn
To Tetessa tXThalan     Sbibao    '             :      <                                                    MAHxMA DIA
()  A             N t  /                                         C',out   Boy.Hajlan     E 7   ZHKsour-Essaf
0~~~~~~~~~~
t  < > ;)\\%_ gX a 7 7-    /  <         ~~~~Nasr Allah    I^pbae   SoaS            Jem
\%<\7~                                                                                        0 s ., ,.> Chebba
-j
350                                  i                                             SIDI BOU ZID.                                           Jebeniana
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<             i        1 Se~~~~~~~Friana                                  0   Rege       ChMnzl°
4[  io  \   /*Y          ;/                                -                         SFAXEl   zzo  
t  r  f >S - X: /=3n=ssr                                                                                                               0         25         50        75  
Tamaqhza                                     El Guettar_                                                                ._KILOMETER5
Echet§ik.                                                                         fM MDhla</ Skhira
Tn, Z Z                                                                           M6tMotlaou
-24°   i       ~~ ~~TOZEUue                                     \\ eoi                                                               Houmet
NeftaBtS                                                                                                                  Essouk
Tro
a ^   zoua   zft          /                               G 4 5 § <            \             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jorf 
Ou/ rg                                                                                              Maretf.
\   /                         'v'5E-;¢                                          fMatmata         \ 3                         "4 E    Zarzis
> pDouz              .                 \  Matmata
!  °El Faouar                           -ME-ENIN
&-*  Bni
Kh6d6che
'7-dhoumrasseno'                                                       330
T U N I S I A                                                                 TATAQUINE                                (
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
*     BNT Agencies
*     BNT Agencies, non-agricultural
Main Roads                                                                                                                >
--   Secondary Roads
------ FtRailroads
Rivers
.-   Ports                                                                     Remada
Salt Lakes                                                                                                          ...
+     International Airports
rutc w o~~~~~~~~ Cities and Towns ). , "5
-f ___                             0     Governorate Capitals                                                               3              A                              _
z  ~~~_  @ National Capital                                                                     A L G E R I A    i     I B Y A
A  d, llN.. - 1                                Governorate Boundaries3
International Boundaries
_ o _ _ - f- -*..



