Document of              FILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-2846-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 6, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Currency Unit                                            Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is floating. The rate
used in the staff appraisal report, which approximates the current rate, is;
US$ 1    -  TD 0.4
TD  1    -  US$2.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kmk)       -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)   -  0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)          -  2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)         -  2.20 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)    -  2,205 pounds (lbs)
Fiscal Year                                        January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
ACU           Agricultural Credit Units
BDET          Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (Economic
Development Bank)
BNT           Banque Nationale de Tunisie (National Bank of Tunisia)
CLCM          Caisse Locale de Credit Mutuel (Mutual Credit Bank)
CRDA          Commissariat Regional du Developpement Agricole (Regional
Agricultural Development Commission)
FOSDA         Fonds Special de Developpement Agricole (Special Fund for
Agricultural Development)
FOSEP         Fonds Special d'Encouragement a la Pgche (Special Fund for
the Encouragement of Fishery Investments)
KFW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
PPAR          Project Performance Audit Report
SCM           Societe de Caution Mutuelle (Mutual Guaranty  Association)
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
SONAMO        Societg Nationale de Motoculture (National Company Providing
Tractor and Harvesting Services)
USAID         US Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT)
Guarantor:           Republic of Tunisia
Amount:              US $30 million equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms:               14 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 8.25 percent per annum. Guarantor would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Relending            The Borrower would on-lend proceeds of the loan through
Terms:             medium and long-term sub-loans for farm development, as
follows: (i) small farmers ($5.3 million), production
cooperatives ($7.6 million) and service cooperatives
($2.0 million) at an interest rate of six percent; (ii)
commercial farmers ($11.7 million) at an interest rate of
seven percent; and (iii) agro-industries ($3.4 million) at
an interest rate of eight percent. Repayment periods for
sub-loans vary in accordance with the type of investment,
from 3 to 15 years with grace periods from 1 to 8 years.
Project              The proposed project would finance part of BNT's
Description:       agricultural three-year lending program for medium and
long-term credit to small and medium farmers, production
and service cooperatives, commercial farmers, and agro-
industries. It would also provide for the strengthening
of BNT's and the Ministry of Agriculture's credit exten-
sion program.
Benefits             The proposed project would improve the organization and
and Risks:         effectiveness of BNT's agricultural lending operations.
The incomes of the direct credit beneficiaries, about
2,250 small and medium farmers, 900 large farmers, the
members of 170 production cooperatives and 25 service
cooperatives would be substantially increased. This would
affect about 11,800 farm families totalling 70,000 members
of whom 43 percent, or 30,000, are expected to come from
the target group. About 1,100 permanent jobs, 900 seasonal
jobs and 1,200 man-years of additional family labor would
be generated from investments in farm development. This
employment generation would affect another 12,000 people
in farm families, of whom about 11,000 are expected to
come from the target group. The main risks involved in
the project would be adverse climatic conditions which
would affect crop yields, thereby reduce incomes and
increase default incidences, and failure to strengthen
the credit extension program. In view of Government's
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofimcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
high priority for agriculture, it is expected that
strengthening of the credit extension service would take
place as envisaged.
Estimated Costs:                                          Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ Million-------
Small and Medium Farmers                             6.7        4.3       11.0
Production Cooperatives                              5.8        6.2       12.0
Service Cooperatives                                 1.1        1.6        2.7
Commercial Farmers                                   7.5        9.5       17.0
Agro-industries                                      4.3        2.8        7.1
Incremental Personnel Cost                           1.2         -         1.2
Total Base Cost                                26.6       24.4       51.0
Physical Contingencies                               0.4        0.4        0.8
Price Contingencies                                  3.8        5.2        9.0
Total Project Cost                             30.8 1/   30.0        60.8
Financing Plan:                                           Local    Foreign    Total
-…---- …T…$ Millio …------
IBRD                                                        -        30.0       30.0
BNT                                                       10.8         -        10.8
Government                                                 6.9         -         6.9
of which:  Loan                                        (1.2)                (1.2)
Subsidy                                   (5.7)                 (5.7)
Farmers' Contribution                                     13.1         -        13.1
Total                                               30.8       30.0       60.8
Estimated                               Bank FY    1981    1982    1983    1984
DTisEurisement:                                    --------US $ Million--------
Annual                                          4.1      9.2    11.2      5.5
Cumulative                                      4.1    13.3    24.5    30.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         Between 18 percent and 92 percent, according to type of
farm investment and agro-industry.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No 2934-TUN, dated May 27, 1980
1/ Including $9.5 million of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT)
with the guarantee of the Republic of Tunisia, to help finance the foreign
exchange cost of a Third Agricultural Credit Project. The loan would have a
term of 14 years, including 4 years of grace, with an interest rate of 8.25
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Tunisia in June 1978. Its report
entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was
issued on November 16, 1978. This part reflects its findings and those of an
updating mission which visited Tunisia in July 1979. Country Data sheets are
attached in Annex I.
3.        Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with agricultural resources.  Much
of the country is arid or semiarid. Agricultural activity is concentrated
along the coast in the North but continues to play an important role in
Tunisia's economic structure. The main crops are wheat and olives. These
crops are subject to sharp annual output fluctuations because of irregular
rainfall in the case of wheat and a natural production cycle for olives.
Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates and petroleum. The
large phosphate deposits are of low quality. Known oil reserves are rela-
tively small. Industrial development, although rapid, has been hampered by
shortages of industrial entrepreneurs, the small domestic market and difficul-
ties in marketing Tunisian products abroad. The most important sector is
services; during 1970-78 it generated about half of GDP, a quarter of that
sector's contribution consisting of government services. Tourism has developed
rapidly during the 1970s. Workers' remittances have become a significant item
in the balance of payments, generating about 12 percent of current account
receipts during 1970-78.
4.        Tunisia's economy has performed remarkably well during 1970-78.
Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 8.1 percent, nearly twice as fast
as during the 1960s. Per capita GNP in 1978 reached $998, which in real terms
is some 67 percent above its level of 1969. Tunisia was one of the few
countries in the world whose per capita GNP during 1970-76 increased at an
average annual rate of 6 percent or more.
1/   Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report No.
P-2778-TUN of April 18, 1980 for a Fourth Highway Project.



- 2 -
5.        This performance was partly attributable to improved economic man-
agement, and partly to fortuitous factors. In 1969, Tunisia changed its
inward-oriented investment strategy dominated by state activities. The new
policy orientations, announced during the 1970s, resulted in a change towards
a more open and export-oriented economy in which private initiative could play
an increasing role. A number of decontrol measures were introduced, albeit
slowly. Overall, the new policy orientation proved beneficial for the country.
In addition, the economy benefited from favorable weather conditions resulting
in good agricultural crops while the change in world market prices during
1973/74 brought sizeable windfalls as the terms of trade improved sharply.
This allowed domestic savings to increase to 21 percent of GDP during 1970-78,
compared with 15 percent during the 1960s.  Tunisia's dependence on external
financing declined from about 32 percent of investment in 1969 to 29 percent
in 1978; the share was as low as 15 percent during 1973-76, when gains from
the terms of trade were at their peak.  The balance of payments had been in
continuous overall surplus since 1967.  But after 1975, this was no longer the
case as the terms of trade began to deteriorate while imports continued to
increase rapidly.  In 1978 there was another turnaround and reserves increased
in the wake of heavy capital inflows. However, Tunisia's debt service payments
in relation to exports of goods and non-factor services (debt service ratio)
in 1978 were still a low 10.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970.
6.        Rapid economic growth allowed Tunisia to make considerable social
gains during the 1970s. By 1976, primary school enrollment had reached 100
percent and secondary enrollment 20 percent of the relevant age groups. Educa-
tion is free through university. Public health services have been expanded,
with many services provided free. A family planning program has been intro-
duced and since 1973 has met with substantial success. The birth rate declined
from 43.8 per thousand in 1966 to 32.0 per thousand in 1978 while the rate of
natural population growth declined from 3.0 to 2.6 percent in the same period.
Attempts have been made to reduce regional imbalances and to improve the lot
of the poor. The share of the population living in absolute poverty declined
from 30 percent in 1966 to 18 percent in 1975. However, important disparities
remain between income levels among individuals and regions. In coping with the
social aspects of development, Tunisia is confronted with strongly increased
aspirations of its population in the face of limited natural and financial
resources.
7.        The most important problem for the Tunisian economy is widespread
open and hidden unemployment. In 1978, about 13 percent of the labor force--
some 231,000 people--were unemployed, and the unemployment rate is rising.
In addition, there is considerable hidden unemployment in agriculture which
provided 39 percent of employment in 1978. If one considers that about
40 percent of this labor force does not have full-time jobs, the effective
overall unemployment rate is more like 25 percent. An increasing number of
young people born during the high birth rate years are reaching working age
and a growing number of women are joining the labor force. About half of the
registered unemployed are young people seeking their first employment. These
are mostly relatively educated people whose job aspirations cannot be met.
8.        During 1970-78, agriculture provided more than 40 percent of total
employment, 25 percent of merchandise exports and 17 percent of GDP. Food
processing accounted for another 4 percent of GDP and comprised 35 percent



- 3 -
of value added in manufacturing. Agricultural production rose substantially,
largely as a result of favorable weather. Current policy, which emphasizes
projects that make a rapid and direct contribution to production, recognizes
various constraints on agricultural development: insecurity of land tenure;
inadequate access to agricultural credit; inadequate extension services;
insufficient agricultural education; and underutilization of irrcgation
investments. Under the Fourth Plan (1973-76) about $140 million was allocated
to a rural development fund executed by the provincial administrations. These
rural development efforts are being continued under the current Plan (1977-81).
9.        During the 1960s, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased by 8
percent annually. This growth rate accelerated during 1970-78 to 10 percent
annually, due partly to record years for the olive oil processing industry and
to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries. The early
thrust of industrialization came from large import substitution projects.
These suffered, however, from the small domestic market and shortages of
experienced staff and management. Since 1970, more emphasis has been put on
export-oriented private industries, particularly in food processing, textiles
and mechanical and electrical industries. Foreign and domestic private invest-
ment is now stimulated by a comprehensive incentive framework and facilitated
by streamlined approval procedures of the investment promotion agency. Apart
from finance, foreign investors are expected to contribute know-how and over-
seas marketing capability. Although an agreement between Tunisia and the
European Economic Community signed in April 1976 provided for duty free entry
into the Community of nearly all Tunisian industrial products, import restric-
tions on some of them were imposed in 1977 and 1978. The Government has estab-
lished a special fund to encourage growth of small industries and industrial
decentralization, and it has started a program to establish industrial estates.
10.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.  Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached 1.1 million in 1978, with an average annual rate
of growth during 1970-1978 of 13 percent -- sharply higher than that of the
Mediterranean tourism market as a whole. Since 1970, tourism has become a
major source of foreign exchange earnings, reaching $412 million in 1978; this
was slightly more than earnings from all manufacturing exports and was exceeded
only by petroleum exports. The rapid development of tourism in Tunisia has
created new demands on infrastructure (particularly recreational facilities),
trained manpower, and related services, which have been met only partly. The
Government is endeavoring to alleviate these constraints through a variety
of measures including revised investment incentives, increased marketing and
training efforts, codes to enforce quality standards, more stringent zoning
laws, and development of recreational facilities.
11.       The main objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1977-81) are:
(i) full employment of the additions to the labor force; (ii) self-sufficiency
in major foodstuffs (defined as a balanced trade account for agricultural
goods); (iii) increases in the standard of living; and (iv) social stability
through incomes policies and wage and price harmonization. The Plan foresees
an average annual rate of real GDP growth of 7.3 percent. This is somewhat



- 4 -
below the 9.2 percent achieved during 1970-76, mainly because the fortuitous
factors prevalent during the early 1970s were not expected to continue.
Investment is projected at TD 4.2 billion ($9.8 billion) in current prices
during the Plan. In real terms, average annual investment would be 54 percent
greater during 1977-81 than during the preceding Plan. Nonetheless, the
targeted average annual rate of growth of real investment during the Fifth
Plan is only 4.1 percent, as this rate is influenced by the very high invest-
ment level achieved in the base year, 1976.
12.       The Fifth Plan's strategy emphasizes in particular export-oriented
industrial development and agricultural growth. Special attention is given to
employment creation and to balance of payments considerations. Substantial
investments are to be made in hydrocarbons, manufacturing, water development,
transport and housing. The Plan prescribes increased domestic production and
processing of Tunisia's mineral resources (phosphates, petroleum) to raise the
value-added component of exports as much as possible. Private sector initia-
tive is expected to dominate investment in textiles, mechanical and electrical
industries, and tourism. It is in these activities that the authorities
expect most employment creation to take place. Employability of the labor
force is to be increased through education and training programs. Efforts
towards regional development are to be pursued through establishing regional
planning structures, strengthening regional administration and developing
incentives for the decentralization of productive activities. The strategy
proposed for the Fifth Plan does not represent any major departure from the
strategy pursued successfully during the preceding Plan.
13.       Tunisia's existing resource base, its institutional and infrastruc-
tural framework, its good performance in the earlier part of this decade, and
the desire of the authorities to support further development with appropriate
policy measures and institutions are fundamental factors pointing towards
continuing rapid economic growth during the Fifth Plan. The 7.3 percent
growth target is in line with the possibilities of the economy, although
actual performance may fall somewhat short of this target in the wake of the
recent slowdown of the international economy. The investment priorities
formulated in the Plan are considered necessary to support the sectoral
strategies. There are, however, some less favorable signs. Tunisia will have
to rely increasingly on its own resources since the fortuitous circumstances
of the early 1970's are unlikely to be repeated.    As the resource base is
relatively narrow, available resources need to be more efficiently deployed.
Achieving the Plan targets presupposes the timely introduction and successful
execution of measures to: (i) strengthen the absorptive capacity for invest-
ment, especially for labor intensive projects; (ii) promote exports; (iii)
base economic management on an efficient price and incentive system and
improve productivity; and (iv) mobilize the resources needed to realize the
comprehensive social development targets while maintaining domestic and
external financial stability. The Tunisian authorities have begun to intro-
duce measures in these respects. To increase the absorptive capacity for
investment, institutions like the Investment Promotion Agency and the National
Center for Industrial Studies were strengthened. The activities of the Export
Promotion Center were widened to include investigations on non-traditional
markets, especially in the Middle East and Japan.



- 5 -
14.       Substantial efforts in domestic and external resource mobilization
will be of crucial importance to finance the planned level of investment. On
the domestic side, there is a need for increased savings and improved finan-
cial intermediation. The Government sector, in particular, will again be
called upon to contribute substantially to the savings effort. The Plan sug-
gests that this should be done by prudent expenditure policies and increased
revenue collections (selective tax increases and better tax collection).
Measures to this end have been taken by curtailing the growth of budgetary
expenditures, increasing taxes on real estate and luxury consumer goods and
making payment of taxes a pre-condition for obtaining administrative licences
of all kinds. In addition, the public enterprise sector will have to increase
substantially its contribution to public savings through better management
and especially through cost-related increases in the sale prices of selected
enterprises. Steps in this direction have been initiated through tariff
raises on water, power and port services. Externally, Tunisia would have
total financing requirements (disbursement basis) of some $3.1 billion during
the Fifth Plan, of which $1.3 billion have already been obtained during
1977-78. Given the country's creditworthiness, Tunisia should be able to
mobilize the remaining $1.8 billion of such financing without straining the
country's debt servicing capacity (para. 16).
15.       Since the early 1960s, Tunisia has obtained large amounts of offi-
cial aid. A Consultative Group chaired by the Bank provided a forum for aid-
coordination among major donors in the past. During 1970-78, annual loan
commitments from public sources averaged $395 million, or about $71 per
capita. About 50 percent of these commitments came from bilateral public
sources, chiefly from France, Canada, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
About 15 percent of the bilateral aid came from oil-producing countries, whose
share increased rapidly from 8 percent in 1970 to 29 percent in 1978. Commit-
ments from the Bank Group during 1970-78 accounted for 20 percent of total
public commitments. Most aid has been obtained on relatively soft terms; in
1978 the average terms of borrowing were 5.4 percent interest and 20 years
maturity, including 5 years of grace. During 1970-78, Tunisia also received
annually some $40 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources
averaged $125 million a year. While direct foreign private investment has
been comparatively small, it has gained momentum since 1974 following incre-
ased activity in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Net direct foreign investment increased from $19
million in 1969 to $96 million in 1978, with most of it going to the petroleum
sector.
16.       At the end of 1978, total foreign debt (disbursed and outstanding)
was estimated at about $2.4 billion, or 41 percent of GDP. The debt service
ratio in 1978 was 10.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970. This sig-
nificant decline in the debt service ratio was mainly due to the sharp increase
in export earnings following the changes in world market prices in 1973/74.
External borrowing at the rate projected for 1977-81 (para. 14) would increase
debt service obligations to around 14 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services by 1981 and 15 percent by 1986, according to current Bank
projections. At these levels, the debt service burden would be manageable,
particularly when seen in the light of Tunisia's long record of prudent and



- 6 -
skillful balance of payments and external debt management. Tunisia is there-
fore considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
17.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of thirty-nine loans and
eleven credits amounting respectively to $672.6 million and $70.1 million,
net of cancellations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects. While disbursements of some loans and credits
have been slower than foreseen at appraisal, on the whole project execution
has been satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved and autonomous agencies have been created or
strengthened.
18.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Govern-
ment efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth
and distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote
export-oriented policies and investments, and (d) provide selective support
for the development of infrastructure and for institution building in key
public services. The main feature of this strategy is to support the
Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects,
with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is also cooperating with the
Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic and
foreign resources, in part through encouraging project cofinancing; the
latter is particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's external
resource needs, the large size of many priority projects and the limited
availability of Bank resources relative to the country's needs.
19.       Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and public
transport project has accounted for 28 percent of Bank/IDA commitments
in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastruc-
ture has accounted for 36 percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received
20 percent of total commitments. Industrial and hotel financing, through the
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), has accounted for 12
percent, and the Gafsa phosphate development project for 4 percent.
20.       Projects in various stages of processing include those for natural
gas distribution (to be submitted to the Board in June 1980), agricultural
development in the Northwest, irrigation, population and health, vocational
training and development of small-scale, textile, and electrical and mechanical
industries. They also include further support for power development and for
rural roads.



- 7 -
21.       The Bank Group accounted for about 13 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-78. The Bank Group's share of total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1978 (including loans from private
sources) was 11 percent and of debt service during 1978 was 14 percent. The
Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt by 1986 is expected
to remain unchanged at about 11 percent, and its share in debt service would
decline to about 12 percent.
22.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce aluminium
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled $14.5
million, as of March 31, 1980.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agricultural Development, Objectives and Policies
23.       In 1978, agriculture provided about 35 percent of total employment,
about 18 percent of GDP, and some 17 percent of total exports. While still
playing an important role in Tunisia's economy, this represents a relative
decline over the last ten years due to rapid growth in other sectors and to
poor weather. Land suitable for agriculture amounts to 9 million ha., of
which 4.5 million ha. is cultivated and the remainder is rangeland suitable
for extensive sheep-grazing or covered by forests and esparto grass. In
Central and Southern Tunisia, where the average rainfall is less than 350 mm,
rainfed agriculture combines tree crops (mainly olives and almonds), marginal
cereal production and sheep grazing with dates and vegetable crops cultivated
in the oases. Rainfed crops (primarily wheat and barley) are grown in
Northern Tunisia which has an average rainfall exceeding 350 mm. Lack of
water is the major constraint to wider and more intensive production. The
estimated potential for irrigation is about 235,000 ha. of which about 50
percent is currently utilized. In 1978, the irrigated areas produced about
20 percent of the total agricultural production in value on only about 3
percent of the cultivated land. The main products in the irrigated areas are
vegetables, tree crops, forage and sugar beets.
24.       A primary objective of the Fifth Plan (1977-1981) is to achieve
self-sufficiency in food (defined as a balanced commodity trade in agricultural
products) by 1981, which would imply an average annual increase of 6.5 percent
in production at constant prices. The results of the first two years of the
current Plan show that the investment program has been largely implemented on
time with only some minor delays affecting investments in tree crops, fisheries
and irrigation. However, it is unlikely that the ambitious growth rates
projected for agricultural production (especially for sugar beets and wheat)
would be achieved. Poor weather conditions in 1977 and 1978 resulted in a
significant drop in cereal production, thus causing a decline in real terms of



- 8 -
exports despite sizeable investments in irrigation, machinery and equipment,
and a sharp increase in food imports. In the previous plan period (1973-76)
agricultural exports (mainly olive oil, fresh fruit, vegetables, processed
agricultural products, fish and wine) nearly equalled food imports (cereals,
vegetable oils, dairy products and sugar) but in 1978, the ratio fell to
0.74. Structural and institutional constraints still hamper agricultural
development. These include: (i) limited investment in rainfed agriculture;
(ii) allocation of much of the investments to large infrastructure projects
with long gestation periods, especially in irrigation; and underutilization of
some of the previous investments in irrigation; (iii) uneven distribution of
land ownership, fragmentation of farms, and slow progress in implementing land
reform legislation in public irrigation areas; (iv) ineffectiveness of exten-
sion services for small and medium size farmers; (v) inadequate price and
subsidy policies applied to major agricultural products, inputs and irrigation
water, and (vi) limited access to credit for farmers in general and inadequate
supply of credit to small farmers in particular.
25.       Efforts to overcome these constraints are underway and will be
continued during the forthcoming Sixth Development Plan (1982-86). Land
reform activities are being undertaken through the Agency for Agrarian Reform
in Public Irrigation Areas, which concentrates primarily on the distribution
of collective and state-owned lands to the private sector, and on the reorga-
nization of land tenure in irrigation perimeters. The Government recognizes
the need to implement its land reform and consolidation legislation forcefully
to attain agricultural and social objectives. Swift implementation of this
legislation has been hampered, however, by farmers' resistance to changes in
the pattern of holdings. Farmers' contribution to irrigation infrastructure
costs and mandatory development of irrigated land are other key elements of
the land reform and consolidation legislation. These are being reviewed in
the context of on-going irrigation projects. A reorganization of extension
services is planned on the basis of regionalized units at the district level,
and a single contact agent for individual farmers.
26.       Most of the agricultural inputs benefit from some form of subsidy,
either on the cost price or through grant subsidies on the purchases. Farm-
gate sale prices of main food products such as cereals and olive oil are fixed
by the Government, reflecting its concern with the stability of the urban cost
of living. Prices of some other commodities are regulated by import policy
and operation of state trading companies in conjunction with subsidies from
the Price Equalization Fund. Controls of producers prices at low levels in
many cases depress production. The Government has recently taken steps to
decontrol (mutton and beef) or to raise prices to the producers (milk), and
farmers appear to have responded by increasing their output. A periodical
reassessment by the Government of its price policy for both inputs and outputs
is essential to achieve the production targets set in the Plan. The impact of
input price subsidies on production cost and of controlled output prices
for some food items on production is being examined by the Bank economic
mission which visited Tunisia in May/June 1980.
27.       Work to prepare the Sixth Plan has begun and preliminary indications
are available. The overall objective in the agricultural sector will continue



- 9 -
to be the achievement of self-sufficiency in major foodstuffs.  Agricultural
exports are expected to generate sufficient earnings to cover import needs.
The projected expansion of field crops will concern mainly durum wheat, pulses
and sugar beet. This would require increasing use of imported technology,
principally use of high yielding varieties, fertilizers and weed control.
Investment needs for tractors and harvesting equipment would be prominent.
The livestock sub-sector would be expanded with the main expansion being in
the cattle industry where the genetic quality of herds would be improved. A
guaranteed fodder supply and price incentives would be essential to allow
production to result from this improvement. Tree crops would be expanded and
diversified but olives would remain the most important crop. The areas
planted under vegetables would be expected to expand. Tree crop and vegetable
expansion would depend substantially on the further development of the
irrigated perimeters. It is planned to expand the area under irrigation by
about 30,000 ha, and to increase the intensity of cropping.
Agricultural Credit and the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT)
28.       Since its establishment in 1959 as an agriculture credit institution,
BNT has become one of the largest commercial banks in Tunisia with a dense
network of branches covering the whole country. The rapid expansion of the
bank has been accompanied by an increase in its staff and frequent adjustments
in the organizational structure in response to changing circumstances. Of the
total staff of about 1,200, over 100 are university graduates, mostly economists.
In recent years, a growing number of professional agriculturists have been
recruited for the bank headquarters and branches. The most important organiza-
tional changes occurred in 1978, with the establishment of the office of the
General Comptroller in charge of inspection, organization and training, and
an Agricultural Credit Department, separating agricultural credit from
other lending activities.
29.       In 1969, BNT's charter was altered to permit greater diversity of its
banking activities. As at the end of 1978, BNT's total resources amounted to
$660.8 million of which about 70 percent were short-term resources and 30
percent long-term resources. BNT's share capital is $15 million and its total
equity, including reserves and provisions, is $49.3 million or 7.5 percent of
total resources. BNT's two categories of resources are: (i) "normal" re-
sources, which reached $514.9 million at the same date, and include deposits,
rediscount facilities of the Central Bank, capital and free reserves; and (ii)
"special" resources, amounting to $145.9 million, which consist of managed
funds and external borrowings, mainly Bank loans. The managed funds are made
available to BNT: (a) from the Government budget through the Special Fund for
Agricultural Development (FOSDA) - $67.1 million - and the Special Fund for
Fisheries Development (FOSEP) - $21.6 million, and (b) from external aid such
as Bank/IDA - $18.8 million -, the Swedish International Development Agency
(SIDA), Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and US Agency for International
Development (USAID) funds - $26.5 million -, and other resources $11.9
million. Government pays a commission of between 2 percent (FOSDA) and 3.5
percent (Second Fisheries Project, Loan 1746-TUN) to BNT to cover its operating
costs including provisions (para. 34).



- 10 -
30.       Short-term credit is provided through BNT's agency network, the
Mutual Credit Banks (CLCMs), the Mutual Guaranty Associations (SCMs), and
the Development Agencies (Offices). The funds used are BNT's own resources,
rediscount facilities of the Central Bank and various bilateral sources.
CLCMs, which are administered by BNT now play a relatively minor role, whereas
the SCMs, which allow their shareholders to borrow under collective guarantee
from BNT, are rapidly expanding. For medium- and long-term agricultural
investment credit BNT uses FOSDA funds, Bank funds, other bilateral and its
own resources (for sub-loan maturities not exceeding seven years). The annual
budgetary allocations to FOSDA serve a dual purpose: (i) the greater part is
used to make sub-loans to small and medium farmers and cooperatives; and (ii)
a smaller part is used to make direct complementary investment grants for
various types of investments. Commercial farmers have access to FOSDA sub-
loans and investment grants only in exceptional cases for high priority
investments such as medicago establishment. All principal repayments and
interest payments on FOSDA flow back into BNT's special account and are used
for relending.
31.       Although BNT's organization and operations have improved signif-
icantly to cope with its increasing lending program, lending procedures and
centralization of functions are still cumbersome: (i) on-lending of Bank
funds to small and medium farmers is based on an income criterion whereas a
farm size criterion is applied for the allocation of concessionary budgetary
funds; (ii) sub-loan requests from small and medium farmers are appraised by
extension agents of the Regional Agricultural Development Commissions (CRDAs)
under the Ministry of Agriculture but as these agents lack training in agri-
cultural credit procedures, BNT staff have to undertake a time consuming con-
trol; (iii) since BNT assumes part of the risk in Bank-funded sub-loans but
no risk in FOSDA sub-loans, it uses creditworthiness as the decisive criterion
for the selection of the funds to be used; (iv) decision on sub-loan approval
including decision on allocation of government grants is taken at various
levels but is over-centralized; and (v) the use of bilateral aid funds involves
different decision-making bodies. A significant obstacle in making long-term
sub-loans is the lack of formal land titles which in some cases is overcome by
the availability of "Certificates of Possession". Poor quality of appraisal
may lead to wrong investment decisions and consequently to unsatisfactory
reimbursement. Loan supervision from disbursement to repayment is inadequate.
These organizational issues are addressed in the proposed project.
32.       Recovery of credit funds under various lending programs implemented
by BNT is problematic. Recovery rates have deteriorated in general because
three consecutive periods of drought resulted in bad harvests and reduction of
farm income from which debt service would have to be paid. These effects led
to a significant decline of rates from the end of 1978 to the end of 1979 with
the exception of fisheries sub-loans where BNT had made special collection
efforts in accordance with a program agreed with the Bank. In general recovery
efforts and hence recovery rates are higher for sub-loans for which BNT
assumes part or all of the default risk, i.e. in sub-loans to commercial
farmers and agro-industries with 100 percent BNT risk assumption and in
Bank-funded sub-loans to small farmers and cooperatives where BNT assumes
between 10 and 25 percent of the default risk. However the recovery rate for
sub-loans made under the Second Agricultural Credit project (Loan 1340-TUN)



- 11 -
dropped from 78 percent at the end of 1978 to 41 percent at the end of 1979.
In addition to the weather-related reasons there is a large outstanding
installment due from a Government-owned agriculture services company, SONAMO.
Government has participated in a capital increase in this Company which will
enable recovery of the overdue amounts. This arrangement is reflected in a
letter to be signed before mid-June, 1980 which also sets out a timetable for
further improvement of recovery rates (73 percent not later than June 15, 1980
and 85 percent not later than May 31, 1982). Appropriate organizational
measures will be taken under the project to improve loan supervision and
recovery performance in general by strengthening BNT's and the Ministry of
Agriculture's credit services (para. 45).
33.       Due to the lack of a cost accounting system no accurate interest
rate margin calculation for agriculture lending based on the breakdown of
administrative cost by type of lending or group of sub-loan beneficiaries
can be made. This makes it difficult to identify activities which are not
profitable. Therefore estimates regarding the profitability of BNT's agri-
cultural medium- and long-term lending operations had to be made. At the
end of 1978 interest received from credit beneficiaries and management com-
missions received from Government on the medium- and long-term portfolio
represented 2.6 percent of the average medium- and long-term agricultural
resources. This is much lower than the weighted average interest rate to the
ultimate beneficiaries of 6.1 percent because interest from FOSDA sub-loans is
not considered as income but is used for relending. The estimated costs of
making medium- and long-term sub-loans as ratio of total average resources
employed in medium- and long-term agricultural lending at the end of 1978 were
as follows: (i) cost of resources 0.4 percent; (ii) personnel cost 0.9
percent; and (iii) other administrative cost 1 percent. This leaves an
estimated profit margin of 0.3 percent compared with a 0.7 percent profit
margin derived from all BNT activities.
34.       Interest rates in agricultural lending have been a matter of concern
and discussion during the whole period of the Bank's collaboration with the
Tunisian Government and BNT. Under the Second Agricultural Credit project
(Loan 1340 of November 23, 1976), agreement was reached that interest rates
for all project sub-loans should be made on terms and conditions similar to
those funded with Government resources. The interest rates were then deter-
mined to be 6 percent for small and medium farmers (defined as having an
annual net farm income of up to $1,500 in 1976 prices), 7 percent for com-
mercial farmers, and 8 percent for agro-industries. These rates were deter-
mined within the framework of the existing lending rates, repayment capacity
of sub-borrowers, Government incentives and the prevailing low level of
inflation (about 6 percent). The weighted average interest rate for medium-
and long-term agricultural investment loans (including agro-industries)
outstanding as of December 31, 1978 is estimated to be 6.1 percent per annum
because earlier sub-loans, for which installments are still outstanding, were
made at lower rates. It is expected that this rate would reach 6.3 percent by
the end of 1980 while the average inflation rate for the period 1977-79 based
on the consumer price index for Tunisia would go up to 6.5 percent for 1977-79.
There is a need to review periodically the adequacy of agricultural interest
rates within the framework of current market rates to ensure that: (i) they
are at least positive when compared to the inflation rate; and (ii) together



- 12 -
with the system of commissions paid by government to BNT, they cover BNTs
operating costs, including provisions for bad debts. The proposed project
addresses the recovery and interest rate issues discussed above and recommends
initial action to solve them (para. 49).
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
35.       Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967.  It
focused on irrigation and credit to farmers and fisheries. To date, eight
projects have been approved for a total of $138.9 million of Bank/IDA funds.
They include three irrigation projects (Irrigation Rehabilitation in the Lower
Medjerda Valley and Nebhana - Loan 1068-TUN of December 31, 1974, the Sidi
Salem Multipurpose project - Loan 1431 of July 5, 1977, and the Southern
Irrigation project - Loan 1796-TUN of February 8, 1980), two fisheries projects
(Credit 270-TUN of September 24, 1971 and Loan 1746-TUN of July 20, 1979), a
Cooperative Farm project (Loan 484/Credit 99-TUN of February 1967) and two
Agriculture Credit projects (Loan 779/Credit 263-TUN of July 12, 1971 and Loan
1340-TUN of December 17, 1976). The first two of the irrigation projects
are performing satisfactorily whereas the third has not yet been declared
effective. The First Fisheries project was completed at the end of 1979 with
large delays and some difficulties in loan recovery experienced by BNT. The
Second Fisheries project has become effective on May 14, 1980. The Bank also
supports other infrastructural and on-farm investments through a Rural Roads
project (Loan 1601-TUN of July 24, 1978) aiming at improving 1,000 km of rural
roads and agriculture in the zones of influence of these roads.
36.       The Cooperative Farm project was the subject of considerable change
and delay due to serious changes in policy with respect to the structure of
cooperative production units in Tunisia in 1969. The project provided a $18
million loan/ credit for the development of agricultural production coopera-
tives in Northern Tunisia. The original project scope was substantially
revised in 1970 and an amount of $8.8 million was cancelled. The project was
completed at the end of 1973. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR)
No. 968 of January 1976 confirms that most of the project objectives, in terms
of productivity, production, workers' incomes and institutional viability,
were reached, while others, such as elimination of subsistence farming and the
incorporation of private land owners into production cooperatives, had to be
abandoned.
37.       The First Agricultural Credit project of 1971 provided $8.0 million
to finance part of BNT's lending for on-farm investments for mechanization
of grain production, dairy development, date palm plantations and agro-industry
development and technical assistance to strengthen BNT's Credit Division. The
loan/credit was fully disbursed in July 1978. The overall economic rate of
return of the project is over 30 percent compared to 22 percent at appraisal
primarily due to the increased rate of return for the date palm plantations
and the addition of a milk plant component. The project's major achievement
was commencing the dialogue with Government toward uniformity of lending terms
and conditions for agriculture in Tunisia (para. 34). The PPAR No. 2497 which
was issued in May, 1979 raised two points of special interest: (i) expectation



- 13 -
at appraisal of benefits from the mechanization component was too optimistic
and therefore the benefits for this component were in fact lower than estimated;
and (ii) the need to pay more attention to the implementation of agro-industrial
project components to limit cost overruns. The Second Agricultural Credit
project of 1976 provided $12 million to BNT to finance sub-loans to small,
medium and commercial farms, service cooperatives, agro-industry investors,
and small-holder date palm plantations. The loan is expected to be fully
committed by end of 1980 as planned. The main project achievements so
far are (i) the unification of lending terms and conditions in agriculture
thus avoiding the competition of the various funds for the same types of
investment as was the case during implementation of the First Agricultural
Credit project; (ii) an improvement in institutional matters and the strengthen-
ing of the agricultural credit management in BNT; (iii) the incorporation of
Bank financed lending to small and medium farmers into BNT's medium- and
long-term lending program; (iv) the Ministry of Agriculture's decision to make
the appraisal procedure used for sub-loans under the project compulsory also
for sub-loans funded from Government resources; and (v) the assumption by BNT
of a minimum risk in making sub-loans to small and medium farmers. However:
(i) lending procedures, including appraisal and decision-making, are still
cumbersome, lengthy and too centralized; (ii) assistance received from CRDA's
extension agents in making on-farm appraisals and in providing assistance to
the beneficiaries of sub-loans needs improvement in quality and timeliness;
and (iii) BNT's agricultural professional staff in its agencies is inadequate
in both number and quality to deal with sub-loan operations. The proposed
project is expected to improve the situation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       As a follow-up to the Second Agricultural Credit project, the
Tunisian Government and the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT) requested Bank
assistance for a third project intended to finance farm and small scale
agro-industry investments. The proposed project was identified in mid-1978
and prepared by BNT with the assistance of Bank missions. The agro-industry
component was prepared by the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program. The preparation
report was submitted to the Bank in August 1979, and the project was appraised
in November/December 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 12
to May 16, 1980. The Tunisian delegation was headed by Mr. Bouhaouala of the
Ministry of Planning and Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2934-TUN,
dated May 27, 1980) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
A Loan and Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this report; a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet (Annex III) and a map are attached.
Project Objectives and Description
39.       The main objective of the project is to increase agricultural
production within the overall objective of the Tunisian Development Plans in
order to achieve self-sufficiency in food-stuffs. The proposed project also



- 14 -
aims to improve access of small and medium farmers to seasonal and investment
credit and to improve their incomes, and give farmers better technical advice
regarding their cropping patterns and investment needs by establishing
agricultural credit units in which the Ministry of Agriculture and BNT would
share responsibility.
40.       The proposed project would finance about 40 percent of BNT's pro-
jected three-year lending program (1981-83) which would include lending to
small and medium farmers with a value of annual farm production of not more
than $5,000 in 1980 prices, production and service cooperatives, commercial
farmers and agro-industry investors. Part of these farmers would be living in
the zones of influence of the Rural Roads project (Loan 1601 of July 24,
1978). They would absorb about 27 percent of project investments. Lending to
farmers and production cooperatives would finance general farm development,
such as animals and stables, irrigation works and equipment, vehicles and farm
machinery, and the establishment of forage and fruit tree plantations. Sub-
loans to service cooperatives would provide farm machinery, storage buildings
and packaging facilities. Agro-industrial investments would provide for fruit,
vegetable, meat and poultry processing and refrigeration facilities, milk
collection and pasteurization centers and the processing of animal feeds.
It is expected that about 2,250 small and medium farmers, 170 production
cooperatives, 25 service cooperatives and 900 commercial farmers would receive
sub-loans under the project while about 20 sub-loans would finance agro-
industrial investors. The project would also provide for the strengthening of
the Ministry of Agriculture's and BNT's agricultural credit extension programs
by establishing agricultural credit units in all CRDA's and training of their
staff, and by reorganizing and expanding BNT's Agricultural Credit Department
and branch offices.
Cost Estimates and Financing
41.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $60.8 million,
including taxes and duties of $9.5 million. The estimated base costs of the
project components, expressed in projected 1980 prices, are detailed in the
Loan and Project Summary. The small and medium farmers component comprises
about 21 percent, production cooperatives 24 percent, service cooperatives 5
percent, commercial farmers 33 percent and agro-industrial enterprises 14
percent of total project costs. Incremental personnel cost represents about
4 percent. Physical contingencies are 10 percent for civil works. Price
contingencies of 7 percent per annum through 1983 for local costs are based
on projected rates of inflation; for the foreign exchange component, they
have been estimated at 10.5 percent in 1980, 9 percent in 1981, 8 percent
in 1982, and 7 percent in 1983. Physical contingencies represent about 1
percent and price contingencies about 18 percent of the base cost.
42.       The proposed Bank loan of $30 million will finance the total
foreign exchange cost of the project, or about 58 percent of project cost,
net of taxes.   The Bank will finance an average of 41 percent of invest-
ments made by small and medium farmers, 53 percent for production coop-
eratives, 63 percent for service cooperatives, 58 percent for commercial
farmers and 40 percent for agro-industry investors. Sub-borrowers will



- 15 -
contribute $13.1 million, or 22 percent of total project cost, as their equity
contribution to investments. BNT will finance $10.8 million, or 18 percent
of the project cost from its own resources. The Government's contribution of
$6.9 million, or 11 percent of the project cost, would be channelled through
BNT and be applied as grants and long-term sub-loans. Long-term sub-loans
cannot be funded by BNT because of statutory limitations. The conclusion of
an agreement between Government and BNT which will adequately reflect the
above financing arrangements is a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.01(b)(iii) and 7.01). BNT will be the borrower of the Bank loan
while the Government will guarantee BNT's obligations and bear the foreign
exchange risk. The term of the proposed loan will be 14 years including 4
years of grace.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       The range of goods to be financed under the project is extremely
varied and is not suitable for bulk procurement. Contracts would be too
small to warrant international competitive bidding. Therefore, farmers would
purchase agricultural equipment of their choice through existing commercial
channels, which are competitive and can provide necessary servicing facilities.
Dairy farm development would require purchase of in-calf heifers from state-
owned agencies or private farms. In turn, the state-owned agencies will
undertake bulk procurement under ICB procedures. According to experience
gained under the Second Agricultural project, agro-industrial sub-borrowers
would obtain quotations from companies known to them. This procedure is
likely to ensure the most efficient and least-cost procurement by small scale
agro-industrial investors borrowing through BNT. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that all goods and services will be procured through
regular commercial channels at reasonable prices and taking account of such
factors as delivery, efficiency and service (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(a)
(ii)(A)). The proposed Bank loan will cover a period of three years (1981-83).
Loan disbursements would be against 75 percent of sub-loans disbursed by BNT
for farm and agro-industry investments. Bank prior approval will be required
for sub-loans exceeding (i) $125,000 equivalent to production and service
cooperatives, and (ii) $375,000 equivalent to agro-industry investors.
Assurances in these respects were obtained at negotiations (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, paragraph 3(c) and (d)).
Project Implementation
44.       Overall responsibility for the implementation of agricultural credit
programs in Tunisia will remain with BNT which also will be the executing
agency for the project. In certain technical aspects BNT will be assisted at
the provincial level by the technical staff of the Ministry of Agriculture.
In order to expand the credit system in the country, to facilitate access of
small and medium farmers to seasonal and investment credit and ensure a
satisfactory recovery of project and non-project sub-loans a number of actions
will be taken by BNT and Government under the project: (i) strengthening
BNT's agricultural staff at headquarters and in the branches; (ii) increasing
CRDA's agricultural staff concerned with credit; (iii) improving coordination
between BNT's branches and the CRDA's; and (iv) streamlining of lending
procedures.



- 16 -
45.       Measures will be taken during project implementation to improve the
quality of appraisal and supervision and the recovery performance. For this
purpose BNT will strengthen the staff within the Technical Division of its
Agricultural Credit Department at headquarters and cause the Technical Division
to assume the following responsibilities: (i) prepare feasibility studies,
special studies and determine lending criteria; (ii) undertake on-farm appraisal
and review of appraisal work done by branch offices and CRDAs; and (iii)
operate a monitoring system for medium- and long-term lending to agriculture.
At the branch level BNT's agricultural personnel will be responsible for: (i)
technical and financial aspects of on-farm appraisals; (ii) supervision of
sub-loans; (iii) coordination of the branches' work with that of the Agricul-
tural Credit Units (ACUs) in the CRDAs (para. 46); and recovery of all sub-
loans. Supervision of the agricultural work in BNT branches will be the
responsibility of the Agricultural Credit Department in headquarters. Assuran-
ces were obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1981 BNT will increase the
staff of its Technical Division to an agreed level and thereafter maintain its
staffing at the appropriate strength (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a) and
(b)). Assurances were also obtained that no less than 20 branches including
the branches in the four pilot provinces (para. 46) will each be staffed with
at least one agricultural technician by December 31, 1981 and all remaining
branches with agricultural activities by December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.04(c) and 3.05).
46.       Because of the increasing numbers of sub-loans requests stemming
from the various agricultural lending programs including requests for project
sub-loans, the assistance BNT has been receiving since 1977 from the CRDAs
will have to be expanded. For this purpose, ACUs will be created in the CRDAs
to handle: (i) the technical appraisal of sub-loans from small and medium
farmers (para. 48); (ii) extension and supervision follow-up of medium- and
long-term sub-loans for agricultural investments in which BNT does not assume
risk, mainly sub-loans made entirely with FOSDA funds; (iii) close cooperation
with BNT field personnel in all credit matters; and (iv) other tasks assigned
to them in connection with agricultural credit. BNT will establish special
training programs for ACU staff and for its own professional staff and its
branch managers. Detailed staffing requirements for ACUs, training programs
and sub-loan appraisal procedures will be worked out by a "Study Group"
consisting of Ministry of Agriculture/CRDA and BNT representatives. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that: (i) the study group members will be
appointed by January 31, 1981 and that their report and recommendations will
be made available to the Ministry of Agriculture, BNT and the Bank by June 30,
1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(a) and (b) and Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.04(a)); and (ii) ACUs will be installed and working on a pilot basis in the
provinces of Le Kef, Siliana, Kairouan and Nabeul by December 31, 1981 and in
all other CRDAs by December 31, 1982 (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04(b)).
Assurances were also obtained that the training program will start no later
than October 31, 1981 and be completed by December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04(c) and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04(b)(ii) (B)).
47.       Existing lending procedures will be streamlined and decentralized as
much as possible. Approval forms will be simplified and for small investments
not exceeding certain limits to be determined by the study group and for which



- 17 -
farm visits are not considered necessary for technical reasons appraisal will
be confined to desk studies. At appraisal, incremental benefits will be
calculated and BNT will examine the creditworthiness of each applicant.
Approval of sub-loans using IBRD funds or BNT's own funds will continue to be
the responsibility of BNT. For sub-loans below the level of about $7,500,
approval procedures will be gradually decentralized according to the timetable
concerning the staffing of BNT branches discussed in para. 45. Government
will authorize BNT to use Government funds for complementary subsidies for
these Bank- and BNT-funded sub-loans to small and medium farmers. Approval of
sub-loans using Government's FOSDA funds only will be made by the regional
Credit Committees which include one BNT representative. Assurances regarding
implementation of the above measures were obtained during negotiations (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05(b) and (c)).
48.       Lending terms and conditions will be similar to those under the
Second Agricultural Credit project (Loan 1340-TUN). Sub-loans to small and
medium farmers with an annual farm production value of less than $5,000 which
corresponds to a net income of about $2,000 in 1980 prices for a farm family
of six members will have access to concessional credit terms, including
Government grants, which will vary according to the type of investment (from
10 percent for light agricultural equipment to 65 percent for pasture improve-
ment). The average subsidy is estimated to be 15 percent for small and
medium farmers and 20 percent for production cooperatives (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4). The amounts used as grants and Government contribution to
incremental personnel cost will be offset by the taxes and custom duties
directly related to the project investments. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that terms and conditions for sub-loans granted under FOSDA
regulations using Government-funds only will not differ substantially from
project sub-loans (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.10). Assurances were also
obtained during negotiations that BNT will provide project sub-borrowers
access to short-term credit for input financing, including financing of
tractor work on an hourly basis hired from Societe Nationale de Motoculture
(SONAMO) and private farmers (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
Interest Rates
49.       Initially, sub-loans under the proposed project will be based
on the existing interest rates of 6 percent to small and medium farmers,
production and service cooperatives, 7 percent to commercial farmers and 8
percent to agro-industries. Their adequacy will be tested in periodic
reviews to be carried out for the first time, by June 30, 1982, and not
less than once each year thereafter. They would consist of calculations of
interest margins, Government commissions and other revenues earned by BNT and
of BNT's operating costs and would determine whether the weighted average
interest rate for medium- and long-term sub-loans in the year preceding the
review was sufficient to yield (i) a positive margin compared with the moving
average of the last three years' inflation rate; and (ii) together with the
commissions and handling charges, to cover BNT's operating costs and provi-
sions for bad debts. The reviews would culminate in recommendations to be
adopted by financial authorities in Tunisia and BNT Management which would



- 18 -
ensure the economic and financial viability of BNT's agricultural lending
program. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BNT will establish a
cost accounting system by December 31, 1981 which will allow the accurate
determination of income from and all cost elements related to agricultural
lending operations (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02(b)). Assurances were also
obtained that BNT will undertake the interest rate reviews on the basis of the
procedure outlined above or any other criteria analysis acceptable to the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.09). In order that on-lending terms and conditions
of the proposed project do not weaken BNT's global financial position, and
until a new interest rate policy as described above is effective, Government
will continue the present system of making compensatory payments to BNT.
Under the project, arrangements will be entered into between the Government
and BNT providing that Government will: (i) compensate BNT for negative
interest rate margins between interest received from beneficiaries and
interest paid to the Bank and for losses incurred from unrecoverable prin-
cipal, interest and other charges for which BNT does not bear the default
risk; and (ii) pay a commission of 3 percent to BNT to cover its adminis-
trative cost and the build-up of provisions for the risks assumed by BNT
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.08). As under the Second Agricultural
Credit project, BNT will assume the full default risk for sub-loans to
commercial farmers and agro-industry investors (para. 32). For sub-loans to
all other sub-borrowers, BNT's risk assumption will be increased from 25 to 40
percent (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph C).
50.       Under the Second Agricultural Credit project, a monitoring and
evaluation system for commercial farmers was established but encountered
difficulties due to reluctance of farmers to participate and due to staffing
problems. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that BNT will continue
and expand its monitoring program with adequately trained personnel (para. 46)
and for all categories of beneficiaries. The monitoring program will collect
data which will be analyzed periodically in order to measure the impact of
project lending on agricultural development and enable BNT's management to
update and improve lending norms, appraisal criteria as well as lending and
recovery procedures. Assurances were obtained that BNT will prepare and send
to the Bank quarterly progress reports which would include reporting on
progress achieved in its monitoring and evaluation efforts (Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.08 and 3.09(a)). Additionnally, annual reports would be sent as
in the Second Agricultural Credit project. Assurances were also obtained
that BNT will continue to have its accounts audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and that BNT will implement all appropriate
measures recommended in the audit report with respect to modifications in the
accounting system and/or financial statements. Audit reports will also refer
to statements of expenditures regarding withdrawal of loan funds, and will
be sent to the Bank not later than four months after the approval of BNT's
financial statements by its shareholders (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02(a) and
(b)(ii)).
51.       Project lending to agro-industry will mainly be oriented to small
scale units which will process local agricultural products. Since opportuni-
ties for investment in this sub-sector exist but will have to be carefully
studied in order to avoid undue risks, assurances were obtained during



- 19 -
negotiations that BNT would have each individual sub-project evaluated in
accordance with specific evaluation criteria by an agro-industry specialist
on its staff (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, A(c)). Assurances were also
obtained that BNT will be ready to finance adequate working capital require-
ments from its own funds (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
Benefits and Risks
52.       The proposed project would constitute a major step towards improving
the organizational structure and effectiveness of BNT's agricultural lending
operations. It would increase crop production in Tunisia through increased
crop yields due to the employment of better production methods and the oppor-
tunity to change productions pattern as a result of investments in irrigation
equipment, farm implements and tree plantations. Improved animal production,
particularly of milk and meat, would result from investments in the development
of forage crops and in purchase of genetically improved cows, and the construc-
tion of animal shelters. Major commodities generated by the project are
wheat, barley, pulses, vegetables, table olives, meat, milk, eggs and wool.
All project production would contribute to satisfying the increasing demand
for food, with the possible exception of durum wheat and table olives. At
full development, it is expected Tunisia would have an exportable surplus of
durum wheat equivalent to the import level of bread wheat. The alternative to
the project would be comparable increases in imports.
53.       The economic rate of return would vary widely according to the
type of investment; from 18 percent for investment by a large farmer in farm
machinery replacement to 92 percent for investment in well improvement by
small farmers. Based on 1980 prices for inputs and outputs, the financial
rates of return on investments to be financed under the project would range
from 18 percent (agro-industry table olive processing) to 81 percent (pasture
and pure-bred cows of small farmer). Prices of investments could increase
by more than 38 percent in all typical investments without the economic rate
of return getting lower than 10 percent, the estimated opportunity cost of
capital. Agro-industry investments would be sensitive to variations in bene-
fits in financial terms; careful planning is needed to avoid construction
delays and cost overruns and market conditions should be carefully studied to
make realistic price projections. The major project risk would be adverse
climatic conditions which would affect crop yield. This could reduce incomes
and subsequently increase default incidences. Another risk would be deteriora-
tion in Government's services to agriculture, or the credit extension service,
to be established under the project, not performing or executed. In view of
the high priority given to agriculture by the Government these implementation
events are unlikely to occur.
54.       The project would generate approximately 90,000 man-days of seasonal
labor and about 1,100 permanent jobs. Seasonal laborers are expected to come
from the target group. About 900 farm families with about 5,400 members would
be affected by seasonal employment opportunities. On the assumption that 80
percent of the 1,100 permanent jobs created would be occupied by workers who
were previously seasonal workers, another 880 farm families with about 5,300
members in the target group would be affected. The project would also reduce
underemployment through the creation of about 1,200 man-years of additional



- 20 -
family labor on about 2,250 small farms. Sizeable employment opportunities
would also result from associated forward and backward linkages.
55.       For approximately 2,250 small farms which are expected to partic-
ipate in the project the average net income per farm family is expected to
grow from about $1,840 to $4,480. This corresponds to an increase in per
capita income from about $310 to $750. For an estimated 900 large farms, the
average net income per farm family is expected to grow from $13,560 to $19,400
which represents a per capita increase in income from $2,260 to $3,240. In
the production cooperatives the average income per member family for 170
production cooperatives is expected to increase from $1,910 to $2,315. This
is equivalent to a per capita increase from $320 to $385. Of the 11,800 farm
families which would be direct sub-loan beneficiaries, about 43 percent are
expected to come from the target group with income levels of less than $1,380
per family of six. When added to the employment generated (para. 54) a total
of about 41,000 family members whose annual per capita income is below the
relative poverty level is expected to benefit from the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banque Nationale de
Tunisie, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The draft Loan Agreement conforms generally to the
normal pattern for agricultural credit projects. In addition to the features
of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special interest which are
referred to in the appropriate paragraphs of this Report and in Section III of
Annex III, a special condition of effectiveness is that the Government enter
into an agreement with BNT specifying the mutual obligations of the Guarantor
and the Borrower under the project (draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 6, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
TAAU 3A                                                Page 1 of 5
TUISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHElT
TU AREFENCE CiOUPS : :DJUSTZD AyA2
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ.  -l.)                  TUNISIA                            M iOST RECET ESTIMAT)-
TOTAL            i64.0                                                      SANEt        SAtlE    NEX  HlGIICt
AGRICULTURAL       76.6                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       -mWtEM
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d   GCrDP le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   210.0       350.0      860.0           1367.7       926.1      7.M8.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(iIL_.RAtS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      190.0       261.0      456.0            838.1       730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        4.2          5.1       5.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0          44.0       48.0             49.0        49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        26.0         31.0       36.0             19.9        44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      55.0         67.0       77.0             99.0       140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.3         46.2       43.0             45.6        41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                          52.5         50.0       53.0             51.4       55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.2          3.8        4.0              2.8         3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.8 tf      2.0/f      2.3/k            3.0         2.4          1.7
URBAN                                ,,          3.8        3.6              5.2         4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RLATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0        39.0       32.0             43.7        31.1         27.5
CRUDE DIATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.0        14.0       12.0             13.5         9.2          9.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1         3.4        2.2              3.2         2.2          I.$
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        29.2       73.5
USERS (PERCENT OF HMARED WOMEN)    ..            8.0       18.0               ..        34.7
FOOD AND NIUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          122.3         98.0      125.0             90.8      104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    86.0         93.0      102.0             99.0      105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           54.0         63. O/     67.4             63.6       64.4         80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0         14.0i.   20.0               16.0       23.5         31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       29.0        20.0       15.0             15.9         8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    48.0          54.0       57.0             53.8       60.2         b5.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER TROUSAND)  ..         135.0         ..               ..       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        49.0       70.0             56.4        60.8        69.4
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..             83.4       75.7         85.1
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..            34.3        40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..             59.1       46.0         70. 1
URBAN                                ..           ..       30.0             78.2       46.0         88.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            26.4        12.5         33.2
POPULATION- PER PHYSICIAN         IOO0.0       5950.0    4800.0            3677.0     2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ,.        730.0    1070.0            1730.6     1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             360.0/h      410.0      410.0i/.j        577.0      453.4        197.6
URBAN                                *-        280.0      230.0/j,l          ..       253.1        260.2
RURAL                                 .-       930.0    1040.0/               .      2732.4       1055.0
4IMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL NED             ..        24.1        . .             21.8       22.1         17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.1 /L    6.0               5.8         5.3         4.3
UMAN                                 ..          5.1 /i    5.8               5.5        5.2          4.4
RURAL                                 ..         5.1 /t    6.1              6.0         5.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          3.2 lt      ..              ..         1.9          1.1
URBAN                                ..          2.7/4       ..              ..          1.6         1.2
RURAL                                ..          3.6 /1      ..              ..         2.5          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         24.0  I                     45.1       5.           bb.0
URBAN                                                                                  71.7         85.1
RUORAL                                .            .         ...                       17.3



22 -                                           ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEPT
TUNISIA                     REFERENCE          (ADJUSTED AyIRAGES
TUNISIA                 ~~~~- MOST RECENT ET>Ag 
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOCRAPRIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0        100.0     100.0             85.0        102.5       101.7
KALE                  88.0        120.0      118.0            103.7        108.6      110.0
FEKALE                43.0         79.0      81.0              66.0        97.1  .    92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         23.0      20.0              27.6        33.5        51.2
MALE                  19.0         33.0       26.0             39.2         38.4       56.4
FEMALE                 5.0         13.0       14.0             20.8        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  24.0           12.0       17.0              4.3         11.5       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             61.0         48.0      40.0             32.6         35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                           16.0        28.0       23.0             23.4         22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.5         24.0/i    55.0              41.4         64.0       86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         13.0      18.0             16.7         13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          41.0         77.0      141.0           147.9        122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1         10.0      27.0             36.0         38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   19.0         16.0      33.0              17.9        40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..        2.3              2.9          3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1400.0       1300.0/i  1700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     6.1          7.7       8.5              8.6         25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.5         49.8      43.0              43.0        43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.6         21.0      23.0             23.7         21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 27.0         23.7       23.7             26.7        33.5        33.8
MALE                                  50.2         44.2       44.0             46.4         48.0       51.3
FEMALE                                 3.3          3.6        4.0              5.1         16.8       16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.8/i      1.4              1.8          1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..      17.0             21.4         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..      42.0             48.6         52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       6.0              5.3           3.9        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..      15.0             15.0         12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     204.0            201.3        270.0
RURAL                                  .           ..      97.0            134.2        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     193.0            288.6        282.5       550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     193.0            170.0        248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      20.0             22.9         20.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..      15.0             31.2         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator end the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries asong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. besveen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Kiddle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper Middle
Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of
natural increase;   /S  Av. 1964-66;   /h  1962;   /i   1966;   /I  1972;   Ik  Official intercensal
(1966-75) estimate;   /1  Government hospital establishments only.
May, 1979



- 23 -
TUNISIA                                                 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET                                                            Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
Actual                  Prelim.      .     r..e.ctad d              Growth Rates
1972       1976      1977        197B           1981       1986         1973      1977    1982           1978
1976     1981    1986        Share of GDP
A.  NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(Diners millions; 1972 constant
prices)
1.  Gross domestic product                  1,078.0  1,396.0   1,456.5        1,572.0    1,936.8   2,655.3            6.7      6.8      6.5           100.0
2.  Gains from terms of trade                   -        33.2       50.8         91.1       131.6      200.4           -        -        -               5.8
3.  Gross domestic income (1.2)             1,078.0  1,429.2   1,507.3        1,663.1    2,068.4   2,855.7            7.3      7.7      6.7           105.8
4.  Imports                                   282.9    437.3       509.6        540.2       588.9      781.0         11.5       6.1     5.8             34.4
5.  Exports-volume                            Z70.6    310.2       327.7        328.9       413.8      570.7          3.5      5.9      6.6            20.9
6.  Exports - TT adjusted                     270.6    343.4       378.5        420.0       545.4      771.1          6.1      9.7      7.2            26.7
7.  Resource Gap - TT adjusted (4-6)           12.3      93.9      131.1        120.2        43.5        9.9           -         -       -              7.6
8.  lotal Consumption                         857.8  1,167.4   1,275.5        1,388.7    1,680.6   2,286.5            8.0       7.6     6.4            88.3
Public consumption                 150.9    218.0       241.6        267.3       336.5      485.3          9.6      9.1      7.6             17.0
Private consunption                706.9    949.4   1,033.9        1,121.4    1,344.1   1,801.2            7.7       7.2     6.0             71.3
9.  Total investment                          232.5    355.7       362.9        394.6       431.3      579.1         11.2      3.9      6.9             25.1
Fixed investment                    214.0    341.9       368.3        403.2       430.0      575.0         12.4      4.7      6.0            25.6
10. National Savings                          209.4    241.9       218.2        272.5       370.8      540.1          3.7      8.9      7.8            17.3
11. Domestic Savings                          201.7    248.0       237.2        283.0       387.8      569.2          5.3      9.4      8.0            18.0
12. GDP at current prices (USS millions) 2,259.0  4,448.5   5,007.0           5,908.2    8,836.8  16,109.8           18.5     14.7    12.8
13. Fixed investment at current prices        448.4  1,296.6   1,503.5        1,814.0    2,192.9   4,596.4           29.0     10.5    15.9
(USS H)
14. Fixed investment/GDP (current)             19.8      29.1       30.0         30.7        24.8       28.5           -        -        -
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT                                              (Distribution in percentages; 1972 constant prices)
1.  Agriculture                                23.8      20.8       18.5         18.0        16.5       14.6          2.9      1.6      4.0
2.  Industry                                   23.5      23.7       25.0         25.5        26.4       28.3          6.7       8.7     8.0
3.  Service                                    52.7      55.4       56.5         56.5        57.1       57.1          7.8      7.1      6.5
C. PRICES (1972 rZ 100)
1.  Export price index (incl. NFS)            100.0    181.2       197.9        228.0       312.8     387.7          16.0     11.5      4.4
2.  Import price index (incl. NFS)            100.0    163.7       171.4        178.5       246.7      286.9         13.1      8.5      3.1
3.  Terms of trade index                      100.0    110.7       115.5        127.7       126.8      135.1          2.6       2.8     1.3
4.  GDP deflator                              100.0    136.6       147.5        156.4       206.3      244.7          8.1       8.6     3.5
5.  Average exchange rate (dinars per S)   .4772    .4288          .429         .4162       .4034      .4034
D.  SELECTED INDICATORS
(Computed at 1972 constant prices)           1973-76    1977-81    1982-86
1.  ICOR                                             3.2         3.6         3.4
2.  Import elasticity                                1.48        1.16       0.8
3.  Average national savings rate/GDY               18.0        16.5       17.7
4.  Marginal national savings rate/GDY               9.3        20.2       21.5
5.  Imports/GDY                                     28.2       31.0        27.9
6.  Investment/GDY                                  21.3        22.4       20.6
7.  Resource gap/GDY                                 6.6       10.8         8.0
E.  PUBLIC FINANCE (General Gov't)             1972        1976        1977
(as 2 of GDP at current prices)
1.  Current revemie                            21.5        25.3        27.0
2.  Current expenditure                        17.8        19.3        20.0
3.  Current surplus                             3.7         6.1         7.0
4.  Capital expenditure                         6.1         8.1        11.1
5.  Loans and advances (net)                    2.4         2.1         4.1
F.  LABOR FORCE                                1972        1976        1978
(in thousands)
1.  Total labor force                          1450        1671        1782
2.  Employment                                 1277        1440        1522
2.1 Agriculture                             589         593         595
2.2 Industry                                344         437         484
2.3 Services                                344         410         443
3.  Unemployment                                173         231         260 2/
1/  Staff estimates
2/  Includes 29 thousand Tunisians that left to work abroad.



- 24 -
II_A _IMUIMt"ET                                                                1o 
Actual                           Pl.                          '    4    1'
1969        1972          1974         1977          1973          1979          1"1           1996
A.  SUM4ARY Of BFLfACE OF PAYICNTS
1.  Exports (mncl. WES)                           237.8        567.1      1,311.1       1,511.7       1,32.0       2,332.7        3,026.9       S',47.:
2.  Imports (inml. WfS)                           346.2         92.68     1,49.         2,035.7       2,316.9      2,774.2        3,260.0       * 55  4
3.  Resource balsnce                              -50.4        -25.7       -356.7        -524.0        -514.9       -441.6         -241.1         -70.2
U.  Net fector serce 1hic5                        -45.9        -22.7        -58.2         -42.9          -7.2         -55.9         -97.8        -222.6
1.  Net  nvtment LneCO                        -24.4       .43.0         .73.9         -93.9       -132.2        .184.9         -233.5        -369.1
2.  workers' rmittne    -                      21.9        62.0         143.0         16.3          216.3        2.5.6          26.7          354.3
3.  Not other service. ineo,                 -43.4       *41.7        -127.3        -117.2        -91.3        -106.6         -129.0        -207.7
5.  Net current tranfers                            7.9          6.1         -0.5          -0.9           -             -
6.  Bslnoe on current account                     -96.4        -42.3       -417.4        -X7.6         -522.1        .497.4        .334.9        -292.B
7.  Privato direct investment                      19.0         36.7        102.6          92.3          9.1          110.0         137.5         221.4
r.  Official grants                                43.6         37.3         53.2          47.3          3.2           40.0           36.0         30.0
Public M&LT loani
9.  Disbursments                                   92.6        339.3        224.6         643.3          34.0        5n.3.          537.1         714.5
10. Amortization                                   45.0         71.9         65.7          U8.6         103.1         YOJ           261.2        -S26.6
1L. Not disbursements                              47.4        67.9         153.7         554.7         532.9        43.0           275.9         107.7
12. Short-tsrm capital and errors
mid omisslons                                 5.2       -22.4          59.9       -183.2        -110.1           -              -             -
13. Cianges in reosrves                           -18.6        -77.2         43.0          56.7         -35.0        -91.5         -112.S        .146.3
(- . increasea)
14. Nst Foreign exchange reerveo                   -4.0        152.1        304.5         247.8         202.6         374.5 }5.3                1,369.4
B. GRANT AN  LOAN COIWITMENTS
1.  Official grants                                43.6         34.7        102.6          92.3          94.1
2. Total public M&LT loans                        172.8        187.7        774.5         10.6          592.5
2.1  IBO                                       34.4        34.0          60.0          7.5          a7.0
2.2   DA                                         5.5         10.0          4.6           _             _
2.3  Other multilateral                          -            1.0         95.6          36.4          12.3
2.4  loverrwnts                                 71.2        10W.0        454.3         341.4         251.2
2.5  of  ihich centrally plumed
2.6  Suppliers                                  23.2          7.3         16.3          69.2
2.7  Financial institutions                     29.1         27.5        118.3         34.1          262.0
2.8  Other                                       6.4         _            24.0           -
C.  FI2RAMM ITEME
1.  Grant *l_unt of total comtent                   ..          ..           34.6          23.3          13.3
2.  Average interest (perent)                       ..          ..            5.0           6.2           7.2
3.  Average maturity (years)                        ..          ..           20.8          16.           14.1
1/  Stsff estlatas                                                       -  NI or leos thsn htlf of munt   nm                               IEctA CI3I
Not  vailable                             ,          .          Stor  1979



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TUNISIA                                                    DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual
1969       1973       1974        1975        1976        1977        1978
MEDIUM1 AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of QS dollars)
1.  Total cebt outstanding (DOD; end of period)                501.6       826.4      938.9   1,038.9       1,175.2    1,780.1        2,359.1
2.  Including undisbursed        _                             768.3   1,306.3   1,518.5   1,764.2          2,435.6   3,331.6         4,067.9
3.  Public debt service                                         60.4        88.7       91.5      101.6        104.6      143.7          201.4
1.  Interes:                                                15.4       27.7       30.7        35.1        38.7        53.9          95.0
DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1.  Debt service ratio                                          21.0        12.4        7.3         7.6         8.0        9.4           10.9
2.  Debt service and direct Lnvestment tncome ratio             22.0        14.8        7.3        8.7          9.9       10.8           12.6
3.  Debt servtce/'GDP                                            4.6         3.2        2.6        2.4          2.3        2.8            3.4
a.  Public debt service/Government revenue                      19.2        13.9       10.9         9.2         9.3       10.5
5.  Total DOD/GDP                                               37.9        29.7       26.7       24.2         26.3       35.4           39.6
TERIMS (percentage)
1.  Interest on total DOD/total DOD 1/                           3.3         4.0        3.7        3.7          3.7        4.6            5.3
2.  Total debt service/total DOD 1/                             13.0        12.7       11.1       10.8         10.0       12.1           11.3
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M6IT DEBT (percentage)
1.  Gross disbursements/imports (including NFS)                 26.7        19.6       11.6       12.3         13.4       36.1           23.6
2.  Net transfertimports (including NFS)                         9.2         8.2        4.2        5.8          7.2       24.6           15.3
3.  Net transfer/gross disbursements                            34.6        42.1       36.4       46.8         53.5       77.9           65.0
EXPOSURE (percentage)
1.  IBRD disbursements;Total disbursements                       6.4        13.8       16.3       14.1         11.3        7.3            5.7
2.  Bank Group disbursements/Total disbursements                10.2        17.3       20.6       20.7         15.2        8.2            5.9
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                           3.6         8.5        9.4       10.5         10.9        9.4            8.0
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                     6.3        12.9       13.9       15.9         16.3       13.2           10.9
5.  IBRD debt service/Total debt service                         2.6         9.1       12.0       13.7         16.0       14.9           13.3
6.  Bank Group debt service/Total debt service                   2.6         9.6       12.4       14.1         16.6       17.3           13.6
EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                                                    Outstanding. Dec. 31. 1978
(millions of US dollars)                                                              Anount         Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                               189.4            8.0
2.  IDA                                                                                 67.4            2.8
3.  Other multilateral                                                                  62.6            2.7
4.  Governments                                                                      1,247.7           52.9
5.  Suppliers                                                                          110.2            4.7
6.  Financial institutions  -                                                          661.4           28.0
7.  Other                                                                               20.3            0.9
8.  Total public M&LT debt                                                           2,359.1          100.0
9.  Total public MELT debt (including undisbursed)                                   4,067.9          172.4
DEBT/PROFILE
1. Total debt service 1979-1983/Total DOD end of 1978 (percent): 86.3
1/  DOD at the end of previous year                                       -   Nil or less than half of unit shown                                  EE" CPR13
Not available                                                       April 1960



- 26-
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
Loan* or
Credit                                                                              US $ Million
Number  Year   Borrower                          Purpose                           Amount (less
Cancellation)
Bank   IDA b/ Undis.
Twenty-four Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                   139.4  60.5
238     1971   Republic of Tunisia               Population                             4.8    1.5
858     1972   Republic of Tunisia               Tourism Infrastructure         14.0           4.0
937     1973   Republic of Tunisia               Urban Planning & Public
Transportation                11.0           1.5
989     1974   SONEDE                            Third Water Supply             23.0            1.8
1029     1974   Republic of Tunisia               Hotel Training                   5.6           2.3
1042     1974   Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA          Phosphate Development          23.3           3.6
1068     1974   Republic of Tunisia               Irrigation Rehabilitation    12.2              5.4
1088     1975   Republic of Tunisia               Urban Sewerage                 28.0          16.7
1155     1975   Republic of Tunisia               Education                        8.6          8.3
1188     1976   Republic of Tunisia               Second Highways                28.0          24.6
1189     1976   Banque de D6veloppement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)  Development Finance Co.          20.0           0.8
238-1   1976   Republic of Tunisia               Population                             4.8    1.1
1340     1976   Banque Nationale de Tunisie    Agricultural Credit               12.0           6.1
1355     1976   Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz         Power                          14.5           0.6
1431     1977   Republic of Tunisia               Irrigation Development         42.0          23.0
1445     1977   SONEDE                            Fourth Water Supply            21.0          18.8
1504     1977   BDET                              Development Finance Co.        30.0          13.1
1505     1977   Republic of Tunisia               Small-Scale Industrial
Project                        5.0           4.7
1601     1978   Republic of Tunisia               Rural Roads (Third Highways) 32.0            32.0
1675     1979   Republic of Tunisia               Urban Sewerage                 26.5          26.5
1702     1979   Soci6t6 Nationale d'Exploi-    Fifth Water Supply
tation d'Eau                                                   25.0          25.0
1705 a!  1979   Republic of Tunisia               Second Urban Development       19.0          19.0
1746 i/  1979   Republic of Tunisia               Second Fisheries               28.5          28.5
1796 a/  1980   Republic of Tunisia               Southern Irrigation            25.0          25.0
1797 a/  1980   Office des Ports Nationaux        Third Port                     42.5          42.5
TOTAL                                       ..                           *636.1  70.1  336.4
Of which has been repaid                   ..                             61.3   4.7
Total now outstanding                      ..                            574.8  65.4
Amount Sold -                      14.4
of which has been repaid           7.8                                   6.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/          ..                            568.2  65.4
Total Undisbursed                                                        333.8   2.6  336.4
a/ Not yet effective       b/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
* In addition a loan of $36.5 million for a Fourth Highway Project
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 13, 1980.



- 27
ANNEX II
Page 2 of B
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 19BO)
Amount in US $ Million
Year  Obliqator                                   Type of Business                 Loan   Equity Total
1962  NPK Engrais                                 Fertilizers                        2.0   1.5    3.5
1966  Socidtd Nationale d'Investissement          Development Finance Co.                   0.6    0.6
1969  COFIT (Tourisw) -                           Development Finance Co.            8.0   2.2   10.2
1970  Soci6t6 Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                         Development Finance Co.                    0.6    0.6
1973 Societe Touristique & Hoteliere
RYM SA.                                   Tourism                            1.6   0.3    1.9
1973  Societe d'Etudes & de D6veloppement
de Sousse-Nord                            Tourism                              -    0.0    0.0
1975  Societe d'Etudes & de Ddveloppement
de Sousse-Nord                            Tourism                             2.5   0.6    3.1
1974  Industries Chimiques du Fluor               Chemicals                                 0.7    0.7
1978  BDET                                        Development Finance Co.            _      1.3    1.3
Total Gross commitments                                                         14.1   7.8   21.9
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                           5.8   1.6    7.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                                                8.3   6.2   14.5
Total undisbursed                                                                --    0.5    0.5



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:    Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness:  December 29, 1971; Closing Date:  (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1980.
Cr. 238-1:  Population Project:  USv4.8 million Suppl mental Credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: March 21, 1977;
Closing Date:  (Original) December 31, 1979; (Current) December 31,
1980.
After many delays, the maternity hospitals in Sousse, Tunis and Sfax
are now about to be commissioned. The construction of the fourth hospital
at Bizerte is likely to be completed by the end of 1980. Twenty-five of the
29 maternal and child health/family planning centers have been completed;
three will be completed in mid-1980. The center at La Hafsia may have to be
deleted from the project because the Government has been unable to obtain a
suitable site.
Ln. 858: Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of September 28,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973; Closing Date:
(Original) December 31, 1977; (Current) June 30, 1980.
The project has entered its final implementation stage. About
95 percent of project work is completed. The remainder is expected to be
completed by mid-1980. Total project cost, including price escalation allow-
ances, is still estimated at TD 31.5 million. Of the total Bank financing of
$24 million (including the fully disbursed credit 329-TUN of $10 million),
about 85 percent has been disbursed.
Ln. 937: Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432: million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness:  September 24, 1974; Closing Date:  (Original)
December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by the end of 1980. The project helped
establish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning
authority in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and
transport sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial changes
in public programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to encourage
the use of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The project also
assisted the public transport company Societe Nationale des Transport (SNT) in
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
renewing its bus fleet and railway rolling stock, improving its organization
and finance, and upgrading the maintenance of its vehicles with the construc-
tion of a new bus depot. In parallel, the city of Tunis adopted a new traffic
plan with a one-way street system, reserved bus lanes and restricted parking
zones, which contributed substantially to the improvement of bus services in
Greater Tunis. This, combined with an increase in the SNT bus fleet, and
improved bus maintenance has led to an increase in the use of SNT transport
facilities by about 27 percent above the level which would have been achieved
in the absence of the project.
Ln 989:   Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness:  September 24, 1974; Closing Date:   Orliginal)
June 30, 1979, (Current) June 30, 1980.
Ln. 1445: Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
All the water production facilities programmed under the third
project are now in operation. As a result of this major increase in water
production, water supply services in Sfax have substantially improved. The
remaining loan amount will be disbursed for works in the city's distribution
network. Execution of the works included in the fourth project has slowed
down. Contracts for the two remaining items under the project, a water treat-
ment plant and a pumping station, are expected to be awarded by mid-1980.
Having increased the average water rates last year by about 44 percent, the
borrower's financial situation is expected to remain satisfactory for the next
two years.
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: (Original)
October 31, 1978; (Current) October 31, 1980.
The hotel schools at Hammamet and Sousse Nord are now open. The
practice hotels attached to the schools are both to open later in 1980.
Requests for disbursements of the remaining funds should be received by May
1980.
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1980.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were in-
tended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib washing plant which was commis-
sioned at the end of 1979. Following the initial failure of the related
underground mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, the company
has hired experienced consultants whose services are financed by the unused
portion of the Bank loan. The services include: (i) 6 months' technical
assistance in further testing the longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study on
open pit mining of an alternative deposit from which the supply of rock to the
washing plant could be supplemented, and (iii) the design and implementation



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
of an improved cost control system. Early longwall test results are encourag-
ing and it is now likely that this method can be introduced in the Sehib mine
during the next four to six years. The washing plant is currently adequately
supplied from a small open pit operation. A substantial phosphate price
increase this year alleviates the tight financial position of the company
resulting from uncompetitive production cost and excessive loan financing in
previous years. Recent management changes may further contribute to the
improvement of the company's operations.
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation works in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for water supply to
farmers on which a common decision is expected by SONEDE and OMVVM, regard-
ing the latter's contribution to the investment costs. Enforcement of the
Agrarian Reform is progressing slowly, especially in the Medjerda area.
In Nebhana, the land consolidation program is developing well and farmers have
been settled on nearly 60 percent of the total area. OMVVM continues to
encourage large owners to improve cultivation of land and marked progress has
been reported in the distribution of medium- and short-term credit. Progress
in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and road networks
continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness:  August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
(Original) December 15, 1979; (Current) December 15, 1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number
of factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and project
completion is expected by the end of 1981. One of its major benefits will be
release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now has
been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by untreated
sewage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a land-use plan
for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in progress.
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1980; (Amended Project) March 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assistance.
The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million and the
Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, representing
the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Implementation of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily; construction of extensions to one



31
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
teachers' college has commenced and the four other extensions are under
design. Equipment procurement for the teachers' colleges and the ITM centers
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lot 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway are complete and
in progress on Lot 9 on the same route. Works are behind schedule although
quality is generally satisfactory. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in
Nabeul. Construction works of Lots 5, 7 and 11 have not started yet due to
lack of local financing and problems with expropriation. The local financing
issue has been discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and Planning
and a satisfactory physical and financial execution plan now exists for the
remaining items. The final report of the transport coordination study has
been submitted but the Government is still discussing some of the recommenda-
tions with the consultants.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Disbursements are about 6 months ahead of the schedule projected in
the appraisal report. BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past
three years in the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery,
financial practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an
increasingly important role in financing industrial development, extending
about one-third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in
Tunisia.
Ln 1340:  Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
About 52 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 80
percent is committed. Under the small farmer category, lending to production
cooperatives which meet the income criteria applied to small farmers has been
taken up. Prospects are good for the early commitment of funds for service
cooperatives. Commitments of funds to commercial farmers and agro-industries
are progressing satisfactorily but sub-loan applications of farmer associations
for the establishment of date palm plantations have not yet been approved.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines have been
commissioned. Measures are being taken to overcome difficulties in operating
the turbines, which have arisen due to excessive use and lack of spare parts.
The consultants for the energy pricing study have been selected. It is
expected that the study will be completed by the end of 1980.



- 32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. 1431: Sidi Salem Multi-purpose Project; US$42 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is underway. The
Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule. The relocation of
the railroad is suffering some delays, but traffic has not been interrupted
during the last rainy season. Construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon inter-
connection canal started one year behind schedule, but is proceeding well with
the assistance of the People's Republic of China.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a Pilot
project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million to BDET and
of $5.0 million to the Government, of January 25, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The start up of the project suffered from difficulties in finalizing
legal arrangements concerning the SSI Pilot Project component, which delayed
effectiveness by about six months. Nevertheless, commitments under the loan
to BDET have built up rapidly after effectiveness and disbursements are
in line with appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority
in its financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation. Although with some delay, commitments have also begun
under the SSI pilot project showing that the commercial banks' initial reluc-
tance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing is being overcome. Considerable
progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting up a network
of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to
the needs of SSI, as agreed under the project.
Ln. 1601: Rural Roads Projects; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Road construction in the first three of the provinces to be covered
under the project is progressing satisfactorily, and works have now begun
in a fourth province (Nabeul). The Government wishes to accelerate imple-
mentation of the project, so as to complete the works by end-1982.
Ln. 1675: Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of April 13,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proceeding.
Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction is
expected to begin in mid-1980.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. 1702: Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved five urban and thirteen
rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $16.2 million.
Ln. 1746: Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Bids for port infrastructure are being evaluated. Tender documents
for boat engines and hulls have been finalized.
Ln. 1705: Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Planned Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Staffing of the project units and preparation of tender documents
are progressing satisfactorily. Effectiveness is pending receipt of official
documents after Bank commented on drafts.
Ln. 1796: Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of February 8,
1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Loan effectiveness is pending receipt of the legal opinion. Bank
is reviewing bidding documents for well drilling. Tender documents for
procurement of pipes and equipment are being prepared.
Ln. 1797: Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Loan effectiveness is pending finalization of cofinancing arrange-
ments and preparation of legal opinion. The civil works contracts for La
Goulette and Sfax have been signed.
Ln. 1841: Fourth Highway Project; US$37.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1980.
Tender documents for the first year program of rehabilitation are
almost completed.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                               11 months (October 1978 -
August 1979)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:         National Bank of Tunisia (BNT)
with the assistance of IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program
(c)  Project first identified by Bank:          mid-1978
(d)  Date of Bank appraisal mission:            November/December 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:        May 16, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             October 31, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        A special condition of effectiveness would be the Government
entering into an agreement with BNT specifying the Government's and BNT's
obligations under the project (paras. 42, 49 and 57).
2.        Other conditions are:
(i)  the Government would provide BNT with adequate resources for long-
term sub-loans and subsidy funds (para. 42);
(ii)  the Government and BNT would streamline and decentralize lending
procedures (para. 47);
(iii)  BNT would establish a cost accounting system by December 31, 1981
(para. 49) and undertake annual reviews of the adequacy of its
agricultural interest rates and make adequate proposals for their
modification if necessary, the first such review would take place
by June 30, 1982 (para. 49);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv)   the Government and BNT would appoint a Study Group by January 31,
1981 to work out details of organizational and training proposals
(para. 46);
(v)   BNT would:  (i) reorganize its Technical Division in the Credit
Department; and (ii) recruit agricultural technicians in at
least 20 branches by December 31, 1981 and its other branches
by December 31, 1982 (para. 45);
(vi)   Government would establish Agricultural Credit Units (ACUs)
in four pilot provinces by December 31, 1981 and in all other
provinces by December 31, 1982 (para. 46);
(vii)   BNT would set up a training program for the ACU's and its own
agricultural staff by October 1, 1981 (para. 46);
(viii)   BNT would appraise agro-industry sub-projects in accordance with
specific evaluation criteria (para. 51).






f/o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4Ow T,D JJ lAU
----------A  -r -El                           t~:~- 
*C~-S MA          -                      --D
-37'    \A3AEU                                                           .O         -<                              7                                            3
If,""W ,1  A'  
36'                                 6l         F
TADJE ROU IN E
_       _        %          .      ~     ~~~~~ SEN  SIH AL  AEF Ae K¢   R   E;        SFlAY\            <    t           :X = 0 
LU                     (                                         I         EL       G    UETTA,SIw' 
35'
*ERIArEA //-:  \         '1131   B                   .JIEr)  SE'1 KHIRA
. 'OT' J      sX   - Ioh                     . -_                                      G I    f    o Ef Gc     es
' "', -34-                              f110TF El                       _                         <t\3
NEFTA uDEGA ' o_ _ ED Jfl C \L-AF E~~~~~~ADS                                              HUt SOUK
*A   E S
MATMATA                                  ZAEiS
%                                                                ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BEN / ED NI-
TUNISIA
33 THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                 EHOUMRASSE
*     BNT Agencies                                     TI AM
*     BNT Agencies,.n-ogr,iclturol 
3     Provinc,ol Capitals                             A  F R I C A
Provincial Borcndol,es
Paved Roads                                                                                                                        CO
Earth ond Grovel Roads
Rod,woys                                                                            0   oRMAEA
4     Ports
*     Internotionol Airports                                                                              Th.emrphas 6,r,rv,,ve.ever
Salt Lokes                                                                    /                                                 ,ih
32                   - -   Rivers                                                                           -'a
-*-  Internot-orol Bo,ndor,es              0      20      40    e60  _   80e   roo                                       er rva r                  r
K I OMETERS                                        /'dvmentrrrhear                     I _
Fo  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dr,nrave,rl                                                                    owr -Stch -arec 



