Document of                   FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2934a-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Miay 27, 1980
EMENA Projects Department
Agriculture II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 30, 1979)
Currency Unit           Tunisian Dinar (D)
D 0.40            =     US$1
D 1               =     US$2.5
D 1,000           =     US$2,500
US$1,000          =     D 400
US$1,000,000            D 400,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                      British/U.S. System
1 meter (m)                 =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2    =      0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )   =       0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =      2.47 acres
1 litre (1)                 =      0.2200 Imperial gallons (I gal)
0.2642 U.S. gallons (gal)
1 ton (t)                   =      1,000 kg / 2,205 pounds (lb)
1 cubic meter (m3)          =      35.315 cu ft
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ACU       - Agricultural Credits Units
BCT       -  Banque Centrale de Tunisie
(Central Bank of Tunisia)
BDET      -  Banque de Développement Economique de Tunisie
(Economic Development Bank)
BNT       -  Banque Nationale de Tunisie
(National Bank of Tunisia)
CCCEA     -  Consultative Committee on Agricultural Credit
CLCM      -  Caisse Locale de Crédit Mutuel
(Mutual Credit Bank)
CRDA      -  Commissariat Régional du Développement Agricole
(Regional Agricultural Development Commission)
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
FOSDA     -  Fonds Spécial de Développement Agricole
(Special Fund for Agricultural Development)
FOSEP     -  Fonds Spécial d'Encouragement à la Pêche
(Special Fund for the Encouragement of Fishery Investments)
FRR       -  Financial Rate of Return
MOA       - Ministry of Agriculture
PPAR      - Project Performance Audit Report
SCM       -  Société de Caution Mutuelle
(Mutual Guarantee Association)
SCMV      -  Société Civile de Mise en Valeur
(Farmer Association for Joint Farm Development)
SIDA      -  Swedish International Development Agency
SONAMO    -  Société Nationale de Motoculture
(National Company Providing Tractor and Harvesting Services)
UCP       -  Coopérative  de Production
(Production Cooperative )
USAID     -  US Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution mnd may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiel duties. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without Worid Bhnk authorization,






GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION ..........................................            1
Il.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...............................            1
A.  Place of Agriculture in the Economy ....        ...........   1
B.  Land Use ..........................................           2
C. Agricultural Performance in the Fifth Development
Plan.                                                       3
D. A Preliminary Examination of Likely Trends During
the Period of the Sixth Development Plan    ........       4
E.  The Agroindustry Subsector ........................           6
F. Agricultural Sector Issues and the Bank's Role
in Lending to Agriculture .......................          7
G.   Previous Projects and the Bank's Role ....        .........  10
III.  THE ROLE OF AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN TUNISIA, THE BANQUE
NATIONALE DE TUNISIE AeD ANALYSIS OF ISSUES .... .....    il
A.  The Credit System .................................          il
B.  Agricultural Credit Sources .......................          il
C.  BNT:  Background, Organization and Personnel ......          13
D.  Internal Control, Accounting and Auditing .... .....    14
E.  Lending Procedures ................................          15
F.  Resources .........................................          17
G.  Financial Position and Structure ....         ..............  18
H.  Interest Rates ....................................          20
I. Summary of Issues Related to Agricultural
Credit   ..........................................       21
IV. PREVIOUS BANK AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS IN
TUNISIA .............................................          22
A. The Cooperative Farms Project
(Loan 484/Credit 99-TUN) ........................         22
B. The First Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 779/Credit 263-TUN) .......................         22
C. The Second Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 1340-TUN) .................................         23
The Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in November/
December 1979, composed of Messrs. J. Duester (Agricultural Credit Specialist),
J. Doolette (Agriculturist), F. Remy (Economist, Consultant), and S. M'Tibaa
(Agriculturist, Consultant).



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.   THE PROJECT  ...........................................                            24
A.   Objectives  ........................................                          24
B.   Description  .......................................                          24
C.   Cost  Estimates  ....................................                         26
D.   Financing  .........................................                          28
E.   Procurement  .......................................                          29
F.   Disbursements  .....................................                          29
VI.   PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ................................                           30
A.   Project  Execution  .................................                         30
B.   Organization  and  Staffing  in BNT and CRDAs  ........                       31
C.   Procedures  for Appraisal  and  Supervision  ....                 ......      32
D.   Lending Terms  and Conditions  ......................                         33
E.   Interest  Rates  ....................................                         34
F.   Training  ..........................................                          35
G.   Agroindustry Component  ............................                          35
H.   Monitoring,  Evaluation  and Reporting  ....                  ..........      36
I.   Accounts  and Audit  ................................                         36
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ............................                            37
A.   Production  Generated by the Project  ....                   ...........      37
B.   Markets  ...........................................                          38
C. Prices ....                                                                     39
D. Financial  Benfis40
D.   eiaca           Beefits  ...................................................  4
E.   Employment  and  Income Effects  .....................                        42
F.   Economic  Analysis  .................................                         43
G.   Sensitivity Analysis  and Project  Risks  ....                  ........      43
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS  FOR AGREEMENTS  ........................                           44
ANNEXES
1.   Total  Project  Costs  and Schedule  of Expenditures  ......
2.   Disbursement  Schedule  .................................
3.   On-lending  Terms  and Conditions  for Project  Subloans
4. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File  ................................................
File.BRD 14921
Map IBRD 14921



GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Tunisia and the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT)
have requested a Bank loan to help finance a Third Agricultural Credit Project
intended to finance farm and small scale agroindustry investments. The
Project follows two previous Bank agricultural credit projects implemented by
BNT (paras. 4.02-4.09). The Project would finance medium- and long-term farm
investments for small, medium and large farmers including those situated in the
zones of influence of the Rural Roads Project (Loan 1601-TUN), production and
service cooperatives, and development investment for small scale agroindustry.
1.02      The Project was identified and prepared by BNT with the assistance
of Bank missions supervising the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
1340-TUN). The Project's agroindustry component was prepared by the IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program. BNT submitted a preparation report in August 1979 which
formed the basis for a Project Brief issued in November 1979. The preparation
report was also used in the preparation of the Appraisal Report.
Il. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
2.01      The population of Tunisia is estimated at 6.0 million (1978) and
the average rate of growth between two recent censuses was 2.3%. Agriculture
is important in the Tunisian economy despite a relative decline over the
last ten years due to the rapid growth in other sectors, particularly the
industrial sector. Agriculture contributed about 18% to the GDP in 1978
compared with 24% in 1972; agricultural exports accounted for 17% of the total
exports in 1978 compared with 40% in 1972; and during the same period, agricul-
ture's share of the total imports also fell to 12% from 20%. The labor force
engaged in agriculture increased slightly from the 1966 to the 1975 census.
In 1978, about 35% of the labor force was engaged in agriculture.
2.02      The sector has grown substantially in the last 10 years.  The value
added in agriculture grew at about 6.8% in real terms in the period 1970-78.
Only 20% of Tunisia's agricultural production comes from the irrigated areas.
The majority is from rainfed areas and consequently production is affected by
variations in climate. These effects are mainly felt in cereal and livestock
production. In the years 1972-1976 the rainfall patterns were favorable. In
the years 1977 and 1978 they were not and yields were lower. However, the



- 2 -
long-term growth trend has been maintained due to improved production methods,
developed by local research and adopted as a result of field demonstrations.
For cereal production these include the use of improved varieties, better seed
bed preparation as a result of more and better use of machinery and expanded
use of herbieides. For livestock production the major advance has been in
improved supplies of forage from both irrigated and rainfed sources. Rapid
expansion of irrigated vegetable production has contributed to the growth
pattern. There has been an expansion of the irrigated perimeters and a marked
development of credit facilities.
2.03      In the period of the Fourth Development Plan (1973-1976), agricul-
tural exports nearly equalled food imports but the ratio fell to 0.74 in 1978.
Tunisia exports olive oil, fresh fruit and vegetables, processed products,
fish and wine, while the major deficit and hence import groups are cereals,
sugar and dairy products.
B. Land Use
2.04      Tunisia has an estimated total area of 16.4 million ha of which
9 million is suitable for agriculture. Climatically and agriculturally the
country has three parts, namely, Northern Tunisia where the mean annual
rainfall exceeds 350 mm, Central Tunisia where the mean annual rainfall ranges
from 200 to 350 mm, and Southern Tunisia where the rainfall is less than 200
mm. The no-th is th region of rainfed field crops whereas agriculture in the
centre and south is ,onfined to rainfed tree crops (predominantly olives),
marginal cereal production and free range sheep grazing. The irrigated areas
are in the three regions.
2.05      The cultivated area available for annual and tree crops is about 4.5
million ha, about 1.1 million ha are covered with forest or esparto grass and
the remainder is grazing land. The area of irrigable land is estimated to be
165,000 ha, of which about 70,000 ha is in the public areas. Preliminary
indications from a recent field survey suggest a greater area in the private
sector and hence a greater total. This has yet to be confirmed and so too,
does the actual irrigated area and the cropping intensity. The actual irri-
gated area is in the order of 110,000-120,000 ha and the cropping intensity
about 115%. Tree crops are a significantly large part of the irrigated
surface and along with the vegetable sector where the cropping intensity is
higher, make up the greater part of the production. Although the area of
irrigation is now only about 3% of the cultivated area, its production per
hectare is high. The area of fallow is about 800,000 ha of which a portion
provides some grazing for animals. Some of this area can be used for forage
and fodder crops especially in the northern region.
2.06      There are three forms of land tenure in Tunisia, namely, private,
collective and state. Recent estimates showed 58% private ownership, 23%
collective land and 19% state-owned and national forest land. This pattern is
changing through laws which provide for collective and state land to be
offered for private ownership. In the private areas there are four significant
charateristics:



- 3 -
(i)  farms of small surface area predominate with 41% of farms being less
than 5 ha and 43% between 5 and 20 ha;
(ii)  the remaining 16% of farms amount to almost '0% of the agricultural
land;
(iii)  farms of less than 20 ha are frequently fragnented;
(iv)  ownership of over 40% of the land is without title and steps are
being taken to regularize this.
State-owned land is being used for state farms and pilot farms (approximately
220,000 ha); production cooperatives (approximately 224,000 ha); and a reserve
for agrarian reform operations (approximately 300,000 ha held for exchange
with land in public irrigation areas, or allocation for farming by present
occupants, young unemployed farmers and young technicians).
2.07      The production cooperatives (UCP) were created in 1962 on land which
was appropriated from colonist and supplemented with adjacent land. The coop-
erative members were mainly workers employed by the colonists. The original
concept was changed in 1969 reducing both the number of units and the surface
area, and stopping the deterioration in production. There are 217 units in
the north managed by the Bureau of Control, Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
There are approximately 9,500 cooperators and their average income is reported
to be in the order of D 500 (US$1,250) per year. About 8,000 seasonal workers
are employed annually in this sector.
C. Agricultural Performance in the Fifth Development Plan
2.08      The primary agricultural goal in the Fifth Plan (1977-81) is to
bring the trade balance of food products into equilibrium, and thus achieve
self-sufficiency in food by 1981. The following quantitative targets have
been set up:
(i)  an average annual increase in agricultural production of 6.5%;
(ii)  an increase in investment volume to a total of D 500 million
(irrigation 244, equipment 80, livestock 56, fisheries 46,
tree crops 35, forestry 27, miscellaneous 12) compared with an
investment of D 197 million in the previous plan;
(iii) the creation of an additional 30,000 permanent jobs in agricul-
ture, and 6,000 in fisheries.
Specific product targets include:
(a) an increase in cereal production to provide an exportable surplus
of durum wheat sufficient to match bread wheat imports;
(b) an increase in meat and egg production to equal needs; and



- 4 -
(c) exports of olive oil, fruits, vegetables and fish products to the
extent needed to offset the imports of vegetable oils, sugar and
some input requirements.
2.09      Tunisian agricultural policy is directed towards in reasing rural
incomes and living standards by:
(i) increasing agricultural productivity by facilitating the farmers'
access to improved production methods, production inputs and credit;
(ii) strengthening the agricultural institutions;
(iii)  exploiting natural resources by providing the infrastructure for
irrigation and at the same time increasing efforts to control
erosion, desertification and the degradation of soils and forest.
The agricultural sector policies aim to meet the food needs of the population
and are directed towards increased efficiency in production mechanisms.
Social improvements are expected to follow. This approach has achieved
impressive results in previous years. However, the sector employs a large
number of low income workers and the rural population continues to be at a
disadvantage in relation to urban population in respect to income, living
standards and social services although the percentage of absolute poor is
greater in the urban areas.
2.10      The deployment of investment resources seems to be close to the
program even though some delays have occurred in irrigation, horticulture and
fisheries. For the specific production targets, performance is variable and
sometimes affected by weather patterns.  Sugar production will fall short of
its target because of a delay in construction of a new factory. Large quan-
tities will be imported. Cereal production was seriously affected by droughts
in 1977 and 1978 and production trends are difficult to interpret. Notable
efforts have been made in respect to the distribution of production inputs and
the extension of technology so that given favorable seasons the effects of
these will be significant. Nevertheless Tunisia is unlikely to export durum
wheat by 1981 and the import of bread wheat could be even higher than esti-
mated.  Meat production has not yet shown the effects of the droughts but is
likely to do so when slaughtering is reduced to allow numbers to build up.
The implementation of agricultural policies is variable.  The efforts towards
strengthening agricultural research have been mediocre and the implementation
of improvements projected for the extension services have been slow.
D. A Preliminary Examination of Likely Trends During
the Period of the Sixth Development Plan
2.11      Work is now starting on preparation of the Sixth Plan (1982-86).
The data given below are preliminary. They represent a first look at the
possible trends in agriculture between now and 1986. The overall objective
in the agricultural sector will be the same as that of the Fifth Plan, namely
the achievement of self-sufficiency, with agricultural exports generating
sufficient earnings to cover import needs.



2.12      Field Crops.  The aim is to increase annual production to at least
1.3 million tons by 1986 from the present 1.1-1.2 million tons, given normal
seasonal conditions. The priority will be durum wheat. It will be neces-
sary to increase the area sown to this crop, to develop the production and use
of seed of high yielding varieties, to treat larger areas with herbicides, and
to increase the use of fertilizer (at least a 60% increase of phosphate in
the form of super 45 and over 100% increase of nitrogen fertilizer). It is
planned to expand the area of pulses by at least 12,000 ha and sugar beet by at
least 8,000 ha. Additional equipment will be required for this. The annual
demand for tractors will increase from about 2,650 to about 3,100 units in
1986, depending on the final crop targets. This will include a large percent-
age of renewals. The same applies to combine harvesters and a demand for
forage and beet harvesters will arise.
2.13      Cattle.  The first goal is to increase the number of pure-bred
livestock units from 32,000 to at least 47,000 by 1986. This development
will be mainly in the private sector (an increase of at least 7,000 units) and
to a lesser extent on the UCPs in the beginning. The second goal consists of
increasing the size of the improved local breed herd from 5,500 to 8,800
livestock units. These expansions will increase production of whole milk
by at least 25% and meat by at least 15%. The conditions for expanding
both herds are a guaranteed fodder supply and adequate price incentives.
2.14      The priority investment items will be in livestock, construction of
stables and the equipping of some of these (particularly those of the UCPs)
with milking machines and storage tanks. About 100 UCPs and 800 private
farmers will be involved in connection with the pure-bred improvement and about
2,000 small farmers in connection with the improved local stock.
2.15       Sheep.  The goal is to increase the flock size to the same level it
was before the recent bad years. The milk breed will then number 180,000-
200,000 livestock units and the meat breed approximately 3.5 million livestock
units.
2.16      Poultry.  The poultry sector will continue to develop production
of laying hens, broilers and breeders. The investment needs will include
construction of several hundred new batteries and renewal of some existing
equipment.
2.17      Tree Crops.  The principal expansion in area which is now approx-
imately 1.i millîon ha rainfed and 76,000 ha irrigated, will be of olives for
oil, where new plantings of at least 40,000 ha are expected. The areas under
almond trees, grape vines and table-olive trees are estimated to increase by
14,000 ha, 1,500 ha and 1,250 ha respectively, and there will be several
thousand hectares of various other tree crops. The emphasis in the newly
opened irrigated areas will be to pome and stone fruits (an additional
3,000 ha), table olives (an additional 2,500 ha), grapes and citrus fruits.
The investment needs in this sector concern replanting existing plantations
which are either too old or of unsatisfactory variety, and to extension of
existing plantations. An annual increase of at least 9,000 ha (rainfed) and
2,000 ha (irrigated) is foreseen.



- 6 -
2.18      Vegetables.  Of the total area under vegetables, approximately
12,000 ha are rainfed and 80,000 ha are irrigated. It is expected to expand
by about 15,000 ha, mainly peppers, tomatoes and potatoes.
2.19      Irr;gation.  It is planned to expand the area of irrigation by about
30,000 ha and to increase the intensity of cropping. The important investment
needs will be provision of pump-sets for well and river pumping, and deepening
of wells where groundwater and salinity conditions permit. Renewals will be
important in this period.
E. The Agroindustry Subsector
2.20      The developed subsectors, such as the manufacture of olive oil and
olive cakes, the canning of fruit juices and vegetables, the canning of fish
and the manufacture of livestock feed, are experiencing increasing difficulty
in obtaining their raw materials and/or in marketing their products efficiently.
These difficulties are the result of inadequate management, incorrect size of
facilities, poor marketing arrangements and improper location of the facilities.
The three main lines of development planned are:
(i) to proceed with planned investment projects of proper design and
location, effectively integrated with the supply and demand areas;
(ii)  to replace  nd modernize existing equipment; and
(iii)  to establish plants in new subsectors or in those that are
still underdeveloped in Tunisia (para. 2.22).
2.21      New projects for fruit and vegetable processing, olive-crushing
mills or livestock feed plants should be treated with care to see that they
respond positively to the above criteria. Any substantial expansion could
only be justified when new agricultural areas come into production where
irrigation is being introduced, and providing that processing plants can
be guaranteed minimum supplies of raw materials by agreements with growers.
The pressure on raw material prices because of the domestic demand for fresh
fruit and vegetables is a handicap to the development. This handicap is
aggravated by the rapidly increasing cost of packaging in the canning indus-
try. In addition, Tunisia's traditional external markets are being progres-
sively saturated and access to new markets, especially in the Middle East, is
becoming difficult.
2.22      Apart from investment in replacement and modernization of existing
plants, the subsectors in which investment opportunities appear most favorable
are:
(i) the refrigerated produce subsector, in which there is a potential
for substantial expansion in storage of produce particularly
vegetables, fruit and eggs;
(ii) the dairy industry, for collection centers if production expands;
and



(iii) new subsectors engaged in diverse activities: manufacture of natural
food coloring agents; processing of almonds; table olives; manufac-
ture of confectionary; production of raisins; oil mill processing of
imported soya beans.
Individual opportunities should be further checked with feasibility studies.
The agrofood industry should thus move progressively in the direction of more
sophisticated manufacturing activities, oriented to the needs of markets that
are becoming increasingly demanding in terms of product quality. Good oppor-
tunities for expansion in the agroindustry subsector exist, but the risks are
growing. It would be necessary to examine the measures for minimizing the
risks in any new proposal.
F. Agricultural Sector Issues and the Bank's Role
in Lending to Agriculture
Sector Issues
2.23      Investments in Agriculture.  Agricultural investment is approxi-
mately 12% of the total investment in the Fifth Plan (1977-81) which is similar
to that in the Fourth Plan. However, an estimated 48% of these investments
projected for the Fifth Plan are not related directly to the goals of the
Fifth Plan and consist of fixed capital investments predominantly in irriga-
tion works which will not produce results until after 1981. There is a
distinct policy to invest in longer term programs as well as in short- and
medium-term goals. This is entirely reasonable providing the amounts devoted
to short- and medium-term goals are adequate to meet the immediate product
targets. This appears to be the case. There is an urgent need, which is
understood by the Government, to fully utilize the irrigation facilities
created by past investments.
2.24      Land Tenure. The land reform activities being undertaken by the
Government in the publicly-owned irrigation lands are now conducted through a
specially formed Agency for Agrarian Reform in Public Irrigation Areas (Agence
de la Reforme Agraire dans les Perimetres Public Irrigues). These activities
include:
(i) transfer to individual ownership of collective land
suitable for agriculture now entrusted to the Forestry
Department of MOA for its improvement and conservation;
(ii) distribution of state-owned land in small plots; and
(iii) transfer of the former tribal lands.
The newly formed agency is experiencing difficulties in respect to maximum and
minimum size limits for effective land use; the compliance of farmers with the
legal requirement to contribute to the investment cost; opposition to the
consolidation of holdings; and the enforcement of the mandatory exploitation



- 8 -
of the land distributed. The two basic provisions of the general land reform
law, namely, contribution to infrastructure costs and compulsory development,
have not been enforced by the Government so far and need to be put into effect
gradually but vigorously.
2.25      Land reform in the privately-owned rainfed sector is warranted with
the same provisions that are being applied in the irrigated perimeters.
Accelerated procedures for issuing land title deeds are being followed but are
falling behind. The issuing of certificates of possession as an interim
measure is alleviating the problems particularly in allowing access to credit.
No measures seem to be taken in respect to rural leases which would encourage
better farming practices or the taxation of underutilized land which would
assure greater production.
2.26      Mechanization.  Timeliness in seed bed preparation and planting is
a fundamental factor in successful stand establishment for field crops in
rainfed areas. This requires for both operations the flexibility to carry
them out rapidly and when the soil moisture conditions are optimal. Mechaniza-
tion reduces the amount of land which must be used to produce feed for draft
animals. It also reduces the drudgery of agricultural labor at a time when a
large amount would be required. Tractors permit better quality land prepara-
tion and can work longer hours than the combination of man and draft animal.
The total hours attributed annually to tractors are generally more than that
normally required for the specific field operation because of the extent
to which the tractor is used for transport and the sporadic custom work.
Generally, good rates of return can be demonstrated for tractor loans whether
they be for replacement or for new tractors because replacement is rarely
contemplated before a production decline is imminent. These could be enhanced
if the extent of the custom work or the transport could be estimated to in-
clude in the analysis.
2.27      Mechanical harvesters are justified on farms of large areas where
seasonal labor shortages would invite harvest loss (subsequent gleaning and
animal grazing can scarcely justify heavy harvest loss). Mechanical weed
spraying does not represent a large investment but is entirely justified,
particularly for early competing weeds which are difficult to remove by any
other means but whose competitive effect is considerable at the early growth
stage. Selection of appropriate implements and careful matching of accesso-
ries to tractors, neither of which has been common in Tunisia, could give
increased efficiency in farming operations and consequently improved harvested
yield.
2.28      Training, Education, Extension, Research.  Vigorous  policies for
agricultural training at all levels have been profitable and have resulted
in a large number of well-trained and motivated people. In some areas the
job opportunities are less than the number of technicians and skilled workers,
and the opportunity exists to install some of these in production areas and
transfer others to deficient areas such as that of credit extension.
2.29      Agricultural extension continues to be less effective than is
envisaged and the main causes for this are attributed to the multiplicity of
agencies, and the lack of means for individual agents. The development of



- 9 -
extension activities by development authorities (irrigation offices) and
production and marketing authorities in apparent competition to the Regional
Agricultural Development Commissions (CRDA), the local representation of MOA
which includes the extension service appears to have been justified at the time
of their creation. The Government is now aware of the need to rationalize
these services on the basis of regionalized extension units at the district
level, and the single contact agent for individual farmers. These networks
will be backstopped by specialists at the provincial level. Development
authorities will continue to provide extension services exclusively in their
areas of authority. Most areas of technical backstopping are catered for at
the provincial level. The notable exception is in respect to agricultural
credit and this report addresses this critical issue.   The extension service
is less effective if the technological package is inadequate. Even though
adequate technological packages are available for most products, they need to
be constantly updated. Appropriate technology can only be generated from
national research services. The Tunisian research capacity in agriculture is
improving but the overall service is not adequately oriented towards creating
and updating the production technology for the important products.
2.30      Prices and Subsidies.  Most of the agricultural inputs especially
seed, fertilizer, stock food and water benefit from some form of subsidy.
Either the selling price to farmers is kept at a level fixed by the Government
or else the Government makes some form of subsidy to most farmers on their
purchases. The input most heavily subsidized has been irrigation water.
Because of the considerable cost to the Government of irrigation infrastruc-
tures, it seems reasonable to raise water prices as well as collecting the
contribution to investment (para. 2.24). In lending for irrigation projects,
the Bank has stipulated measures to increase users contribution towards water
costs.
2.31      Farmgate prices received for the important food products are con-
trolled by measures to protect the consumers. These measures have done much
to stabilize urban cost of living. The effect of the measures on the farmers'
willingness to produce varies with the product. Sufficient margin exists in
the case of cereals, which like olive oil and wine have controlled prices.
With meat and with eggs, this has not been the case where the controls appear
to have limited production. Recent relaxation of the rigid control of mutton
and beef has allegedly already resulted in some increased enthusiasm. The
Government fixes the price for whole milk from which price is deducted the
cost of transport from the collection point to Tunis, the cost of washing and
returning the containers and the 3% agricultural tax. The price is regarded
as too low to encourage sale to official markets but the production has been
increasing because of higher prices paid by independent vendors. Approx-
imately five times the quantity goes to the independent outlets than to the
Government sponsored trade. A very recent rise in the fixed price is likely
to increase the interest in the official market and continue the stimulation
of production. The impact of input price subsidies on production costs and
of controlled output prices for some food items on production will be examined
in May/June 1980 by a Bank economic mission in Tunisia.
2.32      Poverty.  Although the production oriented agricultural policies
and program have made considerable progress towards self-sufficiency in food



- 10 -
production and although incomes have improved, part of the rural population
remains below the absolute poverty level. There is a still larger group
who are disadvantaged relative to the urban population in respect to social
well-being. The absolute poverty level in Tunisia at the present time is
estimated to be D 113 (US$283) per capita for urban dwellers and D 54 (US$135)
per capita for the rural inhabitants. The relative poverty levels are D 187
(US$468) and D 92 (US$230) respectively.
2.33      Absolute poverty declined from 27% to 20% in urban areas and from
20% to 15% in rural areas between 1966 and 1975. In actual numbers the rural
poor segment decreased from 556,000 to 439,000 during the period which had a
relatively rapid population growth rate of 2.3%.
2.34      The two rural areas of most concern are the Northwest and to a
lesser extent the South. On the whole, the Northwest is not a poor agricul-
tural area in terms of resources but there is an uneven distribution of
resources and a lack of alternative employment opportunities. These areas
should be better identified, their economies analyzed and appropriate programs
developed. The Northwest Region Project which is foreseen for Bank financing
will aim at improving the lot of a large number of farm families in the
poverty group.
G. Previous Projects and the Bank's Role
2.35      The Bank's agricultural sector strategy in Tunisia is to emphasize
rural development, create and rehabilitate irrigation infrastructures, develop
the fishing industry and provide credit to farmers. Bank group lending for
agriculture in Tunisia began in 1967 and to date eight projects have been
financed or approved totalling US$138.9 million of Bank/IDA funds. The eight
projects include three irrigation projects: Irrigation Rehabilitation in the
Lower Medjerda Valley and Nebhana (FY75), Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project
(FY79) and the Southern Irrigation Project (FY80). There have been two
Fisheries Projects (FY72 and FY79), a Cooperative Farm Project (FY68) and two
Agricultural Credit Projects (FY71 and FY77). The Rural Roads Project (FY78)
aims to improve 1,000 km of rural roads and the agriculture within the zones
of influence of these roads.
2.36      The first two of the irrigation projects are performing satis-
factorily whereas the third and most recent has not yet been declared effec-
tive. The First Fisheries Project was completed at the end of 1979 with large
delays and some difficulties in loan recovery experienced by BNT. The Second
Fisheries Project has become effective on May 14, 1980. The,Cooperative Farm
Project and the First Agricultural Credit Project have been completed.
Relevant Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been issued in 1976 and
1978 respectively (paras. 4.01 to 4.03). The Cooperative Farm Project was
subject to considerable change and delay due to serious shifts in land reform
policies, and organizational structures of production cooperatives in 1969.
The Rural Roads Project has been effective since April 1979 and roads develop-
ment is progressing (para. 4.09).



- il -
2.37      The Bank's lending program for Tunisia is consistent with Tunisia's
Plan objectives. It stresses continued dialogue on the approach to rural
development projects for Bank financing which would concentrate on economic-
ally backward areas and be directed to the target group. It envisages further
irrigation rehabilitation projects and further agricultural credit projects,
each directed more towards the small farmer.
III. THE ROLE OF AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN TUNISIA,
THE BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE AND ANALYSIS OF ISSUES
A. The Credit System
3.01      The Tunisian banking system comprises the Central Bank (BCT); 10
commercial banks with a majority Government participation in two of them,
BNT and Societe Tunisienne de Banque, 17 local mutual credit banks (Caisses
Locales de Credit Mutuel, CLCM); four agencies of foreign banks; two investment
banks, one of which is the Economic Development Bank (Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie, BDET), and several other financial institutions.
3.02      The banking system is controlled by BCT which, in addition to its
function as currency-issuing bank and custodian of foreign reserves, acts as
banker to the Government and to the commercial banks. It controls the banks
and the credit system through a variety of measures: various ratios pertain-
ing to the financial structure of the banks (among them the liquidity, the
solvency and the rediscount ratio), rediscount rate, rediscount ceiling, regu-
lation of interest rates for deposits and lending, prior approval of loans
to be eligible for rediscount, reserve requirements and others. These control
measures are designed to encourage private investment but to keep a tight
control on the credit supply. The detailed provisions are in essence the same
as described in the Second Agricultural Credit Project. Only certain ratios
have been altered to soften the system's rigidity. Beside BCT, a National
Credit Council under the chairmanship of the Minister of Finance operates as
advisory body on credit policy. It comprises representatives of various
ministries and the Banking Association.
3.03      An analysis of credit distribution shows that total availability
of credit through financial institutions was D 934 million (US$2,335 million)
at the end of 1978 of which BNT had a share of D 224 million (US$560 million)
or 24%. The agricultural portfolio accounted for only 31% of BNT's total
lending portfolio. Interest rates for investments in the non-agricultural
sectors vary greatly; they are, for example, 4.5%-8.75% for housing construc-
tion, 9% for industry and 9.5%-10.5% for tourism.
B. Agricultural Credit Sources
3.04      General.  Agriculture has been and will remain one of the most
important sectors in the Tunisian economy (para. 2.01). Tunisian development
priorities in agriculture as expressed in the Fifth Development Plan have



- 12 -
necessitated massive investments in agriculture and the outlook for develop-
ment objectives formulated for the Sixth Development Plan (paras 2.11-2.19)
confirms that increased investments financed primarily through agricultural
credit will be required. Planning and resource allocation for agricultural
credit are the responsibility of the Planning Departments of MOA and BNT. The
Consultative Committee on Agricultural Credit Incentives (CCCEA) comprising
representatives of both BNT and MOA advises the Government on agricultural
credit policies.
3.05      Short-Term Credit is provided by BNT through its own branch network,
the CLCMs, the Societes de Caution Mutuelle (SCMs) and the Irrigation Authori-
ties (offices). The funds used are BNT's own resources, rediscount facili-
ties of BCT and various bilateral sources such as the Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA) and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). The CLCMs made short-term subloans to small farmers
under individual guarantees. Their number was reduced from 43 in 1977 to 17
in 1979. Their role as channels for short-term credit is slowly taken over by
the rapidly expanding SCMs which guarantee the short-term subloans received by
their members from BNT. In 1978 BNT made about 10,800 subloans for seasonal
credit to SCM members totalling D 4.9 million (US$12.3 million) and about
3,700 subloans for D 9.9 million (US$24.8 million) to other individual farmers
and cooperatives. About 7,000 subloans for D 2.1 million (US$5.3 million)
were made from CLCM and bilateral resources. Recovery rates are low on BNT
subloans granted out of externally provided resources for which BNT does not
assume full or part of the risk. They reach 94% for subloans made from BNT's
own resources.
3.06      Medium- and Long-Term Investment Credit.  There are a number of
different sources for medium- and long-term investment credit, the three most
important being the Special Fund for Agricultural Development (FOSDA), the
Special Fund for the Encouragement of Fishery Investments (FOSEP) and Bank
Group lending. For FOSDA and FOSEP, BNT is the managing agency as it is for
IDA funds obtained through the Government; whereas it is direct borrower for
Bank loan funds. Since 1969 BNT has granted nearly 85,000 medium- and long-
term subloans, 7,500 to 11,000 annually over the past few years. About 75% of
these are medium-term subloans, the rest long-term subloans.
3.07      Relatively few investment subloans are financed from BNT's own
resources although the number has increased in the last two years. BNT's
by-laws do not permit the use of its own funds to make long-term subloans
for periods exceeding 7 years which are often necessary for tree crop estab-
lishment and irrigation works. Therefore, its lending is restricted to
medium-term subloans to commercial farmers mainly for mechanization and light
trucks.
3.08      FOSDA, the funds of which are exclusively channelled through BNT,
receives annual governmental budgetary allocations and all repayments and
interest payments flow back into BNT's special account. Lending conditions
were revised in 1977 and are laid down in various laws and decrees which
determine the type of investment eligible for Government grants, the preferen-
tial conditions, the rates of interest and the maturities and grace periods.
For FOSDA subloans the repayment risk is borne fully by the state budget. BNT



- 13 -
receives a commission for its management of the portfolio of 2% of all amounts
outstanding at the end of the year. Since 1977, changes in the eligibility
criteria have largely excluded commercial farmers from the Government's subsidy
scheme. Under FOSDA about 5,000 to 8,000 medium-term subloans and about 2,000
to 3,000 long-term subloans are approved annually. Since FOSDA funds are
allocated annually from the Government budget, occasionally it happens that
funds are exhausted toward the end of the year and loan applicants have to
wait for new allocations in the following year.
3.09      BNT has been the managing agency or the indirect beneficiary for a
number of IDA Credits/Bank Loans with various target beneficiary groups (paras.
4.01-4.09). Depending on the size and type of beneficiaries (small, medium or
commercial farmers, production cooperatives or agroindustry investors), BNT's
risk assumption for the amounts outstanding differed from 10 to 100%.
3.10      Recovery Rates for investment credit are also unequal.  Large unpaid
credit balances exist in FOSDA lending because (i) farmers are frequently
under the impression that FOSDA funds are Government grants in their entirety;
(ii) consecutive periods of drought resulted in bad harvests and reduction of
farm income from which debt service would have to be paid; (iii) insufficient
technical and credit extension service from MOA's extension service; and (iv)
insufficient collection efforts by BNT because there is no default risk for
BNT. BNT gets a commission on the amounts outstanding at the end of each
financial year which is counterproductive to the collection efforts. The
figures for the various sources of investment credit are as follows:
Recovery Rate        as of
Source of Funds                              Dec. 31, 1978    Nov. 30, 1979
BNT                                                78                  61
FOSDA                                              52                  53
FOSEP                                              31                  41
Bank Loan/Credit 779/263-TUN                       82                  66
Bank Loan 1340 TUN                                 78                 41
The amount overdue under Bank Loan 1340-TUN contains a large installment
due by a Government-owned agriculture services company, SONAMO. Government
has participated in a capital increase of SONAMO which will enable reimburse-
ment to BNT of overdue debts by June 15, 1980. This will improve the recovery
rate to 73%. It is expected that the recovery rate will be further improved
by better subloan supervision by BNT (para. 6.10). Government and BNT have
agreed to take all necessary measures to improve the recovery rate to 85% by
May 31, 1982.
C. BNT: Background, Organization and Personnel
3.11      BNT was created in 1959 as National Agricultural Bank to provide
agricultural credit and to perform normal banking and financial operations.
In 1969 it was renamed National Bank of Tunisia and its charter was altered



- 14 -
to allow for greater diversity of its banking activities.  Its capital is
D 6 million (US$15 million) of which about 70% is held by the Government or
Government-controlled companies. It is administered by a Board of Directors
of Il members. In terms of total assets BNT is second in the country. In
terms of density of its branch network, it is first with 58 full fledged
branch offices. Additionally, 17 CLCMs are administered by BNT.
3.12      BNT's staff has increased with the rapid development, from 90 in
1959 to 1,168 at the end of 1978. About 40% work in the branches. The number
of university graduates among the staff has grown considerably to over 100,
mostly economists.  In comparison the recruitment of agriculturalists and
agricultural technicians has lagged behind the development of agricultural
activities and only in recent years has BNT recognized the need to have
professional agricultural staff in its agencies and headquarters.
3.13      BNT's organization is well adapted to the various banking activities
and is frequently modified in accordance with its rapid growth. The most
recent changes are the introduction of a General Comptroller overseeing
inspection, organization and training, but more importantly the separation of
agricultural credit from the other lending activities in 1978. The Agricul-
tural Credit Department has now three Divisions:
(a)  Division I which receives subloan requests, reviews them, undertakes
the creditworthiness examination, approves or rejects them or makes
the appropriate recommendation to BNT management, and prepares the
subloan contracts. This division is supported by Divisions II and
III. Its current staff, including administrative personnel, is 26.
(b)  Division II which obtains the legal securities, handles subloan
administration and recoveries, and has currently a staff of 38.
(c)  Division III which is responsible for all technical aspects in
connection with appraisal work, special studies and monitoring, and
has currently 6 professional and 3 administrative staff.
Outside BNT headquarters, agricultural technicians are presently employed
in 10 branches with agricultural activities. However, functions are too
heavily centralized (paras. 3.17-3.24) and more agricultural staff would be
needed especially in Division III, the Technical Division, and the branches to
cope with all aspects of agricultural lending in an efficient way and to help
improve subloan recovery.
D. Internal Control, Accounting and Auditing
3.14      BNT has five levels of control:  (i) BCT supervision; (ii) control
of two financial comptrollers (Commissaires aux comptes) designated by the
shareholders; (iii) control of a financial comptroller appointed by the
Government; (iv) audit by independent auditors; and (v) internal inspection



- 15 -
which was recently reorganized by creating the position of a General Comp-
troller in charge of an inspection department for headquarters, an inspection
department for agencies, and a department for budgeting, studies, organization
and training.
3.15      BNT's accounting system is computerized but since 1978 the computer
is running at capacity and a new system of a later generation is on order.
Lack of computer capacity is one of the reasons why a cost accounting system
has not yet been introduced with the result that no breakdown of administra-
tive cost by type of lending or group of subloan beneficiaries is available.
The physical separation of agricultural from commercial lending is not
reflected in the accounting system. This makes it impossible to identify
activities which are not profitable. One other peculiarity deserves to be
mentioned. In accounting for interest, BNT is not using the usual accrual
system which reflects the interest earned prorated as at the year's end but
makes entries only when interests are actually received. This system is
chosen by BNT and other banks in Tunisia with the agreement of BCT because tax
laws do not allow tax deductible provisions on interest accrued. The result
îs that the income indicated in the income statement is usually slightly
understated.
3.16      The quality of the independent audit undertaken by a Tunisian
auditing company with the cooperation of Coopers and Lybrand has improved
in recent years. The audit includes also management recommendations which
are taken into consideration as deemed appropriate by BNT in its following
fiscal years.
E. Lending Procedures
Appraisal and Approval
3.17      BNT disposes of very diversified resources which can be classified
in three groups, namely, BNT's own resources including deposits, budgetary
Government funds and long-term borrowings of either BNT or the Government.
The latter two categories are combined in BNT's financial statements under the
heading "special funds". Lending procedures vary for each of these different
resources and for each group of beneficiaries and are very complex.
3.18      The principal resources for investment subloans to small and medium
farmers are FOSDA and Bank funds. The main differences in lending procedures
are the following: (i) in using Bank funds, small and medium farmers are
defined since 1977 by an income criLerion whereas farm size is used as cri-
terion for the allocation of concessionary budgetary funds. (ii) The decision
as to which fund ought to be used was previously made in BNT headquarters, but
since 1979 BNT has authorized 12 branch managers to make these decisions
locally. Since BNT assumes part of the risk in Bank-funded subloans but no
risk in FOSDA-funded subloans, it is only natural that the creditworthiness
study done by BNT for all prospective borrowers is the deciding factor in the



- 16 -
decision of which fund to use.  (iii) Due to the large number of applications
received, appraisal of applications for the group of small and medium farmers
is done by extension agents of the CRDAs. Until 1979 two different sets of
appraisal forms were used, a form for Bank-funded subloans developed by BNT
and aimed at a proper investment analysis and a form developed by MOA which
contained only general information on the applicant's farm operation and the
planned investment. Since the beginning of 1979 BNT's form is uniformly used
for all credit applicants. However, the appraisal form is too elaborate for
small investments and will be simplified (para. 6.08). Furthermore, the
extension agents belonging to the CRDAs lack training in agricultural credit
procedures as well as motivation. Consequently the forms are not completed
satisfactorily and BNT's Technical Service has to undertake a time consuming
review. (iv) Decision on subloan approval which includes decision on alloca-
tion of Government grants is taken at various levels; the Regional Credit
Committee under CRDA with one BNT representative for FOSDA subloans up to
D 3,000 (US$7,500), the Central Credit Committee in MOA also with one BNT
representative for FOSDA subloans exceeding D 3,000 and at BNT headquarters
in Tunis for Bank-funded subloans.
3.19      Procedures for subloans to small farmers using other funds, for
example, USAID funds or other bilateral aid funds, are similar to the ones
described above but involve in each case different decision making bodies.
One important principle has been maintained consistently: BNT decides on
subloan approval if its own funds are involved or if it assumes all or part of
the risk.
3.20      For short-term seasonal credit lending procedures in general are
adequate. Subloan size is determined by lending norms which vary for each
crop and are reviewed annually and adapted to rising costs. For subloans to
SCM members, decisions are taken by the Regional Credit Committee. The BNT
branch managers have the authority to grant short-term credit to individual
farmers up to 120% of the preceding year's amount if there are no overdue
amounts. For new clients and clients with arrears subloan approval is
referred to headquarters.
3.21      The establishment of guarantees is done centrally in Tunis.  These
range from liens and chattel mortgages for short- and medium-term subloans
to mortgages on land for long-term subloans. The fact that many borrowers
have no formal land titles is a great obstacle in making long-term subloans.
BNT accepts certificates of possession but even these are frequently missing.
3.22      As a consequence of the greatly varying appraisal and approval
procedures and the heavy centralization of functions: (i) the quality of
appraisal suffers which may lead to wrong investment decisions and as a result
to unsatisfactory reimbursement; (ii) the time required between deposit of
subloan application and subloan disbursement is in many cases excessive; three
to five months are normal. These organizational issues are addressed in this
Project.



- 17 -
Recovery Procedures
3.23      BNT's recovery procedures are also centralized.  Shortly before
maturity dates computer processed, notices are mailed to each client. Personal
contacts are not normal and are limited to a small number of farmers who have
a checking account with BNT. In case of non-payment, reminders are sent from
Tunis. After a certain period the file is transferred to the Disputed Claims
Service where legal proceedings are initiated.
3.24      In summary it can be said that collection efforts for BNT-funded
subloans for which BNT assumes the risk are better than those for other
funds and this results in higher recovery rates. In general, repayment
performance of farmers has been low in recent years for the following reasons:
(i) 1977 and 1978 were years with bad harvests because in several regions
drought conditions prevailed. The harvest of 1979 was better, but still below
average and it will take at least two years with good harvests to recover a
larger part of the overdue amounts; (ii) a number of farmers have received
loans from the Rural Development Program, a special fund administered by the
Ministry of Planning for development projects in rural areas, and have regarded
these as grants rather than as loans because they are hardly ever reclaimed.
As a consequence farmers have started to regard BNT subloans also as grants;
(iii) the lack of personal contact with the farmers by BNT personnel; (iv) the
lack of an efficient extension service with periodic and regular farm visits
by extension agents who could participate in motivating the farmers to pay
their debts as well as ensuring that the loan funds are applied in the most
effective way. The issues indicated under (iii) and (iv) above, are addressed
in this Project.
F. Resources
3.25      BNT's total resources have grown at an average rate of 21% per annum
over the last five years. As at December 31, 1978, they amounted to D 264.3
million (US$660.8) of which about 70% were short-term resources (deposits,
short-term borrowings) and 30% long-term resources (22% borrowings and 8%
equity and reserves). Sight and term deposits of BNT have grown at a slightly
faster rate of 23.5% per annum than total resources.
3.26      BNT's capital was increased in 1977 by D 0.4 million and in 1978
by another D 1.6 million to D 6 million (US$15 million). Reserves have also
been increased annually but have not kept pace with the rate of increase of
capital. Total equity including reserves and provisions is D 19.7 million
(US$49.3 million) or 7.5% of total resources. It must be kept in mind, how-
ever, that the special funds made available by Government to finance agricul-
tural development can be considered as funds similar to equity because for all
practical purposes, they remain at BNT's disposal for continuous relending to
agriculture.



- 18 -
3.27      BNT's Borrowings and Special Funds.  BNT's long-term resources,
of D 58.3 million (US$145.8), consist of: funds for which BNT itself is the
borrower, such as the First and the Second Agricultural Credit Projects; funds
from multilateral or bilateral aid projects channeled by the Government to
BNT, and budgetary funds. The principal amounts outstanding as of December 31,
1978 were as follows:
D'OOO       US$'Oo
Bank Loans/Credits                                       7,520        18,800
Bilateral funds                                         10,611        26,528
FOSDA                                                   26,822        67,055
FOSEP                                                    8,658        21,645
Others                                                   4,740        11,850
58,351      145,878
3.28      At the end of 1979 BNT had not yet drawn funds from Loan 1601-TUN
(Rural Roads Project) from which it will receive US$4.8 million for small
scale agroindustry investments in the zones of influence of the Project (para.
4.09). Additionally, US$9.8 million will be available under the Second
Fisheries Project (Loan 1746-TUN) for financing of fishing boats.
3.29      Rediscount Facilities.  Other resources at BNT's disposal are redis-
count facilities granted by BCT. As of December 31, 1978, D 35.4 million
(US$88.5 million) had been used.
G. Financial Position and Structure
General Situation
3.30      BNT's profitability has slightly deteriorated over the last few
years. While gross income has had a growth rate of 22.8% per annum in the
last five years, net income after taxes grew only by an annual rate of 12.3%
per annum. This is mainly due to the fact that the cost of resources has
risen much faster, at an annual rate of 41.4%. The reason for this is that
interest rates for BNT's long-term borrowings are continually increasing and
the blend in BNT's resources of Government funds and capital, both at no
cost to BNT, and borrowed funds is slowly changing. Cost of total average
resources available to BNT for short-term, medium-term and long-term lending
was 2.8% in 1978 as compared to 2.2% in 1977. Provisions for bad debts have
grown at an annual rate of 7.5% only, much slower than would be expected by
comparison with the impressive growth rate of BNT's total lending. In accord-
ance with the auditor's recommendation, BNT allocated D 1 million (US$2.5
million) to provisions for bad debts and another D 260,000 (US$650,000) to the
extraordinary reserve for various risks. While personnel costs have grown in
absolute terms from D 2.1 million (US$5.3 million) in 1975 to D 3.3 million
(US$8.3 million) in 1978, the annual growth rate was kept slightly lower than



- 19 -
the growth rate of interest income. Expressed in percent of total average
resources, in 1978 personnel cost amounted to 1.3%, other administrative cost
to 0.6%, provisions to 0.4% and income tax to 0.6%. Interest and commissions
received amounted to 6.4% of total average resources which left a profit
margin of 1.3% before tax and 0.7% after tax. BNT has, in general, complied
with BCT's financial ratios which are calculated by BNT monthly. Small
deviations below the norms are corrected immediately. The most important
ratio prescribes that the aggregate of capital and reserve must not be less
than 10% of sight and term deposits provided by individual depositors. The
debt: equity ratio is calculated to be about 4.6:1 including special Govern-
ment funds.
Lending for Agricultural Investment
3.31      In view of BNT's role as the most important source of institutional
credit, it is necessary to look at the profitability of the agricultural
lending operations and especially of the lending program for medium- and
long-term investment. On the income side in 1978 only 12.2% of all income or
15.8% of interest and commissions received stemmed from short-, medium- and
long-term lending in agriculture. By contrast the agricultural portfolio at
the end of 1978 accounted for about 70% of the total portfolio. This reflects
the arrangement between BNT and Government that for Government budgetary funds
(FOSDA and FOSEP) interest paid to BNT by the ultimate beneficiaries is not
considered as income, but added to the amounts available for relending and a
handling charge or commission is paid by Government to BNT to cover operating
costs. The amount of interest and commissions received from the agricultural
portfolio represented about 3.0% of total average resources employed in BNT's
agriculture lending. The corresponding figure of interest and commissions
received from the medium- and long-term portfolio in comparison to the average
medium- and long-term resources is 2.6%.
3.32      A calculation of the interest rate margin for agriculture lending
would require establishment of a cost accounting system to identify all
charges by type of banking activity. This has not yet been introduced.
Mission estimates show that in relation to total average resources employed
in medium- and long-term lending in 1978 the costs were as follows: (i) cost
of resources 0.4%; (ii) personnel cost 0.9%; and (iii) administrative cost,
taxes and provisions 1.0%. This has left an estimated net profit from these
lending operations of 0.3% compared with a 0.7% profit margin derived from all
BNT activities. Cost of resources for medium- and long-term lending is low
because (i) Government funds are available at no cost to BNT, and (ii) for
certain special funds such as BNT's long-term borrowings from the Bank under
the Second Agricultural Credit Project, Government reimburses BNT for any
difference between interest received from subborrowers and interest and
commitment fee paid to the Bank. Staff for agricultural lending operations
would need reinforcement which would lead to an increase in the percentage
figure for personnel cost. For Government-funded subloans BNT does not assume
any default risk and for Bank-funded subloans to small and medium farmers only
part of the risk. Allocation to provisions for default risks in agricultural
lending in 1978 was an estimated 0.4% of average resources employed in agricul-
ture and 0.2% of average medium- and long-term resources. It must be kept in



- 20 -
mind, however, that BNT assumes the default risk for only about 20% of the
medium- and long-term portfolio so that the percentage of provisions to
average medium- and long-term resources for which BNT assumes risk would
increase to 1.2%. An annual allocation to provisions of about 1% on that
portion of subloans for which BNT assumes the default risk would be adequate.
H. Interest Rates
3.33      The issue of interest rates in agricultural lending has been a
matter of concern and discussion during the whole period of the Bank's collab-
oration with the Tunisian Government and BNT. The first Loan Agreement (779-
TUN) contained a convenant to the effect that interest rates charged by BNT on
subloans would be at least 8% per annum and would not be lowered without prior
Bank approval. As a transitory step to soften the impact on farmers of the
interest rate increase from 4% to 8%, it was, however, agreed that the Govern-
ment would grant participating farmers a discount of 2% on interest. This
discount was maintained throughout the life of the First Project for all
Project subloans fixing effectively the interest rate at 6% instead of 8%, an
increase by 2% over the pre-Project period. Interest rates for FOSDA subloans
continued to be at lower levels than Bank-funded subloans which led to a
competition for funds during the entire implementation period. Further
progress in the interest rate issue was made during negotiations of the Second
Agricultural Credit Project in 1976. At that time agreement was reached that
interest rates for all Project subloans to farmers and to agroindustry
investors should be essentially identical to those funded by FOSDA funds. The
interest rates were then determined to be 6% for small and medium farmers up
to a net farm income of D 600 (US$1,500) in 1976 prices, 7% for farmers above
this income level and 8% for agroindustry lending. These rates were determined
within the framework of the existing rates, the repayment capacity of the
investors, the incentives that Government wanted to give to the agriculture
sector, and the relatively low level of inflation (about 6%) prevailing in
Tunisia at the time of the approval of the Loan.
3.34      At present, BNT's interest rate for short-term agricultural lending
is 6% per annum. BNT collects interest on short-term loans in advance by
deduction from the amounts to be disbursed. At an average loan maturity
of 5 months this brings the effective interest rate to about 6.1%. The
weighted average interest rate for medium- and long-term agricultural invest-
ment loans including agroindustries and outstanding as of December 31, 1978 is
estimated to be 6.1% per annum. The same weighted average interest rate for
the Second Agricultural Credit Project financed by the Bank would be 6.7% if
the structure of subloans foreseen under this Project materializes at Project
completion. It is expected that with the increased involvement of BNT in
medium-term lending to large farmers and agroindustry investors from its own
resources, the weighted average interest rate would reach about 6.3% by the
end of 1980. A comparison between the inflation rate as shown by the consumer
price index and the weighted average interest rate presents itself as follows:



- 21 -
Average
1979      1976-   1977-    1980
1976   1977  1978 (Estimated)  1978    1979  (Projected)
Inflation rate /a
based on consumer
price index            5.4      6.7   5.4      7.5       5.8      6.5        7.0
Weighted average
interest rate for
medium- and long-
term subloans          n.a.    n.a.  6.1       6.2        -        -         6.3
/a   For 1976 and 1977, the consumer price index for Tunis is used, for 1978
and 1979 the index covers the whole of Tunisia.
I.  Summary of Issues Related to Agricultural Credit
3.35      It follows frow the foregoing that problems still exist which need
improvement. They can be summarized as follows: (i) many farmers are not
properly informed about the possibilities of obtaining agricultural credit;
(ii) toward the end of the financial year it happens that budgetary funds
are exhausted and the approval of applications is delayed for months until
new funds are available; (iii) there is no regionalized planning for credit
disbursement which leads to regional imbalances; (iv) for the various funds
a multiplicity of lending procedures exist which is manifest in different
appraisal procedures and various systems of decision making; (v) due to
insufficient qualified agricultural personnel, BNT's whole subloan processing
system is heavily centralized and loan supervision from disbursement to repay-
ment is inadequate which leads to unsatisfactory recovery rates; (vi) MOA's
regional extension service is not geared toward rendering special services to
credit beneficiaries. Extension agents are speciaiized in various technical
subjects but have no training in agricultural credit procedures; and (vii)
there is no mechanism to review periodically the adequacy of agricultural
interest rates within the framework of current market rates.
3.36      This Project addresses all these issues and recommends early actions
to help solve them. However, it will take considerable time to change farmers'
attitudes and to introduce organizational changes.



- 22 -
IV. PREVIOUS BANK AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
PROJECTS IN TUNISIA
A. The Cooperative Farms Project (Loan 484/Credit 99-TUN)
4.01      The Tunisia Cooperative Farms Project, signed in February 1967,
provided US$18 million (US$12 million Loan and US$6 million Credit) for the
development of agricultural production cooperatives in Northern Tunisia.
The Project was part of a 10-year national program to implement agrarian
reform and to consolidate cooperative farming.  Project implementation was
slow initially due to technical, managerial and financial difficulties.
Following major changes in Tunisia's agricultural policy in 1969, the original
Project was substantially revised in 1970 and an amount of US$8.8 million was
cancelled. The Project was completed by the end of 1973. The Bank's PPAR No.
968 of J-nuary 1976 confirms that most of the Project objectives, namely,
productivity, production, worker incomes and institutional viability, were
attained. Two other objectives, namely, elimination of subsistence farming
and incorporation of private landowners into production cooperatives had to be
abandoned.
B. The First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 779/Credit 263-TUN)
4.02      The Bank's First Agricultural Credit Project which became effective
in 1971 provided US$8.0 million to finance part of BNT's lending for; on-farm
investments for mechanization of grain production for 636 farm families,
owning approximately 275,000 ha; dairy development for 83 farmers; and date
palm plantations. It provided technical assistance for BNT's Credit Division.
In 1974, amendments to the Loan and Credit Agreements were made to enlarge the
Project scope and include an agroindustrial component for dairy products.
The Loan/Credit was fully disbursed by July 1978, thirty-four months after the
original Closing Date. The economic rate of return of the Project is over 30%
compared to 22% at appraisal, primarily due to the increased rate of return
for the date palm plantations and the addition of a milk plant component. The
issue of interest rates to farmers was a matter of concern and discussion
during most of Project implementation. It finally resulted in an agreement
under the Second Agricultural Credit Project, by which uniformity of lending
terms for agriculture in Tunisia was achieved. The Government enacted legis-
lation in 1977 by which the lending terms are no longer directed by the
sources of funds, but primarily by the net farm income; and with respect to
grace and maturity periods, by the nature of the investments.
4.03      The PPAR No. 2497 for this Project was issued in May 1979.  It
brought out two points of special interest, namely, mechanization had not
yielded all the benefits expected; and the Bank needs to pay closer
attention to the implementation of agroindustrial Project components to
avoid major cost overruns.



- 23 -
C. The Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1340-TUN)
4.04       In 1976 the Bank made a loan of US$12 million to BNT to finance sub-
loans to (i) small and medium farms for general farm development, SONAMO and
service cooperatives for farm equipment (category 1); (ii) commercial farmers
(category 2); (iii) Farmer Associations for Joint Farm Development (SCMVs) for
date palm plantations (category 3); and (iv) agroindustry investors (category
4). The aim of the Project is: to increase agricultural production; to
facilitate its marketing; and to improve the income of farmers. BNT is the
executing agency for the Project, of which the cost (in 1975 prices) is D 11
million (US$26.3 million) with a foreign exchange component of about 45%. The
extension services of MOA appraise subloan applications from small and medium
farmers.
4.05      The Project started in July 1977, later than planned because of
delays exîerienced by BNT in preparing and adopting sublending procedures.
These delays further reduced the slow pace of appraisal of subloan applicat-
ions which resulted from the responsible MOA extension agents being unfamiliar
with both the new procedures and the appraisal questionnaire designed by BNT.
Consequently, by the end of September 1978, no subloan had been made in
category 1, despite the receipt of 410 individual applications. Subloans had
already been granted under categories 2 and 4, however.
4.06      Applications were appraised and processed more quickly towards the
end of 1978 and still more so in 1979 and the first three months of 1980.
This resulted in 1,006 subloans being made by March 31, 1980; 618 for small
and medium farmers, one for SONAMO, one for a service cooperative, 374 for
commercial farmers and 12 for agroindustry investors. At March 31, 1980 Bank
funds committed totalled US$9.4 million. At the same date 52% of the loan
funds were disbursed. No subloans have been made as yet under category 3
for the establishment of date palm plantations by SCMVs, as a result of
organizational and financial difficulties often encountered by some of these
organizations. In view of the potential important role of the SCMVS for the
development of new land in the south Government has decided to speed up action
for the SCMVs which have sound management and financial status. It has in
this respect approved recently the investment plans for six of them. This
will most likely result in committing some of the funds provided for this type
of subborrowers under the Loan. In the light of the recent acceleration of
the pace at which subloans are being made, it is expected that all loan funds
will be disbursed by the end of 1980 as planned.
4.07      The Loan Agreement contains a covenant that BNT establish a system
to monitor the benefits from subloans made under the Project. This system was
initially set up in 1978 for a representative sample of about 20 commercial
farmers. It met difficulties during its implementation because farmers are
reluctant to participate in the proposed scheme and because BNT had encountered
staffing problems. Data so far collected have not been analyzed. BNT intends
to review existing and devise new monitoring procedures that would be extended
to a number of small farmer beneficiaries. Thus, in the absence of adequate
data, it has not been possible to determine the impact of the Project in terms
of better crop yields and improved farm incomes.



- 24 -
4.08      The principal Project achievements already identified are mostly
institutional. They include: (i) the unification of lending terms and
conditions in agriculture; (ii) an improvement of the organizational structure
through the separation of agricultural credit from other BNT credit operations
within BNT and a recent strengthening of BNT's Agricultural Credit Depart-
ment and its Technical Division; (iii) the extension of credit to small and
medium farmers; (iv) MOA's decision to extend the appraisal procedure of
subloans under the Project to subloans funded by Government resources; and (v)
the assumption by BNT of a minimum risk for small and medium farmers.
4.09      From the Second Agricultural Credit Project, subloans for agricul-
tural investments are also made to farmers in the zones of influence of the
Rural Roads Project (Loan 1601-TUN). The Rural Roads Project is part of a
program to improve the Tunisian rural roads network in order to help increase
agricultural production and to raise the farmers' standards of living.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
5.01      The Project's main objective is to increase agricultural production
and thus contribute to self-sufficiency in foodstuffs, the principal goal
expressed in the last two Tunisian Development Plans. The Project also
emphasizes improving the income of small and medium farmers by allocating
about 45% of the Project funds including contingencies to them directly and
as members of production cooperatives. It also aims at a greater impact of
agricultural credit by establishing a credit extension service in which MOA
and BNT would share responsibilities (paras. 6.02-6.10).
B. Description
5.02      The Project would finance part of BNT's projected lending program
for the years 1981-1983. The Project figures are based on past experience
and expected trends with Bank-financed subloans. They also incorporate the
complementary agricultural investments needed for farmers living in the zones
of influence of the Rural Roads Project (para. 4.09), which needs have now
been reassessed and would absorb about 30% of Project investments. The
Project would include on-farm investments for overall farm development,
and grain, livestock, vegetable, forage and fruit production, to: (i) small
and medium farmers; (ii) production cooperatives; and (iii) commercial
farmers. For service cooperatives, the Project would finance farm machinery
and other equipment to be leased to its members. Financing of agroindustry
investments such as processing facilities, coldstores, etc. would also be
included.



- 25 -
5.03      Small and Medium Farmers (Part A).  This component would finance all
types of agricultural investments for all categories of small and medium
farms, including those producing dairy and meat products, fruit, vegetable,
grains, pulses and industrial crops. Farmers would qualify for subloans under
this category if the preinvestment value of their annual farm production would
not exceed D 2,000 (US$5,000) expressed in 1980 prices. This value corresponds
approximately to a net annual farm income of D 800 (US$2,000). Investments
would consist mainly of livestock (pure breed and improved breed), stables,
draft animals, wells, pumps, establishment of small orchards or forage, and
small equipment. Investments in tractors, harvesters and transport equipment
would be financed under this category only in cases of joint ownership which
would warrant full utilization of the equipment by reaching minimum aggregate
farm sizes to be determined by BNT. An applicant for a subloan for a tractor
would also be eligible if it is proved that he has established custom work
contracts. About 21% of the Project cost (US$12.8 million out of US$60.8
million) would be in this category. The number of beneficiaries is expected
to be about 2,250.
5.04      Production Cooperatives (Part B).  This component would finance
investments by production cooperatives, the individual members of which
have an average income of D 500 (US$1,250),below the relative poverty income
level for a family of six in Tunisia (US$1,380). Investments would be made
for farm mechanization and transport equipment, pure-bred livestock, stables,
plantations, wells, irrigation equipment and establishment of forage. Invest-
ments would be made and the equipment obtained would be managed by the produc-
tion cooperative. About 24% of the Project cost (US$14.3 million out of
US$60.8 million) in this category would be distributed among 170 UCPs.
5.05      Service Cooperatives (Part C).  This component would finance invest-
ments by service cooperatives 1/ which would contribute to the production
intensification of its members. Investments would be for tractors, tractor
accessories, harvesters or other large equipment which are not profitable or
possible for a single farmer to make. Under this category also storage
buildings and packing stations would be included which would not contain a
processing action and thus fall into the agroindustry component. About 5% of
the Project Cost (US$3.2 million out of US$60.8 million) in this category
would be divided among 25 cooperatives.
5.06      Commercial Farmers (Part D).  This component would finance farmers
with a net preinvestment annual value of farm production exceeding D 2,000
(US$5,000). Investments would be for general farm development and would
consist mainly of cattle, sheep, tractors, tractor accessories, combine
1/   A service cooperative is a collection of small farmers who have grouped
themselves to facilitate their farming activities usually by the provi-
sion of equipment or input distribution or collection and packaging of
produce. Under the Second Agricultural Credit Project, one subloan to
a service cooperative has been made, but more applications are being
appraised.



- 26 -
harvesters, stables, farm buildings, light trucks, wells, pumps, irrigation
equipment, plantations, forage crop establishment, small equipment and land
improvement. About 33% of Project Costs (US$20.3 million out of US$60.8
million) would be in this category. The number of beneficiaries is expected
to be 900.
5.07      Agroindustry (Part E).  This category would finance investment
in agroindustry aimed at processing Tunisian agricultural products. The
component is intended to contribute to employment demands in rural areas and
to provide outlets for agricultural products. Investors would be in the
private sector but might also be production or service cooperatives in order
to permit the farm sector to receive a large share of Project benefits.
Investments would be made for the development of new subsectors or to fill
certain market segments in the traditional subsectors (para. 2.22). The type
of investments involved could be fruit and vegetable processing, coldstores,
milk collection and pasturization, meat processing and production of animal
feed. About 14% of total Project cost (US$8.5 million out of US$60.8 million)
would be intended for this category and would go to about 20 investors.
C. Cost Estimates
5.08      The total Project cost is estimated to be D 24.3 million (US$60.8
million) including a foreign exchange component of D 11.9 million (US$29.9
million) or about 49%. The cost estimates are expressed in projected 1980
prices. Physical contingencies for civil works of 10% are added. Price
contingencies for the foreign exchange component have been estimated to be
10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% for 1983. Price contingencies
for local costs are based on an expected annual inflation rate of 7%. Price
contingencies amount to 18% of the total base cost. Taxes and duties esti-
mated at D 3.8 million (US$9.5 million) and representing 16% of total Project
costs are included in the cost estimates and will be funded by subborrowers or
Government agencies. Details of cost estimates are given in Annex 1 and are
summarized below.



- 27 -
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total         Exchange
____---- (D'OOO)    -- -         ------  (US$'000) -------            (%)
1.  Small and Medium Farmers
-  Farm equipment                        125         103        228        313         257        570        45
-  Livestock and cow sheds               824         327      1,151      2,060        817       2,877        29
-  Forage establishment                  266         356        622        665        890       1,555        55
- Shallow wells and
-   irrigation equipment                 847         879      1,726      2,117      2,198      4,315         51
-  Tree crop establishment               598          75        673      1,495        188      1,683         il
Subtotal                         2,660       1,740      4,400      6,650      4,350    11,000          39
2. Production Cooperatives
-  Tractors and farm machinery         1,160      1,721      2,881       2,900      4,303      7,203         60
-  Livestock and cow sheds               450        181         631      1,125        453      1,578         29
-  Forage establishment                  103         127        230        258        317         575        55
-  Aviculture                             52          63        115        130        157         287        55
- Wells and irrigation
equipment                            285        329        614         712        823      1,535        54
-  Tree crop establishment               268          35        303        670          88        758        12
Subtotal                         2,318       2,456      4>774      5,795      6,141    11,936          51
3. Service Cooperatives
-  Tractors and farm machinery           390         584        974        975      1,460      2,435         60
-  Aviculture                             45          54         99        113         135        248        55
Subtotal                            435        638      1,073      1,088      1,595       2,683        59
4. Commercial Farmers
-  Tractors and farm machinery         2,210      3,313       5,523      5,525      8,283    13,808          60
-  Livestock and cow sheds               175          69        244        437        173         610        29
-  Forage establishment                   60          74        134        150        185         335        55
-  Aviculture                            180         219        399        450        548       -.998        55
- Wells and irrigation
equipment                             94         97        191         235        243        478        51
-  Tree crop establishment               283          38        321        708          95        803        12
Subtotal                         3,002       3,810      6,812      7,505      9,526    17,032          56
5. Agroindustry
-  Civil works                           607         107        714      1,518        267      1,785         15
-  Equipment                             570         856      1,426      1,425      2,140       3,565        60
-  Miscellaneous                         142         143        285        355         358        713        50
-  Working capital                       428           -        428      1 070           -      1 070         -
Subtotal                         1,747       1,106      2,853      4,368       2,765      7,133        39
6. Incremental Personnel Cost
-  MOA/ACEUs                             260          -         260        650         -          650         -
-  BNT                                   236          -         236        590         -          590         -
Subtotal                            496         -         496      1,240          -       1,240         -
Base Cost                              10,660      9,746    20,406    26,648    24,370    51,018              48
Physical Contingencies                    187         152        339        467        380         847        45
Price Contingencies                     1,530      2,045       3,575      3,825      5,113      8,938         57
Grand Total                     12,377    11,943    24,320    30,940    29,463    60,803               49
Note: Differences due to rounding



- 28 -
D. Financing
5.09      The proposed Bank Loan of US$30 million will finance in full the
estimated foreign exchange cost of the Project. Financing will be shared in
the following amounts and proportions.
Goveroment   Government  BNT                 Total
Subborrowers   Subsidy   Loan      Own Funde    IBRD     Cost
% of       % of        % of        % of       % of
Invest-    Invest-     Invest-     Invest-    Invest-
Amount ment  Amount ment  Amount ment  Amount ment  Amount ment  Amount
----------------- ------------------  (US$ Million)  -----------------------------------__
Small and Medium farmers  2.5  20  1.9  15   0.7/a  6   2.4   19    5.3   41    12.8
Production cooperatives  1.4  10  2.9  2C    0.3/a  2    2.1  15    7.6   53    14.3
Service cooperatives  0.6  20     -   -      -    -    0.6  18   2.0  63    3.2
Coomercial farners    6.1  30     -    -     0.2/a  1    2.3  il   11.7   58    20.3
Agroindustries       2.5   30     -    -     -     -    2.6   30    3.4   40    8.5
Incremental Personnel Cost
- MOA/ACUs           -   -      0.9/b  100  -     -     -    -     -    -      0.9
- BNT                -   -      -    -      -     -    0.8    100  -    -      0.8
TOTAL                13.1  22   5.7    9    1.2    2   10.8  18   30.0  49   60.8/b
/a For subloans of more than seven years duration
/b   Project cost without taxes would be US$51.3
May 1980
5.10      BNT will be the borrower of the Bank Loan.  Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that Government would guarantee the Loan and bear the
foreign exchange risk. The Loan will be for a period of 14 years including a
four-year grace period, and will be at the interest rate prevailing at the
time of Board presentation. The Loan maturity and grace period are based on
projections of lending operations and subborrower repayments.
5.11      Subborrowers will finance about 22% of Project costs as their
equity contribution to investments. The percentage of this contribution will
vary in accordance with the type of subborrower and the type of investment.
It will be 30% for commercial farmers and agroindustry projects for all types
of investment, and up to 20% for service cooperatives, small and medium
farmers and production cooperatives.
5.12      Government subsidies channelled through BNT, will pay part of the
investments of small and medium fariners and production cooperatives. The
subsidy percentage to small and medium farmers will vary in accordance with
Government investment priorities from 10% for light agricultural equipment
to 65% for medicago pasture establishment. Production cooperatives will get
subsidies that are on average 5% higher than those for small and medium
farmers. The average subsidy for investments financed under the Project
is expected to be 15% for small and medium farmers and 20% for production
cooperatives (para. 6.11).



- 29 -
5.13      The Bank will finance an average of 41% of investments made by
small and medium farmers, 53% for production cooperatives, 63% for service
cooperatives, 58% for commercial farmers and 40% for agroindustry investors.
BNT will finance an average of 18% of investments in medium-term subloans
from its own resources. Government will contribute about 2% of investment
cost from budgetary funds to finance long-term investments (para. 3.07).
These funds will be made available to BNT for 14 years including four years
of grace period. They would be interest-free within the framework of the
interest compensation agreement between Government and BNT (para. 6.15).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government, before Loan
Effectiveness, would conclude an agreement with BNT which would adequately
reflect the above financing and guarantee arrangements.
E. Procurement
5.14      The range of goods to be financed under the Project is extremely
varied and is not suitable for bulk procurement. Contracts would be too small
to warrant international competitive bidding. Manufacturers of farm machinery
are well represented in Tunisia, competition is keen, prices are competitive
and service facilities are available. Therefore agricultural subborrowers
would purchase agricultural equipment of their choice through existing commer-
cial channels. Dairy farm development would require purchase of in-calf
heifers from state-owned agencies or private farms. In turn the state-owned
agencies undertake bulk procurement under ICB procedures. In the agroindustry
component the investment cost of an average size subproject would be about
D 160,000 (US$400,000) without working capital. Civil works would amount to
about D 50,000 (US$125,000) split up in about two contracts and equipment to
about D 110,000 (US$275,000) split up in about three contracts. Experience
with similar subprojects in the Second Agricultural Credit Project has shown
that for this order of magnitude, the most efficient and least-cost procure-
ment procedure is to let subborrowers use their normal procurement procedures,
i.e. obtain quotations from companies known to them and make their choice
under consideration of all relevant quality, price, after-sale service etc.
aspects. This procedure will also be followed in this Project. The total
value of all contracts under the agroindustry component including contingencies
but without working capital will be about D 2.8 million (US$7 million).
F. Disbursements
5.15      The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million is expected to be disbursed
over a period of three years, 1981-1983. The Loan will finance:



- 30 -
Cost
US$ million
1.   on-farm investments for small and
medium farmers;                              5.3  )
)
2.   on-farm investments for production                )
cooperatives;                               7.6  )
)    75% of amounts
3.   agricultural machinery and other                  )    disbursed by
agricultural investments for service              )    BNT
cooperatives;                               2.0  )
)
4.   on-farm investments for commercial                )
farmers;                                   11.7  )
)
5.   agroindustry investments;                    3.4  )
TOTAL                                      30.0
Disbursements for all categories except categories 1 and 4 will be made
against appropriate documentation to be forwarded to the Bank with each
withdrawal application. Disbursements in categories 1 and 4 will be made
against certified statements of expenditures by BNT. Documentation for the
statments of expenditures will not be sent to the Bank, but will be retained
by BNT for review by supervision missions. The audit of these statements on a
sample basis, will be included in BNT's annual audit of accounts. Bank
approval will be required for subloans (i) exceeding D 50,000 (US$125,000) to
production and service cooperatives; and (ii) exceeding D 150,000 (US$375,000)
tO agroindustry investors. Assurances in these respects were obtained during
negotiations. A disbursement schedule is in Annex II.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Execution
6.01      BNT will be the borrower of the Loan, and the executing agency.
It will expand its personnel in headquarters and branches, and streamline
lending procedures and organizational structure in accordance with the needs
of the growing lending activities in the agricultural sector.
6.02      In order to attain the overall Project objectives (para. 5.01) and
to facilitate access of small and medium farmers tO seasonal and investment
credit and insure a satisfactory recovery of subloans, a number of actions
will be taken by BNT and Government. The details of some of these actions
will depend upon a study to be carried out by a joint BNT/MOA group (para.
6.03). These actions include:



- 31 -
(a)  strengthening BNT's agricultural staff at headquarters and in the
branches (paras. 6.04, 6.05);
(b)  increasing CRDA's agricultural staff concerned with credit (para.
6.06);
(c)  improving coordination between BNT's branches and the CRDA's; and
(d)  streamlining of lending procedures (paras. 6.07-6.10).
6.03      Study Group.  A study group comprising two MOA/CRDA representatives
and two BNT representatives will be appointed to: (i) prepare job descriptions
for the staff of Agricultural Credit Units (ACU) required to be created within
the MOA (para. 6.06); (ii) streamline the subloan appraisal procedures (para.
6.08); (iii) develop guidelines for training programs for BNT and ACU agri-
cultural staff (para. 6.17). Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the study group members will be appointed by January 31, 1981 and that
their report and recommendations will be available to MOA, BNT and the Bank by
June 30, 1981.
B. Organization and Staffing in BNT and CRDAs
6.04      BNT.  At headquarters, BNT's Agricultural Credit  Department has
three divisions (para. 3.13). These divisions would be strengthened during
Project implementation as and when needed to cope with all tasks connected
with effective subloan processing and administration. Division III, the
Technical Division, will be responsible for (i) special feasibility studies,
special studies and determination of appropriate appraisal procedures and
criteria; (ii) on-farm appraisal and review of appraisal and supervision
work done by personnel of BNT branches and CRDAs; and (iii) monitoring systems.
The minimum staff in the Technical Division will be three agriculturalists/
agricultural credit specialists, one agroindustries engineer and seven agri-
cultural technicians. Divisions I and II would continue to operate as before
but under a more decentralized system (para. 6.09). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Technical Division will be staffed at the
above minimum numbers by June 30, 1981 and that it will thereafter be main-
tained at the appropriate strength.
6.05      Progressively BNT branches with agricultural activities (presently
49) will be manned with at least one qualified agricultural technician pro-
vided with adequate transport. At present 10 branches have agricultural
staff (para. 3.13). The branch personnel will be responsible for (i) on-farm
appraisals for farmers above a certain level of production value (para 6.08);
(ii) supervision and recovery of subloans for which BNT assumes all or part of
the default risk; and (iii) coordination of the branches' work with that of
the Agricultural Credit Units (ACU) in the CRDAs (para 6.06) or by CRDAs in
the interim; and (iv) recovery of other subloans. Supervision of the BNT
branch work will be the responsibility of the Agricultural Credit Depart-
ment in headquarters. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that



- 32 -
the functions of the BNT branches will be as described above and that the
recruitment, training (para 6.17) and installation of staff to comply with
these requirements will be complete in at least 20 branches of which 12 are
in the provinces Le Kef, Siliana, Kairouan and Nabeul by December 31, 1981 and
in all branches by December 31, 1982.
6.06      CRDAs.  To achieve the objectives outlined in para 6.02, ACUs will
be created within the Department of Assistance to Small and Medium Farmers
in each of 17 CRDAs. These units will be managed by an experienced agricul-
turalist and staffed with the personnel of the Credit Secretariat now existing
in each CRDA, and a number of agricultural technicians corresponding to the
number of subloan applications expected to be appraised by the unit. One
agricultural technician would handle about three field appraisals or six
desk appraisals daily (para 6.08). ACUs' staff will receive special training
in credit matters by BNT (para 6.17). Each unit will be equipped with vehicles
to give the staff the means for farm visits. Based on these general objectives
the ACUs will be responsible for:
(i) appraisal of subloan applications from small and medium farmers
not exceeding a preinvestment annual value of farm production not
exceeding D 2,000 (US$5,000);
(ii) extension and supervision follow-up to beneficiaries of medium-
and long-term credit for agricultural investments in which BNT
does not assume any risk (FOSDA);
(iii) close cooperation with BNT field personnel in all credit matters;
and
(iv) other tasks as assigned to them in connection with agricultural
credit.
The organizational link of the ACUs to MOA in Tunis will be the Directorate
for Assistance to Small and Medium Farmers. Detailed job descriptions for the
ACU staff, along the lines discussed above will be worked out by a Study Group
(para. 6.03). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ACUs would be
installed on a pilot basis in the provinces of Le Kef, Siliana, Kairouan, and
Nabeul by December 31, 1981 and in all other provinces by December 31, 1982.
C. Procedures for Appraisal and Supervision
6.07      Existing lending procedures will be streamlined and decentralized
as much as possible. Twelve BNT branches now have the authority to direct
loan requests toward financing sources. This number will increase to 20
by December 31, 1981 and to all branches responsible for agricultural lending
by the end of 1982. BNT's agricultural branch staff will undertake, by the
same timetable, on-farm appraisals for all commercial farmers presently
done in headquarters by the Agricultural Credit Department, Division III. At
BNT headquarters, Division III will oversee the appraisals and will, if
needed, send supplementary staff to branches to assist for limited periods in
processing the backlog of requests.



- 33 -
6.08      Appraisal of subloan requests for funding from Project and FOSDA
funds received from small and medium farmers (para 5.03) will be done by the
ACU staff using a simplified appraisal form.  For small investments not
exceeding certain limits, to be determined by the Study Group (para. 6.03),
and for which farm visits are not necessary for technical or ontrol reasons,
appraisal would be confined to desk studies. Assuming the limit for desk
studies would be about D 1,000 (US$ 2,500), it is estimated that for invest-
ments such as draft animals and small equipment, about 30% of all subloan
applications received would not require farm visits. In the period before
staffing reaches the required level appraisals will be done by professional
staff seconded from appropriate divisions of the CRDA.
6.09      Whether appraised by BNT or ACU staff, a recommendation on tech-
nical grounds would go to BNT for creditworthiness assessment. Final approval
for subloans from Project funds will be the responsibility of BNT. For
subloans exceeding D 3,000 (US$7,500) the decision will be made at the head-
quarters in Tunis. For subloans below this level, the authority to approve
will be gradually decentralized according to the timetable in para. 6.05. BNT
will obtain the authority to use Government funds for complementary subsidies
for Bank-funded subloans to small and medium farmers.
6.10      Supervision of disbursed subloans will be the responsibility of
BNT's regional agricultural personnel for all subloans for which BNT assumes
part or all of the default risk. All beneficiaries would receive regular
farm visits from BNT staff. The staff would discuss unpaid credit balances
and encourage repayment of debts by due dates or recommend and justify to
BNT debt rescheduling. The ACU staff would be concerned with the supervision
of subloans funded by Government funds but would not undertake collection.
Assurances regarding implementation of the above lending procedures were
obtained during negotiations.
D. Lending Terms and Conditions
6.11      Lending terms and conditions to subborrowers will be similar to
those under the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1340-TUN). Subloans
to small and medium farmers (para 5.03) will be made with concessional credit
terms including Government grants, which will vary according to the type of
investment. The subsidy equivalent is considered by the Government to be
important to give production incentives. The amounts used as grants and
Government contribution to incremental personnel cost (about 9% of total
Project cost) would be offset by the taxes and custom duties perceived by the
Government under the Project (16% of Project cost). Government subsidies
will also be available for production cooperatives. The contributions of
beneficiaries average about 22% (para. 5.11). Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that terms and conditions for subloans would be in
accordance with those set out in Annex 3 of this report and that terms and
conditions for subloans granted under FOSDA regulations would not differ
substantially from these.



- 34 -
E. Interest Rates
6.12      Lending conditions under the Third Agriculturil Credit Project will
at the beginning of lending operations be identical to those prevailing now
under the Second Agricultural Credit Project i.e: 6% to small and medium
farmers, production and service cooperatives, 7% to commercial farmers and 8%
to agroindustries. The adequacy of these rates which have not changed since
1977 will be tested in a periodic review to take effect for the first time by
June 30, 1982. The objectives of the review will be to ensure that (i) the
interest rates in force are positive when compared to the average inflation
rate over the three years preceding the review (para. 6.13) and (ii) together
with the system of commissions and handling charges cover BNT's operating
costs and provisions for bad debts. BNT will undertake such a review of the
effective average interest rate charged to subborrowers for medium- and long-
term lending from time to time and not less than once each year.  The review
would culminate in recommendations to be adopted by financial authorities in
Tunisia and BNT Management. It would consist of calculations of interest
margins, commissions and other revenues earned by BNT or of any other criteria
analysis acceptable to the Bank. The objective is to determine whether the
revenues generated by medium- and long-term subloans in the year preceding the
review were sufficient.
6.13      For the purpose of the review the following definitions will be
used:
(i)  The effective average interest charged to subborrowers in the
agricultural sector will be the interest rate calculated on the
weighted average of all medium- and long-term subloans made in
the year under review for agricultural investments including
investments in the fisheries and agroindustry subsectors.
(ii)  The inflation rate will be calculated in percent from the
annual index figures for consumer prices as published in
"Statistiques Financieres" by the National Statistical
Institute. Since no official projections are available the
moving average of the three financial years preceding the
review will be used for the comparison.
6.14      Until a new cost accounting system (para. 6.20) will be established
to provide accurate data and until the review discussed above will be completed,
Government has agreed to continue the present system of making compensatory
payments to BNT.  There will remain the system of (i) Governnent compensation
for negative interest rate margins between interest received from beneficiaries
and interest paid to the Bank and unrecoverable amounts of principal and
interest stemming from the default risk not absorbed by BNT; and (ii) Govern-
ment commissions paid to BNT to cover its administrative cost and the build-up
of provisions for the risks assumed by BNT. Specifically an Agreement will be
concluded between Government and BNT prior to Loan Effectiveness specifying
that for the purpose of this Project Government will:



- 35 -
(i)  reimburse BNT annually for any difference between interest
received from subborrowers and interest and commitment fee
paid to the Bank;
(ii)  re-mburse BNT annually for the losses incurred from unre-
coverable principle, interest and other charges (subloan
balances and interest would be considered as unrecoverable if
they are unpaid two years after their due date) for which BNT
does not bear the default risk (para. 6.15); and
(iii) pay to BNT annually a commission of 3% on all Project sub-
loans outstanding at the end of BNT's financial year.
6.15      BNT will continue to assume the full default risk for subloans to
commercial farmers and agroindustry investors. For subloans to all other
subborrowers, BNT's risk assumption will be increased to 40%.
6.16      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the arrange-
ment described and the proposals made in paras. 6.12-6.15 will be implemented
as indicated. Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that BNT
will provide Project subborrowers access to short-term credit on appropriate
terms for input financing. The term input financing will include financing
of tractor work hired on an hourly basis from SONAM or private farmers or
custom contractors.
F. Training
6.17      BNT will establish special training programs for its own profes-
sional agricultural staff and its branch managers. It will also train the
ACUs' staff in credit matters. The training will combine classroom and
on-the-job training in various BNT departments, and will aim to make BNT's
agricultural staff and ACU staff thoroughly familiar with the principles of
agricultural credit, lending programs available to the various beneficiaries
and regions, lending procedures, appraisal techniques, etc. The programs
will have different durations depending on the background of the participants
and on the depth of knowledge desired for each group of participants. The
guidelines for the training programs will be included in the report of the
Study Group (para. 6.03) and the programs will start no later than October 1,
1981 and be completed no later than December 31, 1982. Assurances with
respect to these training efforts were obtained during negotiations.
G. Agroindustry Component
6.18      Project lending to agroindustry will be oriented to small scale
units.  Opportunities for investment in this subsector exist but will have
to be studied carefully in order to avoid undue risks. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that BNT will have each specific subproject
evaluated by a qualified agroindustry expert (para. 6.04) to ensure that:



- 36 -
(i) subprojects financed would be primarily for the processing
of Tunisian agricultural products;
(ii) technical processes chosen for subprojects would be adequate;
(iii) subprojects would have a satisfactory legal, administrative
and financial structure; and
(iv) subprojects would have adequate input supply, market outlets,
technical and financial plans and returns.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (i) for subloans of more
than D 150,000 (US$375,000), BNT will obtain Bank approval before committing
Bank funds to the subproject; and (ii) BNT will be ready to finance adequate
working capital requirements from its own funds.
H. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
6.19      Under the Second Agricultural Credit Project, a monitoring and
evaluation system for commercial farmers was established but was temporarily
discontinued due to lack of qualified staff. Assurances were obtained during
r-r,«tiations Lhat BNT will continue and expand this monitoring program with
adequately traineu personnel (para. 6.04) and for all categories of bene-
ficiaries. The monitoring program would collect data from a representative
sample of beneficiaries on a periodic basis. These data would be analysed
to measure the impact of Project lending on cropping pattern, crop and live-
stock yields, input use, employment, farm income, prices, etc. Furthermore,
the analysis would enable BNT management to update and improve lending norms,
appraisal criteria as well as lending and recovery procedures. BNT has had
difficulties in evoking and maintaining the interest of farmers participating
in this program. These difficulties can be overcome only by patient persua-
sion of participating farmers by qualified and motivated staff. Assurances
were obtained that BNT prepare and send to the Bank quarterly progress
reports which would include reporting on progress achieved in its monitoring
and evaluation efforts. Annual reports would be prepared and sent to the Bank
as for the Second Agricultural Credit Project.
I. Accounts and Audit
6.20      BNT would introduce by December 31, 1981 an accounting system which
would enable exact determination of income from, and of all cost elements
related to, agricultural lending operations. The income would contain all
income received from interest, late payment charges, Government commissions
and all other commissions and fees broken down by source of funds. The cost
statement would specify cost of funds, administrative cost, provisions,
depreciation, taxes and all other cost items related to agricultural lending.
These costs would be differentiated also by type of sublending, that is,
short-, medium- and long-term. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that BNT would continue to have its accounts audited annually by independent



- 37 -
auditors acceptable to the Bank and that BNT would consider the auditors
recommendations made in the audit report and the management letter and make
the necessary modifications in the accounting system and/or financial state-
ments. Audit reports will be sent to the Bank not later than four months
after the date of approval of BNT's financial statements by its General
Assembly. The audit will also apply to the statements of expenditures sent to
the Bank with applications for withdrawal of Loan funds. It will determine
after a sample review that actual BNT expenditures under the Project are
consistent with the statement of expenditures submitted to the Bank.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production Generated by the Project
7.01      The Project is intended to generate additional production, increas-
ing to the stage of full development. Projections of the incremental produc-
tion are subject to a number of errors because:
(i)  There are a number of possible crop and animal production
systems that clients may adopt and in the final analysis
their decisions are likely to be affected by changes in
product prices. The illustrative models follow systems
most likely at the present time.
(ii)  The Project will draw clients from a wide range of soil,
climate and production environments within the recognized
farming areas of Tunisia. Only the most common combinations
could be illustrated in the models.
(iii)  A proportion of the investments, particularly for machinery,
irrigation equipment, and to a lesser extent tree plantations
and poultry facilities, will be for the replacement of depre-
ciated assets to avert a reduction in production.
7.02      In order to provide an estimate of incremental production, projec-
tions have been made using the increased level of the farm models but including
a full range of farms where investments are likely. This examination shows
that the Project would increase crop production in Tunisia through increased
crop yields due to the employment of better production methods and the oppor-
tunity to change production patterns as a result of investments in wells,
pumps and other irrigation equipment; tractors, harvesters, haymaking and
other farm implements; and tree plantations. Improved animal production
particularly of milk and meat would result from investments in the development
of forage crops; and in purchase of genetically improved cattle and the con-
struction of animal shelters.



- 38 -
Commodity                    Incremental Production 1/
by the Project
(tons/year)
Wl -at                                74,400
Barley                                28,500
Pulses                                 9,500
Vegetables                            28,300
Olives (including table)               9,200
Other fruit                            5,200
Meat (beef, mutton, poultry)             900
Milk                                   9,500
Eggs                                     2.5 million pieces
Wool                                      80
7.03      All Project production would contribute to satisfying the increas-
ing demand for food, with the possible exception of durum wheat and table
olives. By the time the Project is in full production, it is planned to have
an exportable surplus of durum wheat equivalent to the import level of bread
wheat. The alternative to the Project would be comparable increases in
imports.
B. Markets
7.04      Tunisian agriculture needs to expand its production in order to
meet the needs of a rapidly growing population and reduce its dependence
on external sources. There is no risk of overproduction of crops from rainfed
farming areas. The problem is rather to achieve a faster growth in the
production of cereals, pulses and forage crops.
7.05      The credit planned for the purchase of tractors, harvesters, and
various other equipment will help either to maintain production at its present
level in the case of machinery renewal or to achieve planned expansion. For
example, the Project proposes to finance about 300 tractors a year, which is
about one-tenth of the renewal and expansion requirements.
7.06      As regards livestock development, the Project provides for the
purchase of 900 to 1,500 units a year comprising imported purebreds (in-calf
heifers and bulls), locally raised purebred animals and improved breeds. This
is considerably less than the overall increase sought during this period but
would contribute towards meeting the increasing domestic demand for meat and
milk. Establishment of pastures is also essential in order to ensure feed for
the stock. The amount included in the Project for poultry units represents
the equivalent of eight modern operations per year of 5,000 chickens capacity,
1/   Incremental production is to be understood as the difference between
production in the "with Project" and the "without Project" situation.



- 39 -
whereas the requirements for the country's domestic market as a whole are
estimated to be 60 to 90 units, without considering renewal of those built
before 1976. The output will again contribute to the d9mestic demand.
7.07      Irrigated crops will also expand rapidly.  The limiting factor for
their production is not the marketing of the crops but water availability.
Moreover, the installation of irrigation systems will provide flexibility for
the farmers to change their production to alternate crops with minimum prob-
lems should any overproduction occur in a particular sector of the market
(substitute forage for vegetables crops, should such a situation ever arise).
At present, demand is considerable and overproduction is highly unlikely.
7.08      The final major item in agricultural development is the estab-
lishment of irrigated tree-crop plantations. The planting rate is planned to
be at least 2,000 ha per year; the Project would assure financing for part of
this. The product potential is reached slowly and is unlikely to keep pace
with demand even though it will contribute to it significantly.
7.09      In the agroindustry subsector, it is clear that the development
calls for a greater selectivity in the choice of subprojects. There are still
opportunities in the traditional subsectors which will need careful examina-
tion. The renewal requirements will in any event have to be financed.
Finally, there are also possibilities in new subsectors, such as construction
af coldstores.
7.10      In summary, it can be confidently stated that the investments
resulting from availability of the third line of credit will not bring about
overproduction. The production generated would be easily absorbed by the
domestic market. The normal follow-up procedures will make it possible to
apply any adjustments rendered necessary by circumstances.
C. Prices
Financial Prices
7.11      Financial prices are expressed in constant Dinars at 1980 values.
They represent prices:
(i) paid by the farmer for purchases of fertilizers, seeds, etc.,
the purchase or hire of equipment (tractors, combine har-
vesters, etc.); and
(ii) paid to the farmer net of taxes for the sale of his harvest. 1/
Investment costs have been calculated on an average useful life of 8.5
years for tractors, 12 years for combine harvesters, 7 years for pumps, 4
years for irrigation equipment and 30 years for wells.
1/   These prices have been regionalized for certain irrigated crops.



- 40 -
Economic Prices
7.12      Input Prices.  The economic prices of equipment have been calculated
in terms of c.i.f. border prices since Tunisia is a net importer for all
types of equipment financed under the Project. Similarly, t1- economic prices
of agricultural inputs have been based on c.i.f. prices adjusted for internal
handling costs in cases where Tunisia is a net importer (as for instance for
ammonium nitrate 33 fertilizer) or on f.o.b. prices where the commodities are
exported (as for instance phosphate Super 45 fertilizer). Because of wide-
spread unemployment and underemployment in Tunisia, the opportunity cost of
labor is below the minimum agricultural wage (SMAG) guaranteed by law. It
was estimated that the opportunity cost of seasonal labor is 50% of SMAG
which, assuming 100 days of annual employment, would be close to the sub-
sistence consumption level in rural areas. For family labor, the opportunity
cost has been estimated at 20% of SMAG, due to the likelihood that such
labor would be largely unemployed in the absence of the Project.
7.13      Prices of Agricultural Products.  For the two internationally traded
commdities produced under the Project, durum wheat and bread wheat, c.i.f.
prices have been used in the economic analyses. For commodities not traded
internationally by Tunisia, prices received by the farmer have been applied.
Since the additional production of all commodities generated by the Project
at full development in all cases will represent less than the increase in
demand caused by population growth (about 55% for wheat, 18% for milk), it
has been assumed that the Project would not have any influence on domestic
prices in real terms. A sensitivity analysis has been used to analyze the
effect of the increase in real prices of wheat projected in the Bank's com-
modity price projections. Sensitivity analysis has also been used to assess
different hypotheses about the effect of Tunisian trade and price policy on
price distortions (which have not been studied in Tunisia). Firstly, a con-
version factor of 0.65 was applied to the domestic price of milk expected
to be delivered to processing plants and of 0.8 to the price of milk expected
to be consumed on the farm or sold to private middlemen. The conversion factor
of 0.65 reflects the ratio of the border price for reconstituted imported non-
fat dry milk plus the cost for reconstitution, divided by the farm producer
price. The 0.8 factor is the standard conversion factor (the inverse of the
shadow exchange rate). Similarly for the other non-internationally traded
commodities, an estimated conversion factor of 0.8 has been used.
D. Financial Benefits
7.14      A wide range of investments will be financed under the Project
and the exact composition of BNT's lending programme will depend upon actual
demands for subloans from individual farmers or cooperatives. Since condi-
tions will vary considerably from one region to another and indeed between
similar investments of different size, investment analysis has been limited to
selected investment types which are represented in typical farm models.
Because of the large number of beneficiaries and the wide range of conditions
under which they operate some simplifications have been made in both the
preparation and analysis of farm models. These are:



- 41 -
(i) to some extent only the major crops grown are included
although in the case of vegetable production crop types
are represented even though the total area may not be
large;
(ii)  standard input prices have been used and mostly standard
product prices except in the case of fruit and vegetables
where differences in quality and demand call for specific
quotations; and
(iii) family labor is not costed.
7.15      The models for the private farms have been constructed following
a careful field evaluation, a review of previous borrowing patterns, and
extensive studies of a sample of potential borrowers.  For the production
cooperative the model is based on the physical and financial structure of the
217 cooperatives in Northern Tunisia and more specifically on models specially
prepared for loan requests to BNT. The model for the service cooperative
is based on actual community structures and cropping patterns in representa-
tive Project areas. The underlying assumptions as to the changes in produc-
tion patterns, yields and inputs which pertain to the models are presented in
the Project File. Prices used are projected 1980 Tunisian prices.
7.16      Farmgate prices in the models are net of sales taxes which range
from 3% to 8% and are deducted from actual sales prices and paid by the
wholesaler or the various authorities to the Government.  The amount of tax
generated by the incremental production of each model has been calculated.
7.17      The agroindustries model covers a typical model in a subsector
for which potential is believed to exist.  As in the case of the farm models
the basis is an actual investment recently financed under the Second Agricul-
tural Credit Project.
7.18      The financial rates of return (FRR) for the typical investment models
under the Project are summarized below.
Model               Model Type                               FRR Base
No.                                                         Estimate
1      Small farmer, pump and tubing                          64
2      Large farmer, forage stable and animals                22
3      Small farmer, well improvement                         74
4      Large farmer, pasture and animals                      43
5      Large farmer, tractor replacement                      22
6      Small farmer, pasture and pure-bred cows               81
7      Production cooperative, forage and cows                30
8      Service cooperative, farm machinery                     21
9      Agroindustry, table olive processing                    18
The FRR's vary from 18 to 81%.  They show that the proposed investments under
the Project would be financially attractive to the subborrower.  The rates of
return, particularly for small farmers, are high for two reasons.  In the



- 42 -
models such as numbers 1 and 3 where water supply is improved, the yields rise
dramatically as a consequence. The second reason is the substantial investment
subsidy provided by the Government. Government would have an inflow of funds
from taxes and customs duties associated with the investments and also from
taxes from the sale of agricultural products. These benefits would be suffi-
cient to finance investment subsidies, incremental personnel cost and payments
to BNT.
E. Employment and Income Effects
7.19      Employment.  The Project would generate substantial employment
opportunities. As estimated 1,200 manyears of additional family labor would
be generated from investments in farm development thus reducing the under-
employment on 2,250 farms and in turn removing this competition from the
off-farm job market. In addition to this increase in family labor, the
Project would generate approximately 90,000 man-days of seasonal labor and
create about 1,100 permanent jobs. There are some investments particularly
tractors, harvesters and weed sprayers which would reduce employment but are
entirely justified for several reasons the main one of which is the advantage
of timeliness in the execution of certain operations. Indirect employment
opportunities will be generated through the investments, because of additional
input use and increased production. These have not been quantified.
7.20      Income.  For approximately 2,250 small farms which are expected to
participate in the Project the average net income per farm family is expected
to grow from D 735 (US$1,838) to D 1,792 (US$4,480). This corresponds to per
capita income increases from D 123 (US$308) to D 299 (US$748). For an esti-
mated 900 large farms the average net income per farm family is expected to
grow from D 5,424 (US$13,560) to D 7,761 (US$19,403) which represents a per
capita increase in income from D 904 (US$2,260) to D 1,294 (US$3,235). The
average number of cooperators in the production cooperatives is 45. The
average income per family for 170 production cooperatives is expected to
increase from D 765 (US$1,913) to D 926 (US$2,315). This is equivalent to a
per capita increase from D 128 (US$320) to D 154 (US$385).
7.21      Target Groups.  It can be expected that of the 2,250 subloans to be
made to small and medium farmers about 20% would be made to farmers in the
target group. Equally, about 60% of the 170 subloans to UCPs would go to UCPs
with members in the target group. Thus about 5,000 families in the target
group with about 30,000 members would be direct beneficiaries of the Project.
The 90,000 man-days of additional seasonal labor would also go to beneficiaries
in the target group. About 900 farm families with about 5,400 members would
benefit. On the assumption that 80% of the new permanent jobs created would
be occupied by workers who were previously seasonal workers, another 880 farm
families with about 5,300 members in the target group would be affected. In
total, 40,700 family members whose annual per capita income is below the
relative poverty level are expected to benefit directly from the Project.



- 43 -
F. Economic Analysis
7.22      Economic rates of return (ERR) have been calculated for each typical
farm and agrwindustry investment using all quantifiable benefits and costs, but
not globally for all project costs and benefits. As shown below, estimates
for ERRs range from 18% to 92%.
Model                                                      ERR Base
No.                     Model Type                        Estimate
1        Small farmer, pump and tubing                      65
2        Large farmer, forage, stable and animals           26
3        Small farmer, well improvement                     92
4        Large farmer, pasture and animals                  48
5        Large farmer, tractor replacement                  18
6        Small farmer, pasture and pure bred cows           69
7        Production cooperative, forage and cows            21
8        Service cooperative, farm machinery                24
9        Agroindustry, table olive processing               43
In most cases, ERRs ire higher than financial rates of return because of high
taxes and duties to re deducted.  Exceptions are the result of substantial
subsidies for seed, diesel fuel, and other farm inputs which affect production
costs of cooperatives or farmers engaged in cereal or pasture development.
G. Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks
7.23      Sensitivity analysis has been used to determine which variables in
each model would be most critical to the success of the subproject in finan-
cial and economic terms.  Switching values in both financial and economic
terms for a 10% discount rate (the best estimate of the opportunity cost of
capital in Tunisia) were calculated for each investment model for a number of
variables. The switching value is the value of the variable tested for which
the subproject's net present value (NPV) is zero, or, equally the value beyond
which the ERR or FRR would be below 10%. The results of the sensitivity
analysis and the switching values are summarized in the following table. This
table shows also the ERRs when using the conversion factors outlined in para.
7.13 and in another column the ERRs when using different wheat price projec-
tions.



- 44 -
Financial Rates           Economic Rates
of Return                 of Return                          ERR Use
SV Incre-                 SV Incre-   ERR Higher    of Con-
Model    SV Invest-   mental        SV Invest-   mental       Wheat Price   version
No.     ment Cost   Benefits    ment Cost   Benefits    Projections   Factors
1         256           -52          252          -51            65           46
2          174          -45          171          -49            27           21
3         500           -56          631          -63            94           71
4         415           -79          372          -75            66           34
5           79          -11           67          - 7            18           15
6          763          -80          521          -74            52           59
7         177           -58           38          -24            29           14
8           48          -16           50          -15            24           24
9           17          - 5          151          -23            43           15
7.24      There are several risks, discussed in the Agriculture Sector review
and the OED Fifth Annual Review of Project Performance Audit Results which
could affect the impact of the Project on agricultural production. The major
Project risk would be adverse climatic conditions which would reduce or wipe
out crop yields. This would reduce incomes and increase default incidences.
Part of this risk is compensated by insurances against hail and fire, compul-
sory for larger farmers. Moreover, the crop yields are calculated on an
average pattern of good and bad years. Therefore, the rates of return
calculated are the most likely ones to occur. A second risk would be a
possible deterioration in Government services for agriculture, or the Credit
Extension Service not working properly as expected.  Due to Government's
commitment to agriculture which is expected to continue through the Sixth Plan
period, this is very unlikely. Agroindustry subprojects would need careful
preparation and adequate supervision by BNT in order to avoid cost overruns
and difficulties in raw material supply and marketing.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR AGREEMENTS
8.01      During negotiations the following main assurances were obtained:
(a) BNT will establish a cost accounting system by December 31, 1981
(para. 6.20) and undertake annual reviews of the adequacy of its
agricultural interest rates and make adequate proposals for their
modification if necessary, the first of such reviews will take
place by June 30, 1982 (paras. 6.12-6.13);
(b) Government and BNT will appoint a Study Group to work out details
of organizational proposals (para. 6.03);



- 45 -
(c)  Government and BNT will make the necessary organizational changes
to create ACUs and strengthen agricultural credit services of BNT
(paras. 6.04-6.06);
(d) BNT will streamline and decentralize lending procedures (para.
6.07);
(e) BNT will set up training program for agriculturai staff (para.
6.17);
8.02      Loan Effectiveness will be dependent on the following special
condition:
(a) Government entering into an agreement with BNT (paras. 5.13
and 6.12-6.16).
8.03      With the above assurances and agreement, the proposed Project will
be suitable for a Bank Loan of US$30 million to BNT for a term of 14 years
including 4 years of grace.
May 1980



i11TUSIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
T1IRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Total Project Cosct  acd Schedule of Expenditutes / Total des coats du Projet et Plan des 1épenss
(D'000)
1981                            1982                             1983                              Total
Foreigin                        Foreign                          Foreign                          Fore-ig
Local    Eachange    Total    Local    Exchange    Total    Local    Exchange    Total    Local    Exchange    Total
Combines                                140         209        349       152        229         381      162         243        405       454         6bl       1,135    Muissosoeoses batteuses
Tractors                                672       1,007      1,679       756      1,009      1,815       796       1,134      1,891     2,154       3,231       5,385    Tracteurs
Mowers und Balers                        43          65        108        50          72        119        52          78       129        143         214        357    Faucheuses et rsseuses presses
Tractor Ioplemento                      310         464        774       332         498       830       339         509        848       981       1,471      2,452    Ac-esasires tracteur
Mi.scellaneo.u  Equipment                46          38         84        51          42         93        56         46        101        153         125        278    Eqolipeset divers
Subtotal Fait Machioery             1,210      1,784       2,994    1,309        1,929     3,238    1,365        7,009      3,374    3,884        5,722      9,606       Sema Total Iht;riel
Cattle                                  220          94        314       252         110        362      282         120        491       754         324      1,077    BovIns
C    ew Shedu                           179          77        256       197          86        283      205          90        295       581         253        834    Etables bovins
Sheep                                    32          -          32        38          -          38       45          -          45       115           -        115    ovins
Forage Establisbhest                    135         177        312       147         190        337      148         189        337       430         556        986    Fourage
Aviuittrse  snd MiScsIlaneous            88         111        199        95         115       210        92         111       203       275         337        612    Aviculture et divers
subtotal Livestock                    654         459      1,113       729         501     1,230       772         510      1,281    2,154        1,470      3,624       Sous Total Elevage
Well Digging                            110          35        145       114          36        150      110          35        144       334         105        439    Création puits
Pump Sets                               173         238        411       182         252       434       182         252        434       537         742      1,279    Groupe stntopo!pe
Irrigation Equipment                     76         114        191        82        122        204        84         126        210       242         363        605    Equipe ent d'irrigation
Irrigation Syntens                       36          29         65       39          32         70        40          32         72       114          93        208    Canalisation
sobtotal Irrigation                   395         417        812      417         442        859       416         445        861    1,227        1,303      2, 531      Sous Total Irrigation .
Irrigated Tree Cropo                    232          32        263      240           33       272       237          32        269       708          97        805    Plantations irrig.ees
Rainfnd Tree Crops                       88           9         96        92           9       101        96          10        106       276          27         303    Plantations en sec
Miscellaneo.s                            53           '7        60        56           8         63        58           8         66      167           23        190    Divers
Subtotal Norticulture                 372         47        419       387          49        436       391          50        441    1,151          147      1,297       Sous Total Arboriculture
Civil Works                             182          32        214       213          37       250       213          37        250       607         107         714    Gesie Civil
Equipment                               171         257        428       200         299       499       200         299        499       570         856      1,426    Eqoip_ent
Miscellanec-s                            43          43         85        50          50        100        50          50       100       142          143        285    Divers
Workicg Capital                         128          -         128       150          -         150      150          -         150       428           -         428    Fonds de roulement
Subtotal Agî ioiundtry                524        331        855       612         387        999       612         387        999    1,748        1,106      2,853       Sous Total Agroindustcie
Incrmenrtl Personnel Cost                                                                                                                                                Frais additin.nel  de
MA/ACEU.                                20          -          20       93          -          93       147          -         147       760          -         260      Parsonnel, N/AECUs
I1crenental Personnel Coet                                                                                                                                              Frai, additionnels de
BNT                                      8          -           S        72         -          72       156          -         156       236          -         236     Personnel, BNT
Base Conta                           3,183        3,038     6,221    3,619        3,308      6,927    3,858        3,401      7,259   10,660        9,746    20,406    C.Ots de Base
Phynital Coottngmccte                    58          46        104       65          52        117        65          53        118       187         152        339    Aléas Physiques
Prics C-ntinge-ries /J                  227         323        550      420         686      1,106       883       1,036      1,919    1,530        2,045      3,575    Aléas Finnciers
Grand Total                      3,468       3,407      6 875    4 104        4 046      8 150    4 806       4 490      9 296   12,377       11,943    24,320            Grand Totale
Note:  Differences due t0 rou.din
a  The follo ilg experted inflotion rates in percent per *nnum vers  sed in deternIni.g prive contingencles   o) Local compo.eet 1980-1983 7.0%;
b) Foreign e-change composent 1980 10.5%, 1981 9%, 1982 8%, 1983 7%.
Les taox soivante en pourcent par an ont etc adoptes potr dstermiser les  .leas Finsnciers   s) Composante loc-le 1980-1983 7.0%;
b) Composante ea  devIsas 1980 10.5%, 1981 9%, 1982 8%, 1983 7%.
May  1980



ANNEX 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Calendrier du Paiement
IBRD Fiscal Year                                 Accumulative Disbursements
and Quarter /                                    at End of Quarter /
BIRD Annee Fiscale                               Deblocages Accumules a
et Trimestre                                     la Fin du Trimestre
US$ million-------
1981
March 31, 1981                                           2.0
June  30,.L981                                           4.1
1982
September 30, 1981                                       6.2
December  31, 1981                                      _8.5
March 31, 1982                                          10.9
June  30, 1982                                          13.3
1983
September 30, 1982                                      15.9
December  31, 1982                                      18.6
March 31, 1983                                          21.5
June  30, 1983                                          24.5
1984
September 30, 1983                                      27.6
December  31, 1983                                      30.0



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Lending Policies and Procedures
GUARANTOR                 SUB-BORROWER
SUB-LOAN /2                SUBSIDY                  OWN CONTRlIBUTIONS                     Term (including grace)
%L                 Not more than (%)/l         Not less than (t)/1    Interest            Years
Individual Cooperative   Individual Cooperative   Individual Cooperative  Not le5s (Z)  Not more
A. Small and Medium Farmers and
Production Cooperatives (Parts
A and B of the Project)
B. Type of Investment Pro1ect:
1. Shallow welle, pump sets
and irrigation equipmant          65          65              15          15              20         20              6             7 (2)
2. Tube wells, vertical pump sets
and irrigation equipment          50           50             40           40             10         10              6            20 (2)
3. Well improvement                  60           60             20           20             20         20              6            10 (2)
4. Forage, cactus and other          50           50             30          30              20         20              6 (O)*        5   (1)
pasture improvement
5. Pasture improvement:
medicago                          30          30              65          65               5          5              6             5 (1)
6. Cattle, sheep, draft animals   65              65             15          25              20         10              6          3 -5.
7, Buildings improvement and         65          65              15          25              20         10              6          5-15 (2)
equipment for livestock
8. Poultry units and other           70           70             10          20              20         10              -
production of amall animals
9. Light agricultural implements
and equipment                     70          70              10          20              20         10              6          3-10 (2)
10. Farm machinery and implements   -              70              -           20              -         10              6          5-7 (1)
11. Tree crop establishment           60           60             20           30             20         10              6 (0)*   10-15 (5-8)
12. Greenhouses and similar           70           70             10          20              20         10              6          3-5
inveistments
C.   Parking Stations,                 -           65            -            20             -            15             6           To be agreed
Agricultural Machinery                                                                                                          on a case by
and Transport Equipment                                                                                                         case basis
(Part C of the Project)
D. Ceneral Farm Development for
Commercial Farmers                   70            -              -            -             30           -             7
(Pare D of the Project)
E. Agro-Industry Investments             70           -               -           -             30            -            8
(Part E of the Project)
* During grace period
/1 Percentage of total cost
12 Sub-loans function of Guarantor subsidy and Sub-borrower own contributions



- 49 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector in Tunisia
Budget Economique 1979, Agriculture et Peche - Ministry of Agriculture,
November 1978.
Budget Economique 1980, La Production Agricole - Ministry of Agriculture,
December 1979.
Enquete Agricole de Base 1975, Nord de la Tunisie - Ministry of
Agriculture, September 1975.
Enquete Agricole de Base 1977 - Ministry of Agriculture, December 1977.
Financial Statements as at December 31, 1978 of four Production
Cooperatives.
Couts de Production des Cereales dans la Tunisie du Nord (Actualisation) -
Ministry of Agriculture, December 1976.
Circuit de Commercialisation des Cereales en Tunisie - Ministry of
Agriculture, May 1975.
A Study of Milk Production in Tunisia by Dr. Bill F. Kelso, April 1977.
A Study of Sheep Production in Tunisia by J.M. Sachse, May 1977.
Feedgrain Production and Potential in Tunisia by M.D. Bate, August 1977.
Rapport Annuel 1977, Offices des Cereales - Ministry of Agriculture.
Development of Crop Rotation Technology for Tunisia by John B. Doolette,
August 1977.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Evaluation d'un Troisieme Project de Credit Agricole - BNT, August 1979.
Rapport Annuel 1978 -BNT, June 1979.



-50 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 2
Agroindustries Project, A Working Paper - FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program, February 1979.
AgroinX.stries Preparation Report, Tunisia - FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program, September 1979.
C.  Selected Working papers and Tables Prepared by Bank Staff
Appendix
Cl.  The Agricultural Sector in Tunisia .....    ................    1
C2.  Detailed Data on BNT and Agricultural Credit .... .......    2
C3.  Representative Farm Models .............................    3
C4.  Performance under the Second Agricultural Credit
Project,  Loan  1340-TUN  .................................  4



POUJà4AE I  TI  E  C       of EL  OUAR A
-37                                                     ;                                                                            vs 37-
37~~~~        -  - ~~~TA6AMK 
.-/ 'ENDOU É   JE   gAB g                                          0    F     -         M
N EBEUR                 AFOU                        J    W
KRI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<                                                               %4; r              .]/a7=é 0N 
-36,
NE                                                       S/ X1BIK  = 0=  
( C$tALAATI                                     IA .    g  TAR  AC USSEg7\ R   2 S'  A /$  A W           :D 7 U   = ,:
<   <  XA_A       <FFO~~~~~HFFU7                D>1    A                                 ÎN        ' E           :
35'
r   FRIANA                               u   ftr'l      ,FIE'HYE%           9        ||;t-;t   :
_ _ )>>>; ,</SID~~~~~~~~~~~~ ALI RE~ 1 A    9AXX;;
y                                                                J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
«<açrme    /g   A~~GFS                                                                     !ARES ,< 
REDEYtF _ , \ g!KA 00 0 0 0 f~~~V                           EDOAI-,
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT~~~E PGJECTA
J _ 4 Tr E. f ,' / C | )~~~~~~~~ V                                                           J   34
°orrlAb ~            Pronca  Catto  AX                                  F RFt. = < ;  I C A                          t           
o Th  NSI an                                                        GHOUMAeSE Roods 
Roilovoys~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ÉKiR
cDr      FO tS
33~~~~~~         ITHIRDina AGRICLTURA   CREDITo0o PROJET                               ,                                             OoVOAHUbVo,0
TOZEU                                            'ID;n;O  CalosAF     
---:  Sroit Lake                                                                                           00000'0,000i0000 X00         \
NEFT   --- - PRaverd0h                                                                                              d oo o,.
-    l- OternohOonol Boo,ndor,es     O,     20      40     60      8       100       aVn  000000000 00000,0000rT r
B                        9O            aI~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~                ~         ~~L.06OMERS  006000000000000 Zéte1/°a~erbwd-e  
o'              or'                          000900,000000040000000000~~~~~
ATMATA                          ZARZIS~000000OooO,oO 0doo ~ ~ k



