CIRCULATING COPY
R   BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Report No. 644a-SL                                                    i     C            n
Appraisal of                                                          EE COPY
Integrated Agricultural Development Project 11
Sierra Leone
Supplementary Volumes 2 and 3                                          RETURN TO
April 8, 1975                                                       REPC              2Tm   :'
Western Africa Regional Office                                             WIT! I "-I,
Not for Public Use                                                     ONE W;2r 
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sierra Leone Leone
Le 1 = US$1.20
US$1 = Le 0.833
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac) = 0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile = 1.61 kilometer (km)
1 sq. mile = 6h0 acres = 259 ha
1 ton = 2,2h0 pounds (lb)
1 hundredweight (cwt) = 112 lb - 51.02 kg
1 bushel husk rice = 60 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
ARI        Agricultural Research Institute
EAP        Eastern Area Project
EAPMU      Eastern Area Project Management Unit
FFC        Farmer Finance Company
LBA        Licenced Buying Agent
MANR       Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
NAP        Northern Area Project
NAPMU      Northern Area Project Management Unit
NDB        Nitional Development Bank
PAC        Project Advisory Committee
PESU       Project Evaluation and Services Unit
SLG        Sierra Leone Government
SLPMB      Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
SLPMC      Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Company
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Volumes 2 and 3
Table of Contents
Volume 2:  Northern Area Project
Annex 1 - Project Area
Annex 2 - Farm and Crop Development
Annex 3 - Civil Works
Annex 4 - Marketing and Farm Inputs
Annex 5 - Project Costs
Volume 3:  Eastern Area Project
Annex 1 - Performance of ongoing Integrated Agricultural
Development Project
Annex 2 - Project Area
Annex 3 - Farm and Crop Development
Annex 4 - Marketing and Farm Inputs
Annex 5 - Project Costs
Maps      Location of Project areas
Northern Area Project area
Eastern Area Project area
Chart 1 - Organization of Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources
Chart 2 - Northern Area Project Organization
Chart 3 - Eastern Area Project Organization






Volume 2
Annex 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Project Area
Table of Contents
Page No.
A.      Description    .......               ........................              1
Geography    ................................1
Climate    .            ..................................                 1
Soils    ..........             ...........................                1
Vegetation    ................................                             2
Population    ........                ........................             2
Communications    ......................                                   3
Services    ............................                                   3
Marketing    .................................                             4
B.    Agriculture    ...............................                               4
Farming  System    ............................                            4
Farm  Operations    ...........................                            5
Pests  and  Diseases    ........................                           5
Farm  Size    ........              .........................              6
Land  Tenure    ...............................                            7
Crop  Production    ...........................                            8
Livestock  Production    ......................                            8
Table  1    Rainfall Records
Table 2   Calendar of Farm Operations
Table 3   Labor Capacity of Average Farm Family






Volume 2
Annex 1
Page 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
The Project Area
A. Description
1.        Geography.  The project area lies between latitudes 8035' and 9020'
North and longitudes 11°45' and 12030' West and comprises the chiefdoms of
Paki Masabong, Bombali Sebora, Makari Gbanti, Gbendembu Gowahun, Safroko
Limba, Sanda Tenraran and Gbanti Kamaranka in Bombali district and Kholifa
in Tobkolili district, amounting to 854,000 acres or 1,334 square miles.
2.        Topographically, there are two major zones: the gently undulating
bolilands at 150' to 250' a.s.l. and comprising 40% of the area; and the
moderately undulating uplands, 200' to 500' a.s.l. extending from the boli-
lands to the escarpment of the north eastern plateau. There are occasional
outliers to the plateaux of inselbergs which rise to around 600' individually
and to around 1,500' in the case of the Katabai hills. Two major rivers,
the Mabole and the Rokel, drain from the plateau and flow through the area
in a south westerly direction. The capital town of Northern Province is Makeni
which lies south center of the project area.
3.        Climate.  The annual rainfall, based on a 32 year average of records
taken at Makeni, is 120.8 inches of which 114.2 falls from May through
November and 6.6 inches from December through April (see Table 1). Rainfall
decreases slightly to the north and north-east, whilst the dry season also
becomes more marked. A notable feature of the dry season is the harmattan -
an intensely drying wind which blows periodically from the Sahara desert
during January and February, accompanied by slight but noticeable falls in
temperature. Over the year, however, temperature fluctuates very little,
varying between a mean of 78'F in August and 83°F in March/April. Hours
of sunshine decrease slightly as one moves from north to south, and the
number of sunshine hours per day declines during the rains to an August low
of around two to three hours, and a February high of seven to eight hours.
Mean day length varies little throughout the year.
4.        Soils.  Geologically, the area comprises the Rokel river series,
which underlies the bolilands, and the granite and acid gneisses which
account for the major part of the project area. Soils are mainly sands and
gravels with a high proportion of lateritic gravel, and are light and free
draining. They are acid to very acid (pH 4.0-6.0) with an associated low
nutrient status. There is a small area of doleritic soil to the north of
the project area.



Volume 2
Annex 1
Page 2
5.        In terms of land use, the main soil types distinguished are uplands,
inland swamps, river terraces and the bolilands. The upland soils are
generally deeply leached of bases and support growth by decomposition of
organic matter. Under natural vegetation, nutrient levels are restored by
litter feed, rain wash, and by uptake of tree roots from mineral soil at con-
siderable depth. Swamp soils are naturally similar to those of the adjacent
uplands, but vary greatly in overall depth and depth of top soil. Top soils
are mainly sandy loams or sandy clay loams tending to dark peaty loams in
the wetter parts, the predominance of the latter being determined by the
water regime of the swamp. Few swamps have a high clay component in the
top soil, and the subsoils are likewise of a coarse sandy texture, overlying
base rocks of weathered granite which in places are visible or near to the
surface. In composition, the river terrace soils have good physical charac-
teristics and a relatively high inherent fertility. The land, however, is
severely invaded by lalang grass (Imperata cylindrica) which is difficult
to control and impedes cultivation. The soils of the bolilands, which cover
over 40% of the project area, are strongly acid (pH 5.0-4.0), of low clay
and high sand content, and low inherent fertility. The bolilands, which
are the principal areas of attention of the provincial agricultural admin-
istration and depend heavily on the services of the government mechanical
cultivation unit, are not included in the first phase development proposals
of the prcject.
6.        Vegetation.  The project area has two distinct ecological zones;
in the south the dense farm bush of the interior plains; and in the north
the derived savannah where the bush is very much more open and grassland
associations of Andropogan and Chasmopodium are more common. The main
species of tree found in the farm bush are Parkia biglobosa, Parinari Excelsa,
Elaeis guineensis, Antiaris africana, and Chlorophora regia. These species,
together with Bauhinia and instrusions of Lophira are also typical of the
savannah area whilst grass lands occur in the bolilands and in some previously
intensively cultivated areas.
7.        Population.  The rural population of the project area is estimated
at 172,000 persons, using the 1963 population census figures and compounding
the estimated growth rate for the area of 1.8%. Of these an estimated 18%
(31,000) are settled in the bolilands. Most of the population is concentrated
along the existing road network in small nucleated villages of 10 to 50
houses. Analysis of the population structure reveals clearly that the pro-
ject is a temporary migration zone which young men leave between the ages
of 15-20 and to which they begin to return after the age of 30. As the
diamond industry declines, and following the levying of a poll tax in
Freetown, and the attraction of development incentives during project im-
plementation, it is expected that population will increase by 2.75% per
annum from 1974 through 1979 to a total of 197,000 persons.
8.        Farm families within the project area are large, comprising ex-
tended family members usually living in a single large hut. A German
Development Institute (GDI) sample survey in the project area, which defined



Volume 2
Annex 1
Page 3
farm household as a unit formed of all persons, related or not, who lived
with a farmer who was responsible for feeding them; found an average size
of 12.2 persons (2.5 men, 2.7 women, 5.2 children and 1.8 other dependents).
On this basis, roughly 14,000 farmers are contained in the project area of
which 1,500 are farming in the bolilands.
9.        There are four major ethnic groups in the project area out of 18
in Sierra Leone:
The Temne:      the largest group who are concentrated in the
central and southern areas.
The Foulah:    the second largest group who are pastoralist and
concentrated mainly in the derived savannah areas
of the central uplands.
The Limba:      who dominate the northern eastern part of the area.
The Loko:       who are concentrated to the north and west of Makeni
Township.
In addition, there are smaller and more dispersed settlements of Mende,
Susu and Mandingo.
10.       The administrative structure of the area is significant because
of the strength and influence of the traditional authority. The project
area comprises 8 chiefdoms administrated by Paramount Chiefs and Chiefdom
Councillors. Each Chiefdom is divided into sections (headed by Section
Chiefs) which are further subdivided into towns and villages (headed
respectively by Town and Village Chiefs). The traditional authority remains
the main political and governing force of the area and it is important that
project administration is integrated within the traditional structure and
that local leaders are intimately involved in the planning process.
11.       Communications. A paved truck road linking Makeni to Freetown has
recently been constructed to a high standard, with overhead pedestrian
walkways, under German technical and financial assistance. The trunk road
south of Makeni to Magburaka is currently being upgraded to the same standard.
A spine road runs north from Makeni through Gbendembu to the Guinea border,
and has feeder road links with important population centers. Due to in-
adequate maintenance and drainage, surface standards are moderate to poor,
but there is a good network of bridges and generally excellent soil for road
surfacing, so that renovation and upgrading do not present major problems.
12.       Services.  Water supplies are generally unsatisfactory in terms of
quality and accessibility. Though some small towns have reticulated supplies
installed by government, a bulk of the rural population have to rely on
streams and wells, many of which are both seasonal and contaminated. During



Volume 2
Annex 1
Page 4
the dry season, villagers often make long hauls for water, and there is a
high incidence of stomach sickness. Simple well installations would have
a significant social and economic impact.
13.       Marketing.  There is an active private sector food crop marketing
system facilitated by a number of municipal markets in the larger centers.
Rice is the staple food grain but per capita consumption appears to be below
the national average and cassava, sweet potato, beans, and groundnuts figure
importantly in the diet. Palm kernel is the most important conventional
cash crop, although some coffee is marketed in Magburaka and Makeni. There
are a large number of small rice mills in Makeni, mostly powered by electric-
ity, the intermittent supply of which prevents the effects of excess capacity
being felt, and possibly even contributes to consumer exploitation through
increased milling costs.
B. Agriculture
14.       Farming Systems.  Upland agriculture in the project area is dominated
by a system of shifting cultivation in which cleared land is cropped for
1 to 2 years and then allowed to revert to a bush fallow of 5 to 10 years.
The bush fallow not only maintains soil structure and restores fertility,
but also reduces weed growth and provides a valuable source of firewood for
villagers. The cycle commences with brushing, clearing and burning of
vegetative cover. Trees are felled at 1 to 2 feet above ground level and
the binding effect of the stumps on the soil, coupled with minimal culti-
vation, reduces erosion risk and allows rapid regrowth under bush fallow
with a root system capable of drawing on mineral resources from considerable
depth. Except where weeds have invaded the land prior to planting, hardly
any preparatory tillage is undertaken though, at planting time, any shoots
springing from the stumps are cut back. Upland rice is planted during the
first cropping year usually with admixtures of other crops such as maize,
sorghum, benniseed, cowpeas and millet. Where land is cropped for a second
year, groundnuts is the dominant crop and is often interplanted with cassava.
Under present dry conditions, shifting cultivation has come under strain
from lncreasing population pressure and a corresponding decrease in the
duration of bush fallow. In addition, the labor demand to annually clear
new areas Lor the upland crops probably constitutes over 50% of the annual
labor output and has major implications on farm productivity.
15.       With rising population pressure on the uplands there has been an
increasing trend towards inland swamp cultivation. As a result, most upland
farmers also cultivate swamp land and an increasing number depend solely on
the swamp land for their livelihood. In order to reduce pressure of culti-
vation on the uplands, swamp development, until recently, received official



Volume 2
Annex 1
Page 5
encouragement from MANR which provided grants to farmers for clearing,
stumping, and constructing water control measures. However, while most
swamps in the area (80%) have been cleared and brought into part cultivation
at some time, effective water control measures are rarely applied and the
rice crop may be subjected to flooding, drying out and heavy weed infestation.
16.       Farm Operations.  The sequence of operations in the farming year
are expressed diagramatically in Table 2. Upland work commences with brush-
ing during February and March and is aimed at having a maximum amount of well
dried vegetation ready to be burned prior to the rains to ensure a layer of
surface ash. After burning, a field hut is usually built which serves as
a temporary dwelling for the family during the growing season. Planting
commences during May, and only after completion of upland planting will
farmers attend the swamp land cultivation.
17.       Swamps are usually tilled in May-June in preparation for rice
planting. An increasing use is made of the soil mounding system which
involves mounding up the swamp at the end of the dry season and spreading
the mounds just prior to transplanting in July. This serves two purposes:
(a) the mounds are used for growing cassava for its leaves and (b) it
assists in reducing weeds in the subsequent rice crop. Seedbeds for trans-
planted rice are sown in June, mostly in well prepared areas around the
villages but increasingly also, on the tops of the soil mounds in the swamp.
Seedlings are transplanted when they are anything from 20 to 60 days old.
Local seed varieties have durations between 170-200 days so that harvesting
is carried out in December and January. The threshing operation tends to
be spread out as subsistence and cash needs require.
18.       There is some divisions of labor by sex, with men doing the heavier
work such as brushing and clearing the uplands, and digging the swamp lands.
Women are concerned with the lighter farm work such as weeding and harvesting
(in which they may be assisted by the men). Children also assist with the
lighter farm work and have the special task of bird scaring when crops are
ripening. An important system of communal labor operates in both the uplands
and the swamp areas. Such labor groups are concerned primarily with the
heavier farm operations and families contribute one person to the group which
circulates in strict rotation around the participants' holdings. Non-
participating families may hire communal labor groups for cash payment with
food provided. The groups operate as efficient labor units which is reflected
in their hire charges which are around (food included) Le 1.00-1.50 per head
per day. Details of the labor capacity of the average farm family in the
project area are given in Table 3.
19.       Pests and Diseases.  A major problem for upland and swamp farmers
is caused by the rodent Agouti or Thryonomys swinderianus, locally known as
cutting grass. Farmers spend a great deal of time erecting palm leaf fences
around swamps to protect their crops, but as yet no really effective method
of control has been devised. Birds, the weaver bird (Ploseuscouculatus) in
particular, are probably responsible for as much loss of crop or even more



Volume 2
Annex 1
Page 6
than rodents. The only control measure effective to any extent is by employ-
ing bird scarers, an operation which makes considerable demands on family
labor from flowering to harvest. Damage can be particularly severe on out of
season crops.
2C.       By far the most important fungal disease is Blast (caused by
Pyricularia oryzae), which affects seedlings (Scorch) and the inflorescence,
although the former occurs more frequently and on occasion can cause severe
damage to nurseries. Local varieties do not appear to be particularly
susceptible but in introducing improved varieties, particular attention
needs to be paid to their Blast resistance. Other fungal diseases such as
Sheath Blight (Corticium), Leaf Scald (Rhyncosporium oryzae), and Brown
Spot (Cochliobolus miyabeanus) occur, but are not considered important.
Serious damage by insects is unusual in Sierra Leone. Stemborers (Sesamia
calamistis) (Chilospecies), Maliarpha seperatella and Siopsis thoracica are
generally recognized as the worst pests, and army worms (Spodoptera exempta
and Spodoptera exigua) occur sporadiacally, but are not yet recognized as
being a serious problem. White tip nematode (Aphalenchoides besseyi), which
had not been recorded before 1965 in Sierra Leone, has recently shown a
marked increase in level of infestation.
21.       Farm Size.  In a recent small sample survey 1/ in the project area,
the proportion of farmers involved in upland and swamp cultivation was as
follows:
23.5% farming swampland only;
55% farming uplands and swamps; and
21.5% farming uplands only.
Total area cultivated per family varies greatly according to family size and
soil fertility, but averages 5 to 6 acres per annum followed by a fallow
period of around 6 years which is considered inadequate to allow complete
restoration of soil fertility. While there has been a steady increase in
swamp farming over the years this has tended to follow, rather than anti-
cipate, marked degradation of vegetation and decline in soil fertility in
the uplands. Swamp holdings vary from 1-5 acres according to dependence
on the swamp as a means of subsistence. Outside of the swamp areas, most
farmers maintain small areas of land under some form of permanent cropping.
These areas are generally of more fertile soils and are located around
houses and on the shoulders of swamps and water courses. Obervation in
the project area suggests that 6.5% of the cultivable uplands and bottomlands
are so cropped, averaging 1 acre per farm family.
1/   Conducted by the German Development Institute in 1972, but covering
only 100 families.



Volume 2
Annex 1
Page 7
22.       Land Tenure.  Land tenure within the project area is complicated
both by differences between ethnic groups and by evolutionary trends directly
and indirectly resulting from increased land pressure. While it is unlikely
that land tenure problems could significantly affect project actions, their
relevance to long-term development objectives will need to be carefully
assessed during project implementation.
23.       There are three important aspects in the land tenure system
ownership, usufruct and occupation. Land is owned by the community as a
whole and responsibility for primary allocation is ultimately vested in the
paramount chief. Once land has been allocated, either directly to individuals
or indirectly through consanguine groups, the usufruct is both retainable
and inheritable for as long as it is claimed. Actual occupation of the
land is more intrinsic and difficult to formalize, comprises those with land
title and those who have acquired land from title holders. The latter
aquisition is generally short term 1/ and uninheritable, and while it is
referred to locally as "begged-land", it is normally accompanied by cash
or kind transactions.
24.       Superimposed on this somewhat simplified structure are authoritarian
differences between ethnic groups (for example, in the Temne lands, individual
rights tend to dominate the communal rights vested in the chief, whereas
the reverse is true among the Limba people) and trends within ethnic groups.
Thus, in a largely polygomous society facing a situation of increasing land
pressure it is obvious that strict division of land between heirs would cause
extreme fragmentation. There is therefore a tendency for land title to
be inherited by a single heir of the late owner leading to evolutionary
combinations of individual and group rights. This is further influenced by
a local practice of land holders pledging the security of usufruct of their
land in order to obtain cash loans. The usufruct is enjoyed by the pledgee
as an interest and continues for as long as the loan remains outstanding. The
almost constant cycle of debt surrounding many farmers in the area results
in land title accumulating in the hands of the more prosperous community
members with a corresponding rise in the predominance of "begged land." In
the context of the project, these aspects of land rights are of greatest
significance to swamp development both from the stand point of tenure security
in relation to long-term development loans and from the stand point of water
rights within the developed swamp. While these problems must be recognized
at the outset, it is important that any tenurial arrangements are allowed to
evolve from the community itself. Such evolution will be encouraged during
the project through a group approach to swamp development, and through active
participation of the traditional authority in the planning process.
1/   In the case of swamp lands acquisitions of this sort can extend for
many years. On the uplands, occupancy is limited to the duration of
the cropping cycle (1 to 2 years).



Volume 2
Annex I
Page 8
25.       Crop Production.  Existing crop yields are subject to great
speculation in Sierra Leone, and it is unfortunate that the surveys and trials
that have been conducted in the area, and indeed in the country as a whole,
are sufficiently controversial as to render the entire production base of
the project dependent almost wholly on 'guesstimates'. These controversies
were reviewed during project preparation and include both errors of intention
as well as errors of design and collection. The findings of the recently
published Agricultural Statistical Survey (conducted during 1970/71) and
analyzed by districts likewise reported crop yields which bore little re-
semblance to the mission's observations. In part this is explained by the
statistical variance of the Survey data (sampling errors for Bombali and
Tonkolili districts were among the highest in the country) and by relating
data collected throughout a rather heterogeneous sampling frame to a dis-
crete area within that frame (the project area occupies about 40% of Bombali
district, and 10% of Tonkolili district). In addition, certain techniques
used in the survey could have had a significant effect on the yields re-
corded. Yield measurements were obtained by crop cuttings using insufficiently
accurate weighing scales in relation to the size of plot harvested. This
could lead to an upward bias on average yields (due to a tendency to round
upwards rather than downwards) as well as constituting a source of variance
not wholly included in the calculations of sampling error.
26.       The crop yields given below are based on observation, a critical
appraisal of existing yield data for the area, and the results of discusssions
with farmers. 1/ It should be stressed, however, that while speculation re-
mains regarding existing crop yield levels, project benefits, being based
on incremental production, are uneffected in an absolute sense.
Existing Crop Yields in the Project Area
Husk       Unshelled
Location                                       Rice        Groundnuts
---- lbs/acre ---
Inland swamps                                  1,200
Uplands
a)  Permanently cropped                        800         1,000
b)  Shifting cultivation                       500           900
27.       Livestock Production.  The cattle population of Sierra Leone is
estimated at 207,000 head of which the majority are found in the north
eastern highlands. Cattle population within the project area is unknown,
but almost certainly below 15,000 head, concentrated mainly in the hillier
1/   Yield information was obtained by asking 'if you sow a bushel of rice,
how many bushels would you expect to harvest?' and relating the
responses to plant density information.



Volume 2
Annex 1
Page 9
areas. The cattle owners are predominantly Foulah most of whom are nomadic
or semi-nomadic and with whom cattle ownership has deep rooted social im-
plications. All cattle are of the Ndama breed which is hardy, disease
tolerant (particularly of trypanosomiasis) and generally well suited to
prevailing conditions. Productivity, however, is low due to various factors
among which are low calving rates and high calf mortality (production from
100 cows often being as low as 40 weened calves). The genetic potential
of the breed is also low with slaughter stock, sold usually between 5 and 7
years, rarely exceeding 600 lbs liveweight. Production of milk, which
produces a staple food for the Foulah people, is also low, lactation yiedls
being below 150 gallons.
28.       During the cropping season, herding is carefully supervised by
herd boys and cattle are night housed in fenced enclosures (waries) to avoid
damage to growing crops. During the dry season, when food is scarce and
there is less likelihood of crop damage, the herd is allowed to graze more
extensively. Dry season grazing, low genetic potential, the nomadic practice
of the Foulah, and a marked antagonism between crop and livestock farmers
are the more serious problems facing livestock development. Sierra Leone
FAO Survey in 1967 indicated that over 60% of slaughtered animals are ex-
ported on the hoof. Smallstock production is likewise poorly developed.
Per capita meat consumption is low in comparison with most countries, but
fish is generally available and makes a more important contribution to the
supply of animal protein.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGhAThI)D AORICULTUHAL DEVELOPMUfNT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Rainfall Records
Lat.    Long.   No. of
Station       IN      'W       Years I/   Jan.  Feb.  March  A      May  June  July Ao  Sept.  Oct0  Nov   Dec.  Total
-   --------    -- …- ---- --ins …-------- …-…-------          ---.-- …----
Makeni        8053t   120031     32       0.27  0.31   1.37  3.59 8.77 14.90 19.40 25.25 21.67  16.29  7093  1.08  120.83
Teko          80491   12002t     14       0.49  0.38   1.50  3.58 8.68 14.12 19.87 22.70 21.23  14.69  6.20  0.86  114.30
Katonga g/   8 41t  12 lot        8       0.80  0.18   0.59  1.40 6h44 14.29 20.63 24.08 18J41  13.97  7.03  0.53  108,35
/ Up to 1966 only.
g/ Just outside project area.
I  '



Volve 2
Annex 1
SIERRA LEONE                             Table 2
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Calenar of Fam opgia
1. Season      2. Season              .3 Season
Marc Apr. May        July Aug. ept.Oct. |Nov. Dec. Jan. IFebr.
b ushing
burni g                           r
r lant:ng
_ eedi g
fe cing
h1arve ting
b rd  sin
thresh4ng
b ush ng
pl ughipg
nu sery
transpl nti g
arve tinc
bir  scaring
thres ing



Volume 2
Annex 1
Table 3
SIERR  LEIONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Labor Capacity of Average Farm Family
Total                                    Working
House-   Working                         Days
hold      on        Conversion   Man     Per       ---Mandays/Month-
Members  Fam        Factor       Units   Month    Total            male
Men              2.5      2.05        1.0        2.05     20       41             41
Women            2.7      2.45        0.7        1.72     20       34.4
Children         5.2      1.10        0.3       0.33      20        6.6
Dependents       1.8      0.80        0.5       0.40      20        8              4
Total        12.2      6.40                                     90             45
Source: GDI Survey Makeni 1973



Volume 2
Annex 2
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Farm and Crop Development
Table of Contents
Page No.
A.   Inland Valley Swamps  ...................      1
Background  ............................*..*.   1
Rice Development  ..... . .......      ... ..   1
Rotational Crops  .........................    3
B.   Upland Development  ....  ........  ...........  4
Background  ...............................  4
Rice Production  ................... ..... ..  4
Groundnut Production       ...................   5
Other Rotational Crops  .... &....*..O ....   7
C.   Resource Evaluation . .......................  7
Development Centers  .............             7
Conservation and Extension  ................    8
D.   Livestock Development      .....................   9
E.   Forestry Development .     ...................  10
Table 1   Swamp Development Costs
Table 2   One Acre Budget - Swamp Rice
Table 3  One Acre Development Cash Flow - Swamp Rice
Table 4   One Acre Budget - Upland Rice (Permanent Cultivation)
Table 5  One Acre Budget - Upland Rice (Shifting Cultivation)
Table 6   One Acre Budget - Upland Groundnuts (Permanent Cultivation)
Table 7   One Acre Budget - Upland Groundnuts (Shifting Cultivation)
Table 8  One Acre Budget - Upland Groundnuts (Shifting Cultivation)
Table 9   Land Classification by Development Center
Table 10  Project Cropping Program
Table 11  Husk Rice Production Projection
Table 12  Groundnut Production Projection
Table 13  Livestock Improvement Costs






Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Farm and Crop Development
A. Inland Valley Swamps
Background
1.        Inland valley swamps are a particular feature of the topography of
Sierra Leone and can occupy from between 2 to 10% of the total land in certain
areas. An inland valley swamp is defined as, "a seasonally inundated, flat
branching valley floor, lacking well defined or efficient natural drainage."
It lacks other riverine landforms being essentially a headwater feature, and
is generally covered with grasses and Rafia Palm. It Is a product of post
rejuvenation valley in-filling and impeded drainage. The soils are
'hydromorphic'.
2.        Traditionally farmers have relied on cultivating upland soils for
subsistence requirements, but during the last 15 years there has been an
increasing tendency to utilize swamps both for main crop rice and for partial-
ly irrigated out of season crops. Until recently, this was officially en-
couraged by MANR, which provided subsidies of up to Le 30.00 (US$37.50) per
acre to farmers who cleared, stumped, and applied water control measures
in the swamps. Isolated demonstrations of successful swamp development have
been set up by the Taiwanese and Peace Corps' Volunteers over the past six
years or so, but these have proved insufficient to encourage farmers as a
whole to develop swamps fully without the benefit of direct advice on layout,
construction, and close supervision. Notable exceptions to this are the
Tikonko Extension Center near Bo in Southern Province, and the Eastern Area
Project where technical advice and supervision have been provided with im-
pressive results.
3.        Owing primarily to population pressure on the uplands, around 85%
of the 1,300 swamps in the project area are cultivated to some extent at
present and few present major problem regarding tree clearing though most
require some additional stumping. Water control measures are, however,
virtually non-existent.
Rice Development
4.        Water Control.  Without water control there is little check on
weed growth, and hand weeding tends to be carried out only spasmodically
during the early stages of crop growth. Since the crop is mostly established
by broad casting, effective weed control is difficult to achieve.



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 2
5.        Experience in the Eastern Area Project, and elsewhere in Sierra
Leone, has shown that effective water control is possible using a low
technology, labor intensive approach. The primary factors influencing swamp
planning are catchment, drainage lines and soils, since concentration of
water in drainage channels constructed in sandy soils could result in serious
soil erosion. In general, the swamp soils are lighter than those in the
Eastern Area Project, where most experience of swamp development has been
gained, and swamp gradients are generally steeper. As a result, most swamps
will require contour levelling (a'square' design is used at EAP) and greater
use will be made of grass floodways to avoid exposing the sandy subsoils.
Soil sampling along the center level of drainage channels will be an essential
prerequisite of swamp development.
6.        Flood water damage to bunds and distribution channels will be
highest at the beginning of the first rainy season after construction, before
the works have become grassed over. This can be kept to a minimum by ensur-
ing that spillways are cut in the header bunds (as is done in the Eastern
Area Project) and by arranging sand bags in the header sluice so that they
blow out when water pressure becomes too great. The stability of swamp
peripheral channels will, in a similar manner, be dependent on the material
through which the channels pass. Attempts to maximize the acreage developed
per swamp could force the peripheral channels into the sandy swamp margin
soils and this must be avoided. In situations where this is unavoidable,
grasses should be planted to hold the bunds together. Chewing cane has been
suggested as a suitable plant as it is much relished by 'cutting grass' and
may serve to reduce this rodents excursions into the swamp rice fields.
7.        Swamp planning and technical layout will be undertaken by trained
Land Use Planners of the Conservation and Land Development Services Section.
Actual implementation of soil and water conservation programs will, however,
be the responsibility of extension staff. Digging and bunding work will be
carried out by farmers in organized swamp development groups, to whom develop-
ment loans will be extended, repayable over 5 years at 8%. Estimated average
swamp development costs are given in Table 1.
8.        Varieties.  Varieties grown by farmers in the project area are
almost wholly local and unidentified. They are leafy, day length sensitive
and show limited responses to applications of fertilizer, but do not suffer
much damage from insects, nor fungal diseases. They are almost invariably
long-term varieties maturing in about 180 days or more. Improved seed is
generally in short supply in Sierra Leone and few varietal trials under farm
conditions have been carried out. This is particularly the case in the
northern area though isolated demonstration indicates that marked yield
increase would result.



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 3
9.        Varieties recommended for inland swamps are BD2, IR20 and IR442;
supplies will initially be secured from the West African Rice Research
Station (WARRS), Rokupr and from the Eastern Area Project seed farms. A
seed farm will also be established under the Northern Area Project and will
supply seed from year 3 (1977).
10.       Fertilizers.  Few swamps receive fertilizer application due mainly
to a lack of distribution and credit facilities. Nutrient status of the
swamp soils is generally low, and the few trials that have been conducted
have shown good responses to nitrogen and phosphate. Potassium is not ex-
pected to be a limiting factor as large quantities are contained in the
seepage water from the uplands. Provisional recommendations, based on
calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN) and single superphosphate (SSP) are set at
44 lbs N and 33 lbs P205 per acre (1.5 bag of each). These, however, are
composite averages, and during project implementation adjustment will be
made both for soil nutrient levels and for managerial ability.
11.       Sprays.  Although insect damage is not currently recognized as
being economically important, it is expected to increase following general
intensification of rice production in a relatively confined area. Insecticide
and spraying costs have therefore been included on the assumption that 25%
of the crop will require spraying annually. Chemical weed control techniques
have been insufficiently evaluated to make general recommendations to farmers.
They will, however, be kept under review during project implementation.
Until the benefits of crop spraying are properly evaluated sprayers will
not be provided to farmers, and the project will, instead, operate a spraying
service for which a flat cash charge of 60 per acre will be made. Details
of the spraying service are given in Annex 4.
12.       Benefits.  The above technological improvements are expected to
result in an average yield increase of husk rice from the existing 1,200 lbs/
acre to 2,400 lbs/acre. A one acre budget for swamp rice is given in Table
2 and a one acre development cash flow is given in Table 3.
Rotational Crops
13.       There are few swamps in the area with sufficient year round water
to allow double rice cropping. Most cultivated swamps are dry by February
and are either uncropped during the dry season, or planted to a range of
vegetable crops of which the most important are cassava, maize, sweet
potato and groundnuts plus small individual areas of onions, beans, cowpeas,
tomatoes, garlic and chillies. The project will actively encourage intensified
vegetable production, particularly onions, through fertilizer use and improved
cultural practices. There is little information available, however, on exist-
ing and market potential is therefore unknown. Large quantities of onions
and tomato puree are imported (annually averaging around 5,000 and 2,500
tons respectively) but the scope for import substitution would be limited to



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 4
a large extent by supply, seasonality, storage problems and consumer pre-
ferences. For the predominantly domestically produced and consumed crops,
the market is likely to be extremely sensitive to supply fluctuations though
there may be export potential for certain crops such as chillies. In view
of these uncertainties it is unrealistic to forecast production increases
from dry season crops. Project management will investigate market and
production potential during project implementation, and the revolving
credit fund would be able to provide dry season credit funds for those crops
that might be grown.
3. Upland Development
Background
14.       The upland farm is the traditional area of cultivation in Sierra
Leone and accounts for over 60% of natioanal rice production. However, this
prominent position in the agriculture sector has not been equalled by develop-
ment effort, for the very nature of upland farming and its deep-rooted im-
plications in the social life of the people poses formidable problems for
technological innovations. Against this background it is not surprising
that MANR extension effort has largely excluded the uplands. Nevertheless,
with increased pressure on land, declining fallow periods and a growing
deficit in domestic rice production, this important area cannot be ignored.
15.       Two categories of upland can be identified, namely the areas of
shifting cultivation and the areas that are permanently or semi-permanently
cropped. The latter are usually on inherently superior soils around the
village houses and on the shoulders of swamps and water courses, and cover
about 4% of the gross cultivable land. On this area, which is important
for groundnuts and vegetables, significant impacts from improved seed,
fertilizer application, and planned rotations are expected. The remaining
upland is under shifting cultivation. Although the problems of developing
this important area remain largely unresolved, it has the characteristic of
cccupying such a large acreage (around 70% of total cultivated land) that
marginal improvements in productivity per acre could have a significant
impact on overall national production.
Rice Production
16.       Varieties.  These are predominantly of the Oryza glaberrina mixed
types which are low yielding but relatively disease resistant, and preferred
for consumption to introduced varieties. Anethoda and CP4 are the currently
recommended improved varieties but are not commonly grown in the north.
Cther more promising varieties such as TX52.10.1 have, however, been pro-
duced and tested at WARRS, and recent trials in Liberia have demonstrated
that varieties such as TX52, LAC23 and IR442-2-58 are capable of high yields
under upland conditions.



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 5
17.       Improved, dressed seed will be introduced to upland farmers through
a system of mass saturation whereby the project will exchange on a bushel
for bushel basis all seed supplies in selected villages. This will be followed
in successive years by replacement of seed by extension staff and redis-
tribution of second year seed among farmers (organized through village and
chiefdom committees) to allow complete seed replacement every five years.
Seed would be obtained initially from WARRS and the Eastern Area Project,
and from the project's own seed farm from year 3 onwards.
18.       Fertilizer.  Upland rice is commonly grown with mixtures of other
crops, and since few fertilizer trials have been conducted under upland
farm conditions the effect of applications on the entire crop mixture is
unknown. Moreover, nitrogen topdressing on steep slopes with high rainfall
intensity could prove ineffective and quite likely uneconomic in view of
current high prices. On the permanently cropped uplands, which are flatter
and where pure stand cultivation within a planned rotation would be en-
couraged, significant fertilizer responses are expected. Provisional re-
commendations based on CAN and SSP are set at 29 lbs N and 22 lbs P205 per
acre (a bag of each). These, however, are composite averages and during
project implementation adjustments will be made both for soil nutrient
levels and management ability.
19.       Benefits.  Improved seed, seed dressing and fertilizers (for
permanently cropped rice only) are expected to increase yields as follows:
Before Development After Development Increment
------------- lbs husk rice/acre -------------
Permanently Cropped        800                  1,800           1,000
Shifting Cultivation       500                    650             150
One acre budgets for upland rice under permanent and shifting cultivation
are given in Tables 4 and 5.
Groundnut Production
20.       Varieties.  The most common varieties grown are Marace, Kono and
Gambia which are short cycle Spanish types with non-dormant seeds. Although
isolated variety trials have been carried out they have been insufficient
to make general varietal recommendations and, in any case, have not been
supported by any systematic bulking and distribution of seed. However,
comparative trials, under IRHO supervision, have recently been started in
the project area, and include varieties adapted to conditions of low sun-
shine and long cycly Virginia types which may be suitable for dry season
harvesting. Successful varieties will also be tested for their acceptability
in the local diet and for their value as oil nuts. While unable to base
development projections on proven varietal improvements, it is realistic to
expect such improvements to materialize.



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 6
21.       Improved seed (in shell) and seed dressing would be distributed by
mass saturation as for upland rice with complete replacement every five years.
Since yield increments are unproven, they are kept intentionally low and are
assumed to amount to 100 lbs of unshelled nuts/acre.
22.       Fertilizers.  Soils in the area are known to be acid and phosphate
Cdeficient and a small number of trials in the area have shown significant
individual and combined responses to phosphates and calcium. Phosphates,
through basal application at time of planting, are easier to handle under
upland conditions, and have been included for both permanent and shifting
cultivation. Provisional recommendations based on single superphosphate
(which may give rise to additional benefits from sulphur content) are set
at 22 lbs P205 per acre (a bag) for both land classes. It is assumed that
farmers will apply fertilizer to only 50% of the upland area under shifting
cultivation.
23.       Sprays.  Pests and diseases among groundnuts do not appear to be
important in the project area. Rosette diesease occurs but on a small scale,
and while Cercospora leaf spot is common, it occurs mainly on the mature
leaves when the crop is ready for harvesting and does not, therefore, appear
to have any significant effect on yields. Various fungi affect plants at
the seedling stage but the extent of damage is not known, and will in any
case by controlled by the use of seed dressing. Little is known about the
incidence of Aspergillus flavus although conditions at time of harvesting
would appear to be ideal for its development. Present rotational practices
are probably responsible for the low incidence of pests and diseases and
provided these are continued they are not expected to increase. Project
management will, however, pay particular attention to this during implement-
ation.
24.       Benefits.  Improved seed, seed dressing and fertilizers are ex-
pected to increase yields as follows:
Before          After
Development    Development   Increment
…lbs unshelled nuts/acre ------
Plermanently Cropped
Seed and Fertilizer                    1,000           1,600          600
Shifting Cultivation
Seed and Fertilizer                      900           1,300          400
Seed Only                                900           1,000          100
One acre budgets for these three land categories are given in Tables 6
through &.



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 7
Other Rotational Crops
25.       While direct project benefits have been included only for rice
and groundnuts, the project will be essentially concerned with the farm
system as a whole. This will be particularly the case with the upland
areas under permanent cultivation for which suitable rotations will be intro-
duced. This will be carried out in close association with the Rokel Leaf
Tobacco Company subsidiary of the Aureol Tobacco Company which is responsible
for tobacco development in the project area. Methods for preserving soil
structure and fertility in the uplands will be a particular area of attention
for project management.
C. Resource Evaluation
26.       Development Centers.  In terms of land and human resources the
project area is extremely variable, rendering average figures of doubtful
value for detailed planning. Basic physical information was, therefore,
refined by selecting 20 major population centers and cataloguing, in detail,
the resources contained within a radius of 3 miles of each. The three mile
radius, representing a gross area of about 18,000 acres, was chosen on the
basis that it defined an area over which an extension service could be
expected to operate efficiently and within which the distances involved would
not be prohibitive for farmer transport of agricultural inputs. It should
be stressed that this approach is essentially a planning technique and does
not infer that islands of development will be established. On the contrary,
it is anticipated that maximum farmer contact by the extension and land
planning services will tend to radiate from the centers in a manner dictated
primarily by population density and access.
27.       Development activity will be organized and controlled on a chiefdom
basis, and in this regard, certain circles have been truncated to avoid
crossing chiefdom boundaries. Their location is shown on the Map appended
to this report.
28.       Collectively, the centers cover about 50% of the gross land area
outside the bolilands and it is assumed that farmer contact and the develop-
ment programs proposed will be 100% effective within each center. (Any
actual shortfall being compensated by additional contacts outside the plan-
ning circles.)
29.       Within each development circle the area occupied by steep hills
and mountains was excluded along with an assumed 10% of gross area occupied
by rivers, roads and settlements. This gave a net cultivable upland area
of just over 200,000 acres. Swamps within each circle were also counted.
Previous surveys in the area have given estimates of average swamp size
varying from 15 acres to 7.6 acres. The largest estimated (15 acres) was



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 8
derived from air photo interpretation and represents gross swamp area and
observations suggest that 40% of the gross area is unsuitable for swamp rice
development, leaving a net area of 6,000 acres.
30.       Estimates of farmer populations were made from taxpayer counts
using a conversion factor supplied by MANR planning unit. Rounded, this
gave a total of 8,000 farmers which, when applied to the gross useable uplanfd
area, gave an average of 26 gross acres. Table 9 lists the 20 development
centers and their associated land resources within a 3 mile radius.
31.       Based on survey information for the area, and aerial observations,
the following cultivated land areas are included for development:
Land Category                Crop                  Acres
Inland Swamp                 Rice                  6,000
Upland
Permanent                  Rice                  1,250
Permanent                  Groundnuts            2,500
Shifting                   Rice                 24,000
Shifting                   Groundnuts            8,000
Total               41,750
The proposed cropping program is given in Table 10, and production pro-
jections for rice and groundnuts are given in Tables 11 and 12.
32.       Conservation and Extension.  Erosion in the uplands is, as yet,
not serious 1/ due primarily to root preservation, minimum tillage and a high
proportion of lateritic pebbles in the soils. It is inevitable, however,
that as land pressures increase and fallow periods decrease a soil conserv-
ation protlem will result, and this is already evident in certain areas
where permanent upland cropping is practised. From the outset, land planning
and extension will be based on individual swamp catchments with simple
conservation measures applied to the permanently cropped areas (such as
storm cut-off drains and correct ridge alignment) and with cropping patterns
based on strict land use principals.
33.       Agricultural assistants, who would be based at development centers,
would be responsible for implementing land development plans prepared by the
Conservation and Land Development Services Sector.
1/   There are a few remarkable exceptions to this generalization.



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 9
D. Livestock Development
34.       The project will investigate the potential for cattle development
in the northern area for which the major limitants are: the poor beef and
milk potential of the Ndama; trypanomiasis resistance in relation to
upgrading Ndama with other breeds; the long dry season and related nutri-
tional problems; and the land tenure system in connection with grazing
rights of pastoralists.
35.       The project will develop three fact finding cattle farms of about
1,000 acres each, and for which possible sites adjacent to perennial rivers
have been identified. In consultation and agreement with the chiefdom authori-
ties, the project will demarcate the ranch boundaries and select groups of
traditional cattle owners for ranch settlement with tenure acceptable to all
three parties. Finance will be provided for minimum infrastructure require-
ments, including boundary fencing and cattle handling facilities.
36.       The strategy behind the development of these ranches will be
simplicity and duplicity for the future. The ranches will be closely super-
vised by a project livestock specialist and will:
(a) determine productive potential of the pure Ndama under
improved management conditions including calving rates,
mortality, liveweight gain, and carcass quality:
(b) establish stocking capacities of natural pastures, and
identify simple methods of improved fodder production,
particularly during the dry season, from the associated
inland swamps;
(c) in association with veterinary staff at the project
veterinary station at Teko, identify the tsetse fly
and contingent trypanosomiasis problems associated
with the ranches and experiment with upgrading of
Ndama using imported semen of selected animals particularly
Sahiwal (a Zebu of high milk potential) on the ranches
and at Teko. The progency of such crosses will be held
under prophalaxis, the practicality of which will be
assessed; and
(d) assess the social and tenurial implication of any
potential development proposals.
37.       The Livestock Specialist will also determine the possibility of
stall-feeding, on a smallholder basis, using crop residues. This has been
successful in other parts of Africa, and suitable smallholders will be



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 10
selected and provided with unfinished steers, for supervised fattening
under farm conditions. In addition, assistance will be given to selected
villages, and particularly the town of Makeni, in those areas free of trypanoso-
miasis to establish small pig units. In all cases, the fattening systems will
be closely monitored and evaluated to determine their economic feasibility.
38.       The Livestock Specialist will assist the MANR Planning Unit in
formulating livestock development proposals in Sierra Leone, and it is hoped
that after three or four years, based on the findings of the project,
appropriate plans can be formulated for a national livestock development
program. Funds for the Livestock Specialists and two Livestock Assistants,
and for minimal development requirements of the three fact finding farms
are included under the Extension and Training Services Section of the project.
A small amount for unidentified credit (US$20,000 total) is included under
the project credit fund for the purchase of immature feeder cattle and breeding
pigs. A full assessment of the actual credit requirement for each potential
sub-borrower will be made by the Livestock Specialist during project im-
plementation.
F. Forestry Development
39.       Woodfuel for Tobacco Curin.  The need to consider a forestry
component for the project is based on the necessity of providing woodfuel
for curing tobacco. There are two methods of curing with different estimated
demands of woodfuel:
Fire-curing: 1-1/2 to 2 cords woodfuel per acre of tobacco pa
Flue-curing: 30 cords woodfuel per acre of tobacco pa
40.       Source of Woodfuel Suppljy.  There are two possible sources of
supply of woodfuel: from the farm bush cleared annually for cultivation;
or from plantations, either those already being grown on protected forests
in the area or from woodfuel plantations to be grown specially for this
ourpose. The requirement of woodfuel for fire-curing is so small that there
ls little doubt that it can be collected as required by the farmer from
cultivated areas at no cost other than labor time. The requirement of wood-
fuel for flue-curing is much larger and needs special consideration.
41.       Bush Woodfuel.  Woodfuel yields from the farm bush are not known
and need study: but have been suggested as being from 5 to 10 cords per
acre of 6 vear old farm bush. An individual farmer cultivating from 1/3
to 2/3 acre of tobacco could then obtain his woodfuel requirement from between
1 and 4 acres of farm bush if yields are as suggested above. However, the
organization of collecting all the woodfuel from the cultivated area would
be considerable in the absence of roads and, in any case, this woodfuel is
regarded as an important source of cash to the farmer throughout the year



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 11
and especially in times when no other income is coming in, being sold in
small lots at roadside. Indications based on the current need to make special
arrangements to supply plantation grown woodfuel for the present experimental
scale flue-curing, are that it will not be possible to rely on the provision of
bush woodfuel and that special woodfuel plantations will have to be grown.
42.       Plantation Woodfuel.  There are some existing Forestry Division
plantations on protected forests in the project area and these can be used
as a source of supply. However, Gmelina is the main species grown and
is not altogether suitable for this purpose as it takes such a long time
to dry out and does not have a very high calorific value. Nevertheless
existing plantations will have to be used to supplement woodfuel supplies
from the farm bush until other arrangements can be made. Even yields from
Gmelina plantations are not known but may be about 20 cords per acre at age
7 and at this rate a 3-1/2 acre of Gmelina plantation should provide suf-
ficient woodfuel for 1/3 acre of flue-cured tobacco.
43.       Gmelina is not the best species for woodfuel but there is
virtually no evidence for the growth of alternative species such as Eucalyptus,
Teak and Cassia, all of which require research on their suitability, growth
and woodfuel production over a range of sites in the tobacco growing area,
before their planting could be recommended on other than an experimental
scale.
44.       Required Plantation Develypment Program.  The projected acreage
of flue-cured tobacco development totalling 375 acres by 1979 will require
11,250 cords of wood for curing in that year which could be obtained by
clearfelling about 560 acres of 7 year old Gmelina plantation. As this is
an annual woodfuel requirement a total plantation area of about 4,000 acres
would be necessary to provide a continuous woodfuel supply. Further develop-
ment of flue-cured tobacco over and above 375 acres would require a cor-
respondingly larger woodfuel plantation development program. The size of
the program and the timing of the tobacco development requires that the
most suitable fast growing high calorific value woodfuel species should be
grown so that the land area requirement, growing cost and volume of woodfuel
required can all be minimized. Until research provides information on the
most suitable woodfuel species to grow under project conditions, it is not
possible to lay down a plantation development program.
45.       Need for Research.  Immediate research by carrying out trials of
alternative woodfuel species, especailly Eucalyptus, is fully justified.
The urgent nature of this need is emphasized by the fact that there are
only about 750 acres of forest plantations within 15 miles of the likely
center of flue-cured tobacco growing in Paki Masabong chiefdom. The
research need is for an investigation of growth and woodfuel yields under
a range of site conditions for a) farm bush, b) Gmelina, c) Cassia, d) Teak
and e) a number of Eucalyptus species.



Volume 2
Annex 2
Page 12
46.       Implementation of Research Program.  The work could not be under-
taken by the Forestry Division alone because of shortage of suitably ex-
perienced staff and shortage of financial and vehicle support. The work
needs to be undertaken by the project with the assistance of the Forestry
Division who should second some staff to the project for the limited periods
necessary. The Forestry Division is in a position to call on help from the
Tropical Silviculture Unit of the Commonwealth Forestry Institute at Oxford,
England who could give valuable assistance in selecting species to be tried
and in suggesting experimental design. The staff needs are one professional
forester with supporting staff (forest ranger, forest guard, nuerseryman,
driver and clerk/typist) for limited periods. The work should be undertaken
by the Division Forest Officer, Makeni and his staff under the direction of
the project research officer; making certain to liaise with the Forestry
Division research officer at Bambawo.
47.       Implementation of Plantation Development.  Ouite apart from deciding
which woodfuel species should be planted a decision needs to be made on the
organization required to carry out plantation development and on the setting
aside of land for this purpose. Plantations could be planted either indi-
vidually by the tobacco grower in the immediate vicinity of his curing barn
or by some central organization on land set aside by the chiefdom for the
purpose. There is much to be said for central plantations with a woodfuel
subsidy scheme repaid from the price obtained for cured leaf, provided plant-
ation blocks are kept quite small so that transport distances are not very
great. Major plantation development should be provided for in Phase II and
need not be considered for the initial part of the project. Nevertheless,
it would be wise to complete the planting up of Bombali Sebora and KMR
protected forests where there is a total of about 950 acres unplanted and
it is proposed provisionally that these areas should be planted to Gmelina
at the rate of 300 acres per year and be converted to some other crop as
soon as a better alternative is available. This could be done by the Forestry
Division for a cost of about Le 50 per acre or a total annual cost of Le
15,000. The project would provide funds Le 40,000 to enable an initial de-
velopment of a research and trial planting program. The funds (Vol. 2,
Annex 5, Table 1) would cover staff and labor requirements.



Volume 2
Annex 2
Table 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHEBN AREA PROJECT
Swamp Development Cost
(Mandays and Leones/Acre
Labor                                           Year 1     Year 2      Total
Felling, clearing, stumping          Mandays       5                      5
Underbrushing                           n          5           -          5
Excavating Main Channels                "         30         15          45
Excavating Side Channels               ii         15          5          20
Levelling and Bunding                             20          5          25
Total                     Mandays       75         25        100
Less farmers own labor                            25         25          50
Hired labor                                       50           -         50
@ Rate 85¢/day                       Leones       42.50        -         42.50
Material
Tools                               Leones         6.50        -          6.50
Total Development Cost                It          49.00        -         49.00
Development Loan                      it          50.00        -         50.00
July 19, 1974



Volume 2
Annex 2
Table 2
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEIDPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
One Acre Farm Budget /
Inland Swamp Rice
Unit          Undeveloped      Developed    Increment
Output
Yield of husk rice              lbs/acre          1,200           2,400         1,200
Gross return @ Le 51bushel      Le                  100             200           100
Input
Labor:
Canal maintenance             Mandays             -                 4             4
Land preparation              Mandays              25              27             2
Nursery/transplanting         Mandays              15              17             2
Weeding/fencing               Mandays              12              13             1
Harvesting/transport          Mandays              12              21             9
Threshing                     Mandays               8              15             7
Total Labor                                72             97            25
Crop Inputs:
Seed ?/                       Le                    5               6.0           1.0
Fertilizer I/ N               Le                  -                13.50         13.50
PIs r          Le (-                                15.00         15.00
Interest on Credit (10%)      Le                  _                 3.10          3.10
Spraying  /                   Le                  -                  .60          -.60
Miscellaneous                  o Le                 1               2             1
Total                 Le                    6              40.20        34.20
Net Return                      Le                   94             159.80         65.80
Net Return/Manday               le                     1.30           1.65          2.63
Investment incentive 6/         Factor                                              1.92
Income incentive 7/             Factor                                              1.7
L Excludes swamp development costs.
/ Dressed seed @ Le 6/bushel issued every fifth year.
X Based on 1 bags SA plus 1½ bags SSP at unsubsidized rate.
J See Annex 4
l/ Tool replacement and replacement of soft bags on drainage canals.
6/ Incremental increase in net return as a multiple of incremental increase in
cash input.
7/ Net return after development as a multiple of net return before development.
August 5, 1974



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEIDPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Swamp Rice - One-Acre Development Cash Flow
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5       Year 6    Years 7-20
Yield of husk rice               lbs       2,400      2,400      2,400     2,400    2,400       2,400        2,400
Source of Funds
Value of husk rice @ Le 5/
bushel                       Le           200       200        200       200       200        200          200
Development loan               Le            50
Seasonal loan                  Le            31.20     31.20      31.20     31.20    31.20       31.20        31.20
Total                  Le          281.20    231.20    231.20    231.20   231.20        231.20       231.20
Application of Funds
Development costs              Le            49
Seasonal inputs                Le            37.10     37.10      37.10     37.10    37.10       37.10        37.10
Debt service
Development  /               Le                      12.50      12.50     12.50    12.50       12.50
Seasonal V                   Le           34.,30     34.30     34.30      34.30    34.30       34.30        34.30
Total                  Le          120.40      83.90     83.90      83.90    83.90       83.90        71.4o
Net return 1/                    Le           160.Bo    147.30    147.30    147.30   147.30       1L7.30       159.80
Family labor                     Mandays      122       122         97        97        97         97           97
Net return/manday                Le             1.32      1.21       1.52      1.52      1.52       1.52         1.65
Incremental cash flow            Le            66.80     53.30      53.30     53.30    53.30       53.30        65.80
/ Repaici over 5 years at 8% but rounded to equal installments,
/ Repaid at 10%.
/ Net return includes value of home consumed rice.  This couldi originate from swamp or upland and cannot be    
translated into financial terms on a per swamp acre basis.                                                                 X
Net return minus return before development (see Table 2).
August 5, 1974



Volume 2
Annex 2
Table 4
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA  PROJECT
One Acre Farm Budzet
Upland Rice - Permanent Cultivation
Unit         Undeveloped       Developed    Increment
Output
Yield of husk rice              lbs/acre            800          1,800         1,000
Gross return Q Le 5/bushel      Le                   67            150            83
Input
Labor:
Land preparation              Mandays              15             20             5
Planting                                            6              6
Weeding/fencing                                    17             22             5
Harvesting/transport                                8             17             9
Threshing                                           5             11             6
Total Labor                               51              76           25
Crop Inputs:
Seed 1/                       Le                    5              6.o           1.0
Fertilizer ?/ N               Le                   -                9.0          9.0
PO¢           Le                   -               10.0         10.0
Interest on orea2.  (10%)     Le                                    2.0          2.0
Miscellaneous 3/              Le                    1              1            -
Total                 Le                   6              28.00         22.00
Net Return                      Le                   61             12240         61.0
Net Return/Manday               Le                    1.20           1.6           2.4
Investment Incentive  /         Factor                                             2.77
Income Incentive 5/             Factor                                             2.00
1/ Dressed seed O Le 8/bushel issued every fifth year.
B Based on 1 bag SA and 1 bag SSP at unsubsidized rate.
3/ 'fool replacement.
Incremental increase in net return as a multiple of incremental increase in
cash input.
5/ Net return after development as a multiple of net return before development.
August 5, 1974



Volume 2
Annex 2
Table 5
SIERRA LEONE
IINTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
One Acre Farm Budget 1/
Upland Rice - Shifting Cultivation
Unit       Undeveloped         Developed    Increment
Output
Yield of husk rice              lbs/acre        500                650         150
Gross Return Q Ie 5/bushel      Le               41.70              54.20       12.50
Input
Labor:
Brushing, clearing, burning  Mandays           14                 14
Planting                      Mandays           7                 7
Weeding/fencing               Mandays          17                 17           _
Harvesting/transport          Mandays           5                  7           2
Threshing                     Mandays           3                  4           1
Total                Mandays          46                 49            3
Crop Inputs:
Seed 27                       Le                2.5                3.0          .50
Miscellaneous                 Le                1.0                1.0         -
Total                 Le               3.5                4.0           .50
Net Return                      Le               38.20              50.20       12.00
Net Return per Manday           Le                0.83               1.10         4.2
Investment Incentive 2          Factor                                           24.o0
Income Incentive  j             Factor                                           1.31
2 Exclude revenue from timber and crop mixtures.
/ Dressed exchange seed issued to outgrowers for bulking and dispersal.
2 Incremental increase in net return as a multiple of incremental increase in
cash input.
W Net return after development as a multiple of net return before development.
August 5, 1974



Volume, 2
Annex 2
Table 6
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT II
NORTHERNI AREA POEgCT
One Acre Farm Budget
Upland Groundnuts - Permanent Cultivation
Unit           Undeveloped    Developed    Increment
Output
Yield of unshelled nuts         lbs/acre         1,000         1,600          600
Gross return @ 5 #/b            Le                  50            80           30
Input
Labor:
Land preparation             Mandays               9            10           1
Planting                     Mandays               6             8            2
Weeding                      Mandays               8            10            2
Harvesting/stripping         Mandays              12            15            3
Transport                    Mandays               6             8           2
Total                Mandays              41            51          10
Crop Inputs& 1
Seed                         La                    5             6.o          1.0
Fertilizer P2O5              Le                   -             10.0         10.0
Interest on credit (10%)     Le                   -              1.20        1.20
Miscellaneous                Le                    1             1          -
Total                Le                    6            18.20        12.20
Net Return                     Le                   44             61.80       17.80
Net Return/Manday              Le                    1.05           1.21        1.80
Investment incentive ?/        Factor                                           1.L6
Income incentive I/            Factor                                           1.41
2 Seed rate 60.70 lbs shelled nuts/acre - equivalent to 100 lbs unshelled nuts,
new seed at 6¢/lb issued every 5th year.
g/ Incremental increase in net return as a multiple of incremental increase in
cash input.
/ Net return after development as a multiple of net return before development.
August 5, 1974



Volume 2
Annex 2
Table 7
SIERRA. LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
One Acre Crop Budget
Upland Groundnuts- Shifting Cultivation
(using improved seed and fertilizer)
Unit       Undeveloped    Developed    Increment
Output
Yield of unshelled nuts         lbs/acre         900         1,300          400
Gross return @ 5 IAb            Le                45            65           20
Input
Labor:
Land preparation              Mandays           10            11            1
Planting                      Mandays            6             6           -
Weeding                       Mandays            5              5          -
Harvesting/stripping          Mandays           11            13            2
Transport                     Mandays            6             8            2
Total                Mandays           38             43            5
Crop Inputs: 2/
Seed                          Le                 5              6.oo        1.00
Fertilizer P205               Le                -              10.00       10.00
Interest on credit (10%)    L e                               1.20         1.20
Miscellaneous                 Le                 1              1          -
Total                 Le                6             18.20        12.20
Net return                      Le                39             46.80        7.80
Net return/manday               Le                 1.02           1.10        1.60
Investment incentive  /         Factor                                        0.64
Income incentive  /             Factor                                        1.20
/ Seed rate 60-70 lbs nuts/acre - equivalent to 100 lbs unshelled nuts,
new seed at 6¢/lb issued every 5th year.
/ Incremental increase in net return as a multiple of incremental increase in
cash input.
/ Net return after development as a multiple of net return before development.
August 5, 1974



Volume 2
-Annex 2
Table 8
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
One Acre Farm Budget
Upland Groundnuts - Shifting Cultivation
(using improved seed only)
Unit          Undeveloped    Developed    Increment
output
Yield of unshelled nuts         lbs/acre             900         1,000          100
Gross return S 50/lb            Le                     45           50            5
Input
Labor:
Land preparation              Mandays              10             10
Planting                      Mandays               6              6
Weeding                       Mandays               5              5            -
Harvesting/stripping          Mandays              11             12            1
Transport                     Mandays               6              7            1
Total                 Mandays              38             40           2
Crop Input:
Seed  /                       Le                    5              6.0         1.0
Miscellaneous 2/              Le                    1              1
Total                 Le                    6              7.0         1.0
Net return                      Le                    39             43.00        4.0
Net return/manday               Le                    1.02           1.08         2.0
Investment incentive 2          Factor                                            4.0
Income incentive  j             Factor                                            1.10
I/ Seed rate 60-70 lbs shelled nuts/acre - equivalent to 100 lbs unshelled nuts.
New seed S 6¢/lb issued every fifth year.
/ Tool replacements.
2 Incremental increase in net return as a multiple of incremental increase in
cash input.
L Net return after development as a multiple of net return before development.
August 5, 1974        1



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELDPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Land Classification by Development Center
(acres)
---SWAMPS------  ------UPLANDS-----
Market                             Development    No. of               Gross   Net 2    Steep   Non-  /               Gross
Area          Chiefdoms            Center          Farmers    Number  Area    Area       Hills   Useable   Useable   Area
Magburaka    Kholifa               Matam              285        20      300   174          -      1,290     11,610    12,900
Robol              585        47      705   409         -       1,630     14,670    16,300
Paki-Masabong        Mabai              240        48      720   418       2,000    1,440      10,960    14,1400
Mapaki             350        57      855   496         900    1,340      11,160    13,400
Rogbasia           465        36      540   313         800    1,110       9,190    11,100
Makeni        Bombali Sebora       Mabole           1,020        49      735   426          500    1,680     14,620    16,800
Makari Gbanti        Kunshu             470        33      495   287         100    1,020       9,080    10,200
Masungbo           625        40      600   348         800    1,330      11,170    13,300
Masunbum      Safroka Limba        Binkolo            495        53      795   461          800    1,650     14,050    16,500
Masunbum           250        44      660   383       2,300    1,230       8,770    12,300
Gbonkona           130        47      705   409       2,300    1,030       6,970    10,300
Gbendembu     Gbendembu Gowahun    Mambala            235        24      360   209       1,000    1,410      11,690    14,100
Madina             200        12      180   104       1,800      980       7,020     9,800
Kotohun            270        24      360   209       7,500    1,820       8,880    18,200
Kalangba           405        35      525   305       1,300    1,790     14,810    17,900
Gbendembu          280        21      315   183         -      1,440      12,960    14,400
Mango              320        28      420   244         500    1,020       8,680    10,200
Kaimpo        Sanda Tenraran       Kaimpo             630        28      420   244       2,200    1,400      10,400    14,000
Gbanti Kamaranka    Makumre             260         9      135    78       1,500       640      4,260     6,400
Kamaranka          485        33      495   287       4,500    1,680      10,620    16,800
TOTAL                          8,000       688   10,320  5,987     30,800   26,930    211,570   269,300   c
,0H
E Estimated at 58% of gross area.                                                                                               x i
/ Villages, roads, rivers etc. estimated at 10% of gross area.                                                                9 1"'



Volume 2
Annex 2
Table I0
SIERRA IE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Cropping Frograzi
(additional acres by year)
---.Year of Project----
1        2        3        4        Total
By Land Category
Inland Swamps
Rice               500    1,500    2,000    2,000      6,000
Uplands
Permanent Cropped    Rice                -        250      500       500     1,250
Groundnuts         -        500    1,000    1,000      2,500
Shifting Cultivation Rice                500    8,000    8,000    8,000    24,500
Groundnuts         -      1,000    2,000    5,000      8,000
By Crop
Inland Swamp Rice                        500    1,500    2,000    2,000      6,000
Upland Rice - Permanent                  -        250      500       500     1,250
Upland Rice - Shifting                 1,000    5,000   18,000       -      24,000
Total Rice                        1,500    6,750   20,500    2,500    31,250
Upland Groundnuts - Permanent            -        500    1,000    1,000      2,500
Upland Groundnuts   Shifting             -      1,000    2,000    5,000      8,000
Total Groundnuts                    -      1,500    3,000    6,000    10,500
August 5, 1974



Volume 2
Annex 2
Table 11
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Husk Rice Production Projection
-------------Year of Project----------
Before        1          2          3          4
---Acres----------------
Undeveloped Area
Inland Swamp             6,000      5,500      4,000      2,000        -
Upland-Permanent         1,250      1,250      1,000        500        -
Upland-Shifting         24,000     23,750     16,000       8,000       -
--------------Acre-----
Developed Area
Inland Swamp               -          500      2,000      4,ooo      6,000
Upland-Permanent           -          -          250        750      1,250
Upland-Shifting            -          250      8,000     16,000     241,000
---------- lbs/Acre------------
Yields
Inland Swamp             1,200      2,400      2,400      2,400      2,4oo
Upland-Permanent           800      1,800      1,800      1,800      1,800
Upland-Shifting            500        650        650        650        650
-'_________________o000 tons -------------------
Production
Inland Swamp             3.21       3.48       4.29       5.36       6.43
Upland-Permanent          .45 4 5               .56         .78      1.00
Upland-Shifting          5.36       5.37       5.89        6.43       6.96
Total Production      9.02       9.30      10.75      12.57      14.39
Incremental Production            .28       1.72        3.55      5.37
August 5, 1974



Volume 2
Annex 2
Table 12
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEIDPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Groundnut Production ProJections - Unshelled
------Year of Project - ------
Before       1          2         3          4
- ---------------- Acres--------
Undeveloped Areas
Upland-Permanent            2,500      2,500     2,000      1,ooo
Upland-Shifting (1)         4,000      4,000     3,500      2,500
Upland-Shifting (2)         4,000      4,000     3,500      2,500
------------------…Acres…--------------  --
Developed Areas
Upland-Permanent              -          -         500      1,500     2,500
Upland-Shifting (1)           -          -         500      1,500     4,000
Upland-Shifting (2)           -          -         500      1,500     4,000
…---…-------------…lbs/acre----------------
Yields
Upland-PermanentI           1,000      1,600    . 1,600     1,600     1,600
Upland-Shifting (1)           900     1,300      1,300      1,300     1,300
Upland-Shifting (2)           950     1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000
--------------------000 tons - -----------  --
Production
Upland-Permanent            1.12       1.12      1.25       1.52      1.79
Upland-Shifting (1)         1.61       1.61      1.70       1.87      2.32
Upland-Shifting (2)         1.61       1.61      1.63       1.67      1.79
Total Production            4.34       4.34      4.58       5.o6      5.90
Incremental Production       -          -         .25        .72      1.56
Upland-Shifting (1) - Improved seed plus fertilizer
Upland-Shifting (2) - Improved seed only
August 5, 1974



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Livestock Component
Leoneo                                        Foreign
Exchange     Local
Unit Cost        Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4   Total     0/0  Cost    Costs
CAPITAL
Buildg
Senior staff house          22,000           22,000          -          -            -      22,000    60   13,200  8,800
Equipment and vehicles
Land rover                    6,000            60ooo         -           -         6,000    12,000    90   10,800 1,200
Motorcycle                      400              400         -           400         -         800    90      700    100
Fencing                         -              5,000      10,000         -           -      15,000    60    9,000  6,000
Cattle handling facilities                    4 4ooo       8,000         -           -      12,000    30    3,600  8,400
Smen and vet supplies           -              1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000     4,OOO   100    4,000    -
Other equipment                                  500       1,500         -           -       2s,000    50    1,000  1,000
OPERATING COSTS
Staff
Livostock specialist         36,000/7s000     36,000      36,ooo      36,ooo       7,000   115,000   100  108,000  7,000
Livestock assistant           2,600            2,600       2,600       2,600       2,600   lo,4oo    -       -    lo,4oo
Vehicle operation
Land rover                    5,000            5,000       5,ooo       5,000       5,000    20,000    70  14,000  6,ooo
Motorcycle                      500              500         500         500         500     2,000    70    1,40o    600
TOTAL                                    83,000     64,60C      45,500       22,100   215,200    77  165,700 49,500
..nu........_..  _.............  _....   .._.
le,  O






Volume 2
Annex 3
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Civil Works
Page
Roads                                                       1
Water Supplies                                              2
House Construction                                          2
Table 1   Civil Works Program
Table 2   Plant and Vehicle Operating Costs
Table 3   Unit Costs - Bridges and Culverts
Table 4   Unit Cost - Standard Well
Table 5   Costs of Civil Works Construction






Volume 2
Annex 3
Page 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Civil Works
Roads
1.        There is a good network of roads in the project area which connect
most of the important areas of settlement. Generally alignment is good and
although surface standards are moderate to poor this is largely due to in-
adequate camber and to poor drainage in low lying areas. Surfacing over
the formation width of the roads would seldom be required as the predominantly
lateritic soils are well capable of carrying the low volume of traffic that
is likely to use them. Existing small bridges are of a high standard of
construction with concrete decks and well founded mass concrete abutments.
2.        In addition to providing suitable road links between the 20 devel-
opment centers, the existing road network provides good radial links to
outlying areas within the sphere of influence of each center. This is of
particular importance in relation to swamp accessibility, and while not all
of the roads are motorable at present, their very existence, coupled with
the suitability of the soil for construction, means that parts of the net-
work can be upgraded to motorable standard as and when farmer response and
production development so justify it.
3.        In order to schedule road improvements on this basis, a small
construction unit has been included in the project which will upgrade and
maintain an estimated 280 miles of crop extraction roads during the 4 year
phase and construct 20 bridges and 900 pipe culverts and 20 miles of new
roads. Civil works by year of project development are shown in Table 1.
4.        The roads would be graded over an 18"-24" formation, center cambered
from 12"-18" side gullies with turnout drains. Construction would be under-
taken using a grader for shaping the existing formation; a bulldozer for
clearing, site preparation and for constructing turnout drains; and 2 tractor
drawn graders for road maintenance. A service truck is included for in field
maintenance, and repairs would be carried out at the Makeni Agricultural
Workshops. Unit operating costs for plant and vehicles are given in Table 2.
5.        Bridges would be concrete decked with spans of 30'-40', 10 ft deck
widths, concrete abutments and 450 wing walls. Surface level to stream
bed would vary between 5 and 10 feet. Culvert drainage would be provided



Volume 2
Annex 3
Page 2
for low-lying areas with an average of 3 per mile. To ensure year round
accessibility, embankments would be constructed to a minimum of 1.5 x culvert
diameter. Average unit costs for bridge and culvert construction are given
in Table 3.
6.        Water Supplies.  During the five-month dry season, water is scarce
or unpotable in many areas of the project. Long hauls for water are common
and the incidence of stomach sickness is high. In most areas, however,
there is an ample supply of groundwater within 25 feet of ground level
making it possible to sink improved wells at low cost.
7.        The project would assist in constructing 200 improved wells to be
sited in areas of production development. Construction would be undertaken
on a self-help basis and all excavation would be carried out by the villagers
themselves though the project would assist in pumping out the wells during
construction so that an adequate depth can be reached. The project would
also line and cap the wells and equip each with a hand-operated pump.
Estimated construction costs are given in Table 4.
House Construction
8.        There are sufficient local contractors in the Makeni area who
can adequately build the houses and offices required by the project; thus
apart from supervising contractors the project would not actively construct
buildings.
9.        Project building policy would be to rent where possible and only
build where determined essential. Thus some senior staff houses would be
built in Makeni, with other staff houses being rented. Warehouses and
project market centers would be constructed with project funds, but asso-
ciated staff houses in the villages would be rented.



Volume 2
Annex 3
Table 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Civil Work Program
----Year of Project----
Item           Unit                 1      2       3      4         Total
Roads         Mile                  60     90      70     80         300
Bridges       Number                 4     11       2      3          20
Pipe Culverts Number               180    270    210    240          900
Wells         Number                50     50      50     50         200



Volume 2
Annex 3
Table 2
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVE1LPNENT PROJECT II
NORTHBRN AREA PROJECT
Plant and Vehicle Operating Costs
(Leones per Hour)
Lubrication           Cutting
Item                 Fuel   and Filters   Tyres   Edges       Repairs    Total 1/
Tractor 180 HP
(dozer, ripper)       4.9       0.7         -       0.6        7.1       13.3
Grader 150 HP         4.1        0.5        2.3      1.0        4.3       12.2
Tractor (Agricultural)
65 HP                1.4        0.2        0.5       -         0.4        2.5
Tractor drawn Scraper  -         0.1        0.2      0.2        0.1        o.6
Pickup i ton          0.8        0.2        0.5       -        0.3         1.8
Tractor towed Grader   -         0.1        0.2      0.2        0.1        o.6
Tipper 7 ton 5 yc     1.6        0.3        0.7       -         0.8        3.
Flat 8 ton            1.6        0.3        0.6       -         0.8        3.3
Concrete Mixer        0.24       0.1         --                0.1 06
Pump 1 l<,,           0.5       0.1          _        -        0.1         0.7
Caravan                -          -         0.1       -        0.1         0.2
Water Trailer          -          -         0.1       -        0.1         0.2
Fuel Trailer            -         -         0.1       -         0.1        0.2
Service Truck         1.6        0.3        0.7       -        0.8         3.4
Roller                 -          -          -        -          -         1.0
1 Excluding operator costs.



Volume 2
Annex 3
Table 3
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Unit Costs - Bridges and Culverts
Item                                                  Cost (Leones)
Bridges
Sand, stone, cement                                        3,300
BRC No. 9 (2 rolls)                                          350
½" steel rods                                                500
Timber and nails                                             500
Site clearing and backfilling                              1,000
Labor, tools, equipment                                    1,000
Stream diversion                                             350
Total                                           7,000
Culverts
30" culvert pipes (8 per crossing)                            4 0O
Labor                                                         30
Headwalling                                                   30
Total                                             100
/ Average material cost for 24', 30" and 48" pipes.



Volume 2
Annex 3
Table 4
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Unit Cost Standad Well
Foreign     Local
Item                                       Currency    Currency    Mandays
1. Excavate (+25% for failures) @ Le 50                   75
2. Blockwork 82.5 sq ft at Le 0.31           20.00         5.67        6
3. Mortar and plastering                      8.00         2.00        2
h. Slab and manhole formwork                              4.oo         2
5. Concrete                                   4.50        50           3
6  Reinforcing mesh (15 sq ft Le 0.10)        1.30
7. Install slabs                                                       8
8. Pump and user pipe                        76.0
9. Install pump                                                        4
109.80      136.67       25



SI W' LEONE
INTBSRATE) AGRICULTURAL DRVEwpxNr pROJECT II
NORTNFRN AREA PIRCJECT
Co-s of Civil Works  .    -nsr,nio   Jr>, 
Le  0100
Ue it       No. of        Year       Year       Year        Year                  Foreign~ Exchang       Local
,CAPITAL                                   GUn          os           Uit,                      2          3        ___          o  l                     os      Cs
Fleet end Eqoi eet
Tracto/Sore/Tipper 18i hp ...             No.       70.0            1             -      70.f                                70.0    92             63.0       7.0
Motor Grader  (105 hp).......             No.       12.0            1             -        2.0                               4  2.0    90           37.8       4.2
Tractor (rant) (65 hsP).......            Nc.        0.0            2         10.2           -          -                    12.2    92g             9.0        1.0
Tractor Drawn Scrpers........             No.        7.0            2             -       l1l.0                              11.2    92             12.6        1.4
pi ck op -' ton...........               No.         4.0            1~        i6.o           -          -           -        I6. o    90            i4.4       i.6
Tractor Towd Graders .......              No.        5.2            2             -      10.4,          -lo1.14    90                                9.4       1.0
Trunks Fists 8 ton.........        o.N.              9.5            2          9.5         9.5                               19.0    90             17.1       1.9
Trucks Tipper 5YC.........                No.        8.o            1             -        8.o 0                              8.o    90              7.2       o.8
Co..crete Mixer...........                No.        0.9                       o.8         1.S 6                              2.4    90              2.2       0.2
Fa_pe 12.                        ...     No.         0.4            4          0.8        0.8                                 1  .6    90            1.4       0.2
Caravan.                          ...     No.        1.0 1D                       -        1.0          -                      .0    90              0.9       0.1
Water Trailer 500 gal .......             No.        1.0           1I                      1.2 0                              1.0    90              0.9       0.1
Poel Trailer 1000 gel .......             No.        1.5            1             -        1.5          -           -         1.5    90              1.3       0.2
Servce Trork...........                   No.       10.0            1             -      10.0           -           -        10.0    90              9.0       1.0
Roller...............No.                             7.0C           1             -        7.0          -           -         7.0    90              6.3       0.7
Office & Survey Eqoip.ent .....           Set        1.0            1          4.o           -                                4  .o    90            3.6       CA4
Small Tools.............                  Set        2.0            2          2.0         1.0        1.1                     4 .o    90             3.6       0.4
Sobtota1                                                                    43.1      177.9         1.0          -       221.9    90            199.7       22.2
Civil Works
Bridges ..............                    No.        7.5           20    (4) 30.0 (10.) 82.5  (2) 15.0  (3) 22.5            150.0    So             90.0      6o.o
Colve-t..............                     No.        0.1          900  (190) 1l&0(270) 27.0(210) 21.0(240) 24-o              90.0    6o             s4.o      a6.0
Well Materials...........                 No.        0.1          20i   (5o)  5.s (so)  s.s (5o)  s.s (so)  s.5              22.0    So             13.2       8.8
Senior Staff Noose.Es........              o        22.0            1    (i) 22.0            -          -           -        22.0    So             13.2       8.8
Temporry Camps.....                                                             3.0          -          -           -         3.0    So              1.8       1.2
OfCice, Store & Yard           .          No.       1S.0            1          8.o         8.o 0                             i6.o    6o              9.6       6.4
OESoibtotal                                                                    86.5      123.0       41.5        52.0       303.0    So            181.8    121.2
OPRATING11 COSTS
Salaries and Wares
Const-.tios Engineers.......Man Sear   36.0                         3         36.0        36.0       35.0           -       io8.0   100            1o8.o          -
Forema  Wells .......           .0..                  .5            4          3.5         3.5        3.5         3.5        14.0                             1  4.o
Forma  Roads ....... ....3.5                                        4          3.5         3.5        3.5         3.5        14.0      -                       4.0
Sopernisor Noosing ........5.0                                      4          5.0         5.0        5.0         5.0        20.0      -                       0.0
opr-es    ... or   ..... .....1.0                                  36             -       12.0       12.0_      12.0         s6.0                             36.0
Forma  Mechanic      ........      .-3-. 9                          3             -    ---3.5   -- t             3.5         10.5      --                     10.9
Mechanics......... .....0.5                                        10           0.5        5.5        1.5         1.5         5'. 0     --                      5.0
Masons      .............        .                    0.3          24           3.0        3.0        3.0         3.0        12.0       --                     12.0
Labor.......... ......1.3                                         120          9.0         9.0        9.0         9.0        36.0o                            36.0
Clerks......... ......0.5                                           8          1.0         1.0        1.0        1.0          4.0                              4  .o
Sobtotal                                                                    61.5       78.0       78.0        42.0       259.5    42            108.0    151.5
Finnt sod Eoipent Operation
Eqoipect Mire..........                   ....Contract sire ....              50.1           -          -           -        50.0    6o             30.0      20.0
Tractor iso hp .Noons.......              H      I, 13.3         3,600            -       16.0       16.0       i6.o         48.o    So             28.9      19.2
Grader.......... ......                         le 12.2         4,200             -       17.1       17.1       17.1         51.3    So             30.1      21.2
Fsa, Tractor So hp ..........c  2.5                             12,8020        7.3         7.5        7.5        7.5         3,.9.    60            18.0      12.0
Trator Scraper.........           .Ic~ C.S                       3,600            -        0.7        0.7        0.7          2.1    So              i.3       0.8
Pick op Snooks...... .....                      Le  i.9         16,000         7.2         7.2        7.2         7.2        28.8    So             17.3      11.5
Tractor Grader..........          .ino  o.6                      3,6oo                     0.7        0.7         0.7         2.1    So              1.3       o.8
Se-rik Tippor...........          .ie~ s.4                      4,5200            -        3          5.1         5.1        15.3    So              9.2       6.1
Troth Pla............            .               La  3.3        iS,50S         5.0         9.9        9.9         9.9        34.7    So             20.8      13.9
Co-onete Mixers ...... ...oL  o.6                                5,222         0.3         0.9        7'.9       0.3          3. 0    S~o            1.8       1.2
Pno_p 40 .........  .         .The  1.7                          72800         0.1         1.7        0.7        1.7          5t,    Si              3.3       2.2
Carava  & Trailers..........                    L   2.0          2,3020                    i,4        1.4        1.8          4.6    So              2.8       1.8
GSrice Trock ............                         n  34         4,5200-                    5.1        5.1         5.1        15.3    So              9.2       6.i
So1l..............The,  0.0                                      1,200            -        0.1        0.4        0).4         1.2    S0              0.7       0.0
Sub-totl                                                                    70.4       7~'7        7t.7       71.1       lOt.       So          174.6      117.9
qre-ol Service Ch-rgco
Coc ttnio Oof' Hcoo                                                     9.          .           .                      2.0      --                     32.0-a 
H--s  & OilGingMa-tner-                                                                               15                      1.0       --                      1.                                c
8.o  S.C  v   7~~~~~~~0   3ot       -    ~      ~     ~     300 






Volume 2
Annex 4
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
A.   Marketing                                             1
B.   Commercial Services                                   2
Input Supplies                                   2
Sales Policy                                     3
Credit                                           3
Debt Recovery                                    4
Field Staffing                                   5
C.   Seed Multiplication                                   6
D.   Spraying Service                                      7
E.   Revolving Credit Fund
Table 1   Basic Cost Assumptions for Farm Inputs
Table 2   Seasonal Seed Requirements
Table 3   Seasonal Fertilizer Requirements
Table 4   Swamp Development Costs
Table 5   Development of Input Services
Table 6   Seed Multiplication Program
Table 7   Seed Multiplication Unit - Capital and Operating Costs
and Revenue
Table 8   Swamp Rice Spraying Costs
Table 9   NAP Revolving Credit Fund






Volume 2
Annex 4
Page 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Marketing and Farm Inputs
A. Marketing
1.        NAP is a deficiency area for rice:  estimates of present production
result in an average per capita availability of about 125 lb milled rice per
year, or about half of the national average. No detailed household survey:s
have been carried out on dietary makeup, and thus extent of the actual short-
fall in rice is unknown; however, there is an important flow of surpluses
from the Bolilands, through Makeni, where milling facilities and merchants
are concentrated. Milling efficiency is generally low, and capacity exces-
sive; however, most mills depend on electricity and the intermittent nature
of power supplies at least counterbalances the effects of this over-capacity,
to the possible detriment of consumers and the industry as a whole.
2.        Available information indicates that increased rice production
would be consumed within the project area rather than being moved out of it.
The greater part of presently marketed production is sold in February, shortly
after harvest (with repurchases probably starting around June), and this
pattern is unlikely to change significantly except that the amount of sales
made for credit repayment purposes may be reduced as a result of the less
onerous terms of project credit. The main effect of incremental production
on the market would probably be a volumetric change in present grain flows
due to the greater degree of self sufficiency attained by project farmers.
Kono seems to be the main outlet for the surpluses from the Bolilands which
are moved through Makeni, as well as for groundnuts from the project area,
and this market is likely to become increasingly important to farmers in
Makeni and Tonkolili Districts as a whole.
3.        There is very little factual information available concerning
consumer habits and preferences, such knowledge is basic to full understanding
of markets and marketing requirements and steps would be taken under the
projects to overcome this deficiency (Volume 1, Annex 3).
4.        There are few formalized aids to marketing in the project area.
The Rice Corporation maintains a depot at Makeni from which a mobile buying
team has recently started to operate, while SLPMB is represented only by
LBA. Some retail marketing facilities are provided by municipal authorities
and these are active centers of this level of trade.



Volume 2
Annex 4
Page 2
5.        To assist development of market infrastructure the project area
would be divided into five Market Areas administered from a Market Center;
development within these areas would be from a total of twenty Development
.enters.  (For details see Volume 1, Annex 2, Table 10).
6.        Covered storage would be erected at each Market Center and necessary
facilities provided for a statutory buying team handling all crops to which
guaranteed prices apply. A mobile buying team would operate throughout
the Market Area should quantities offered warrant it, or unsatisfactory
performance by LBA require intensification of official competition.
7.        Details of the function of the Market Centers and the relationship
of the project to national marketing policies may be found in Volume 1,
Annex 2(E).
B. Commercial Services
8.        Input Supplies.  The Commercial Services Section (CSS) would be
responsible for the distribution, storage and sale of recommended farm
inputs within the project area. The whole emphasis of CSS would be on
market penetration and thus input utilization. Ancillary to supply of
physical inputs would be that of credit; although initially both functions
would be combined within the one department, the aim would be to develop
each into commercially viable entities as quickly as possible, able to
operate alone or in association with similar organizations elsewhere in
the country. For this reason, overall supply and distribution of inputs
as well as determination of operational procedures would be the responsibility
of the Commercial Services Officer in PESU working through, and in conjunc-
tion with PMU.
9.        Diseconomies resulting from an initially low intensity of demand
would necessitate the cost of CSS being subsidized by government during the
development period. Nevertheless the whole approach would embody a strong
training element to allow eventual reduction of CSS staffing to a small
core of specialists.
10.       The greatest proportion of on cost in the farmgate price of an
input is a combination of product transportation and sales time per unit
sold. The operational and pricing policy would therefore be designed to
build up on the group approach of the Extension and Training Services Section,
with traditional structures and disciplines complementing, and in some cases
supplementing, activities of CSS staff.
11.       Sales Services would be provided in each market area through an
Area Salesman, operating from the Market Center, where office and storage
space would be provided. He would be assisted by a clerk/storekeeper. Area



Volume 2
Annex 4
Page 3
salesmen would be salaried staff but a performance stimulus would be applied
through a system of bonuses related to achieve sales.
12.       Sales Policy.  There is an average of about 140 swamps per Market
Area ranging from 70 in Kaimpo to 208 in Magburaka, while total annual
fertilizer requirement is expected to reach 1,500 tons in year 4. These
figures reinforce the need for group formation and the achievement of simi-
larly based sales. In this context the word "group" does not only mean
associations or numbers of farmers but also any individual demand that could
be large enough to improve the ratio of sales volume to number of transactions.
Encouragement would therefore be given to farmers to adopt the most economic
means for getting inputs onto their farms; these will differ with circumstances,
but the project would use a pricing policy designed to demonstrate benefits
of group buying as well as the effects of small units of sale on cost of
sales.
13.       An annual base price would be calculated for fertilizer (and other
necessary inputs--see Table 1). For fertilizer this price would be the basic
cash price for quantities of 1 ton and upwards, and would be common to all
Development Centers. It would be achieved through applying transport costs,
weighted to represent anticipated sales in each market area, to the gross
price (i.e., all overheads included) ex-Freetown.
14.       Discounts would be granted on fertilizer sold in not less than
lorry load lots (5 tons), ex Market Center. These would equal the calculated
cost to the project of delivering sucih fertilizer to DC at which the buyer is
registered. For those buyers wishing to take exact lorry load quantities
the CSS would agree to deliver fertilizer, at base price, to nearest point
of suitable access to buyers farm or swamp, any additional transport costs
incurred by the project over base costs being payable in cash. In both cases
an allowance would also be made for bookkeeping savings resulting from the
larger unit of sale.
15.       For quantities smaller than one ton (twenty bags) the price would
be basic plus ten percent. Seed would be sold at a standard price which
would include production costs and selling overheads, quantity discounts
would be available as for fertilizer, and a ten percent premium would be
payable on lots of 10 bags or less. Total annual sales of seed and fertilizer
are given in Tables 2 and 3.
16.       Credit.  Credit facilities would be available with terms depending
on the purpose of the required loan (i.e., seasonal or development). The
credit system would depend heavily on, and be linked with, the disciplines
of the Chiefdom Authorities, benefits and strengths of which have been
clearly demonstrated in the ongoing EAP. Such an approach would also mean
imposing new functions on a traditional structure and project staff would
provide necessary assistance and advice at chiefdom level.



Volume 2
Annex 4
Page 4
17.       After due consultation with the Chiefdom Authorities and farmers,
a Cred-t Advisory Committee (CAC) would be formed in each Development Area
to appraise the status and creditworthiness of applicants. The principle
of collective responsibility would obtain, and loans could only be made after
approval by the CAC. Although the Commercial Officer would be the final arbiter
concerning creditworthiness it is extremely unlikely that he would be able to
obtain better information than that available to the CAC with whose chairmen
he would in any case maintain a close liaison.
18.       Development credit would be available only to farmers opening up
or rehabilitating approved swamps. Payment would be retrospective and in
two installments. Repayment would be in equal amounts over five years, with
interest at 8% calculated on a declining balance basis, and averaged over
the period of the loan. Details of the content of the swamp development loan
are given in Annex 2, Table 1. Total development loan outlays are given in
Table 4 of this Annex.
19.       Seasonal credit would be in kind, and bear a flat rate of
ten percent. Repayment would be in cash within a period determined by the
nature of the crop for which credit was granted. For example, upland and
main crop swamp rice credit would be repayable by March 31 (harvest period
November-January). Estimated values of cash and credit sales for seeds and
fertilizer are given in Tables 2 and 3.
20.       Ready access to a realistic floor price for statutory crops should
minimize the need for additional short-term credit by those growers engaged
in recommended double cropping. However, cultivation demands of the second
crop could well delay threshing and marketing of the main harvest and thus
create a need for such credit. Each case would have to be considered indi-
vldually, and in view of the increased risks, PMU and CAC would need to
consider the desirability of obtaining physical security through, for example,
a pledge of already harvested crops.
21.       The apparently rather fragmented nature of production within market
areas dLnderlines the importance not only of group approach but also of full
cooperation among project staff if potential value of physical inputs is to
be realized and the commercial feasibility of CSS operations properly eval-
uated. Actions and responsibilities in the development of input service
operations are shown in Table 5.
22.       Debt Recovery. Repayment would be made by individuals or by the
group leader. While the group system reduces the amount of physical account-
ing as well as the number of loans to be recovered at project level, it



Volume 2
Annex 4
Page 5
does not decrease the number of ultimate borrowers; it shifts, rather
than removes, responsiblity for primary collection. This change of emphasis
is important not only for the savings that will be ultimately realized,
but also because of the opportunity provided to start off with a near mirror
image of conditions and requirements in a commercial finance company.
23.       Instruction and help in applying adequate recording practices will
lhave to be given to group leaders and GAC; such work would complement that
being carried out by extension staff and would be an integral part of the
group development process. Accounting Assistants would be responsible
for this function as well as being the persons to whom actual repayments
would be made. By the end of the development phase the Accounting Assistants
should have established satisfactory recording systems in groups and by
chiefdom, thus providing the sound foundation necessary for a farmers' finance
company (see Volume 3, Annex 4).
24.       Although statutory marketing facilities would exist at Market
Centers and funds for debt repayment generated at these points, it would be
impractical to attempt to utilize the organization as a vehicle for debt
collection. Introduction of such a system would tend to undermine and prob-
ably destroy the group concept as well as necessitate the employment of
additional accounting staff and create an undesirable diversification away
from the prime purpose of efficient low cost primary marketing.
25.       Field Staffing.  The variation in extent and, to a lesser degree,
density of Market Areas together with uncertainty regarding ease of access
makes it necessary to make provision for six Area Salesmen to ensure proper
coverage of the project area. In a large area like Gbendembu two salesmen
would be able to operate from one Market Center, and only five storekeeper/
clerks would be required in total. Salesmen would have a 175 cc motorcycle
on which to cover their area, while actual movement of inputs would be coor-
dinated by the Commercial Services Officer, to ensure best use of available
transport. A simple cost recording and analysis system would be instituted from
the start of each salesman's operations to provide indicators as to probable
cheapest effective means of operating the Unit, and procedure would be kept under
careful review. Provision would be made for one Accounting Assistant to each
Market Area with a further two for back up in the larger areas; each would be
provided with a small motorcycle. This relatively high density would be required
to ensure that group approach and recording practices were satisfactory from the
outset, and some reduction in AA to new group ratio would be aimed at over the
life of the project.
26.       The principal duties of the Commercial Services Officer (CSO)
would initially be in the establishment of efficient input supply and credit
organizations. During the project period he would also identify other specific



Volume 2
Annex 4
Page 6
areas where assistance is required, or would benefit project farmers. Such
work would be carried out within guidelines agreed between the commercial
services officer of PESU and PMU and would include detailed appraisal of rice
milling requirements within the project boundaries and areas tributary thereto.
C. Seed Multiplication
27.       The project depends in large measure on the provision of improved
seeds to farmers and, since the quantities are not otherwise available, a
seed multiplication unit would be established on the river terrace soils
of the project area. The unit would comprise some 100 acres, fully irri-
gated with around 60% of the area double cropped, and, on the basis of
seed replacement every fourth year, would provide the entire project rice
seed requirement. For groundnuts, quality seed would be issued to approved
and supervised outgrowers for bulking. Prices paid to outgrowers would be
around 1.5i per lb above current market price to provide the necessary
incentive for improved husbandry practice.
28.       A pricing structure for seeds is proposed that would enable the
seed multiplication unit to operate at a profit sufficient to cover invest-
ment and operating costs, including supervision and seed inspection. Seed
would be purchased from the farm by the commercial services unit and a
mark-up added to cover distribution costs to farming groups. The following
price structure is recommended:
Ex Seed Farm       Base Price
Price          to Farmers
-----     Leones------------
Rice           bu                 7.50             8.00
Groundnuts      lb /1              .11               .12
/1   Shelled seed.
Seed would be dressed and packed in one acre packages (1 bushel rice and
60 lb groundnuts) and clearly marked to warn off the dangers of eating
treated seed.
29.       Details of the seed multiplication program for rice and groundnuts
are given in Table 6 and the estimated capital and operating costs of the
multiplication unit are given in Table 7.



Volume 2
Annex 4
Page 7
D. Spraying Service
30.       Insect damage to rice has not assumed economic importance in
Sierra Leone, but is expected to increase following general intensification
of rice production. Until the benefits of crop spraying are properly eval-
uated, however, and farmers suitably trained in insect damage identifica-
tion, a "fire brigade" spraying service would be operated by the project
for which a flat cash charge would be made.
31.       Recommended spraying charges, and estimates of sprayers and
spray requirements are given in Table 8.



Volume 2
Annex 1W
Table 2
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Basic Cost Assumptions for Farm Inputs
(Leones)
Calcium                      Single             Ground-
Ammonium   Ammonium          Super-      Seed  nut
Nitrate    Sulphate   Urea   Phosphate   Rice   Seed  /
cif Freetown US$              218.00    177.00   348.00   200.00
cif Freetown Le               185.00     150.00   295.0o   170.00
Port Handling Charge            5.00       5.00    5.00      5.00
Freetown - Makeni Area          9.60       9.60     9.60     9.60
Finance and Handling
(10% cif)                    18.50      15.00    29.50    17.00
Ex-Store Price - per ton      218.10     179.60   339.10  201.60
- rounded      220.00     180.00   340.00  200.00
Ex-Store Price                bag I      bag /    bag!/   bag!/       bushel    lb2
- unsubsidized  11.00       9.00    17.00   10.00         8.00   0.12
0/ 50 kilos.
2/ She:Lled.
August 5, 1974



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHFRN AREA PROJECT
Seasonal Seed Reauirement
Total    Foreign Exchange    Local
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Cost       %                    Cost
Rice Seed V
Swampland             bu                 500     1,500     2,000     2,500
Upland-Permanent      bu                 -         250       500       500
Upland-Shifting       bu                 125     4,000     4,000     4,000
Total         bu                625      5,750     6,500     7,000
Value         '000 La             5.0       46.0      52.0      56.0   159.0    -              -       159.0
Groundnut Seed                                        3
Upland-Permanent      '000 lbs  /        -          35.0      70.0       70.0
Upland-Shifting       '000 lbs           -          70.0     140.0     350.0
Total         '000 lbs          -          105.0     210.0     420.0
Value         '000 LA            -          12.6      25.2      50.4    88.2    -              -        88.2
Total Value   '000 Le             5.0       58.6      77.2     106.4   247.2    -              -       247.2
Cash Sales 2                                  .4       3.5       5.3       8.2    17.4    -               -       17.4
Credit Sales                                 3.8      31.1      47.9      74.2   157.0    -               -      157.0
Exchange V                                    .8      24.0      24.0      24.0    72.8    -               -       72.8
-V  For physical seed requirement details see Annex 2, Tables 2-8 and Annex 4, table 6
Shelled groundnuts.
10% of combined cash and credit sales.
75% of upland (shifting) rice distributed on an exchange basis.
August 5, 1974



SIERRA LBONE
INTGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Seasonal Fertilizer Requirements
Total    Foreign Exchange    Local
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3    Year      Cost    %_ Costt    Cost
Nitrogenous Fertilizer
Swampland Rice            tons          37*5      150.0     300.0     450.0
Upland Rice               tons          -          12.5      37.5       62.5
Total            tons           37.5     162.5      337.5     512.5
Value             '000 Le __    6.8       29.3       60.8      92.3    189.2    83          157.0      32.2
Phosphatic Fertilizer
Swampland Rice            tons          37.5      150.0     300.0     45o.o
Upland Rice               tons           -         12.5      37.5      62.5
Upland Groundnuts         tons           -         50.0     150.0     325.0
Total            tons           37.5     212.5      487.5     837.5
Value 1/          I000 Le        7.5      42.5       97.5     167.5    315.0    85          267.8      47.2
Total Value 1/   '000 Le        14.3      71.8      158.3     259.8    504.2    84          424.8      79.4
Cash Sales (10%)            '000 Le        1.4        7.2      15.8      26.0      50.4    84           42.3      8.1
Credit Sales (90%) 2/       '000 Le       12.9       64.6     142.5     233.8    453.8    84           381.2     72.6
1/ Price assumptions (see Table 1) based on sulphate of ammonia and single superphosphate delivered to project            |
stores.
2/ Lent to farmers at flat rate of 10%.
August 6, 1974



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Swamp Development Cost
Total    Foreign Exchange    Local
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3    Year a   Cost       %            Cost    Cost
Area Developed             acres         500       1,500     2,000      2,000
Development Costs lJ       '000 Le        25.0        750o    100.0       100.0  300.0    -             _      300.0
Debt Service ?I             '000 Le        -           6.3      25.0       50.0   81.3    -             _       81.3
Balance          '000 Le       25.0         68.7      75.0      50.0  218.7    -                     9 218.7
1f See Annex 2, Table 1.
/ Each development loan of Le 50.00 is repaid over 5 years at 8% in equal annual installments of Le 50.00.
August 6, 1974



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEI0PMENT PROJECT II
Comiercial Services
Development of Input Services
DIRECT INVOLVEIMENT
Farmers'                                        ---- CSS---
Event                                                                'Group'    Chief(s).   CAC    LPD    CONEX   CS         AA
* 1. Identification, land planning, group formation (dev.
credit application).                                                 X           X         X       X                       X
2. Instruction in recordkeeping.                                        x                                                     X
* 3. (Development credit approved/rejected).                                                     X       X                       X
4.  CSS advised.                                                                                              X        X      X
* 5. (First stage development credit paid).                               X                                      X              X
Input requirements discussed and certified.
6. Supplies earmarked, seasonal credit initiated, if required.          X                                     X        X
* 7e (Second stage development credit paid)                               X                      X               X              X
8. Seasonal credit application endorsed.                                            X         X               X        X
9. Credit application accepted.                                                                                               X
10. Fertilizer release approved.                                                                                       X       X
11. Fertilizer collected/delivered.                                      X                                     X        X
12. Crop inspection.                                                     X                     X       X       I        X
13. karket advice.                                                       X                                              X
14. Crop sale and repay credit.                                          XX
15. Late or problem payment.                                             X           X          X              X       X       X
*  apply only to swamp development                                                                                            - S 
CSS = Commercial Services Section.                             



Volume 2
Annex 4
Table 6
SIERRA LEONE
INTB3RATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NRTHERN AREA PROJECT
Seed Multiplication Program
Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Year 4   Year 5 onwards
Seed Requirements
1. Cumulative Developed
Area 1J
Swamp Rice                 ac            500    2,000    4,000    6,000        6,000
Upland Rice-Permanent      ac            -        350       750    1,250       1,250
Upland Rice-Shifting       ac            250    8,000   16,000   24,000        24,000
Upland Groundnuts          ac                   1,500    4,500   10,500       10,500
2. Seed Requirements 2
Swamp Rice                 bu            500    1,500    2,000    2,500         2,000
Upland Rice                bu           125    4,250    4,500    4,500         4,000
Groundnuts                 '000 lbs      -        105       210      420          245
Rice Seed Production
1. Foundation Seed
For Seed Farm              bu            -        125       125      125          125
For Project Farmers I/    bu,            625    5,750       -        -
2. Project Seed Farm
Gross Production           bu            -      7,500    7,500    7,500         7,500
Net Production             bu            -      6,ooo    6,ooo    6,ooo         6,ooo
To Project Farmers         bu            -      6,ooo    6,ooo    6,000         6,ooo
Surplus (deficit)          bu            -     (5,750)    (500)  (1,000)
Groundnut Seed Production
1. Foundation Seed
For Seed Farm                              2        3         3   /   3             3
For Project Farmers 1                    -         84       _ 
2. Project Seed Farm
Gross Production                          53       80        80       80           30
Net Production                            40       60        60       60           60
Reserve Stock                             15        8        30       30           30
To Outgrowers                             21       52        30       30           30
Balance of Seed Requirement                   -          8       158      390          215
3. Registered Outgrowers
Gross Production                                  210       520      300          300
Net Production                           -        158       390      225          225
To Project Farmers                       -        158       390      215          215
Surplus                                  -        -         -         10           10
lJ See Annex 2, Table 10*
_/ Swamp rice 60 lbs (1 bushel) per acre.
Upland rice-permanent 60 lbs (1 bushel) per acre.
Upland rice-shifting 30 lbs (.5 bushel) per acre.
Groundnuts 60 lbs shelled nuts per acre.
All seed to be replaced after 3 years (33% of crop per annum),
/ All seed produced on seed fanm.
August 6, 197h



SIERRA LEONE
INTERATSD AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFiENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Seed Multiplication Unit
Capital Costs
Leones
Cost/Acre
Cost/Unit
Leones            No.               Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 4          Total
Capital Costs
Land Preparation
1.  Bush clearing                                  44            100 acres          4,400          ----            ----            ----            4,400
2.  Levelling                                      13            100 acres          1,300          ----            ----            ----            1,300
3.  Rome plough                                    15            100 acres          1,500           ----           ----            ----            1,500
4.  Canals
5.  Roads      )                                  150            100 acres         15,000           ----           ----            ----           15,000
6.  Drains
SUB- TOTAL                                                          22,200           ----           ----                           22,200
Vehicles
7.  Pick-up truck                               3,900               4           2/  7,800           ----                       2/ 7,800           15,600
8.  Tractor (65 h.p.)                           5,000               1               5,000           ----           ----            ----            5,000
9.  Trailer (7 ton)                             1,800               1           1/  1,800           ----           ----            ----            1,800
10.  Motor cycle                                   400               2                 400           --            1/400            ----               800
SUB- TOTAL                                                          15,000           ----             400           7,800          23,200
Machinery and Equipment
11.  Pumps (3 cu. secs.)                         2,000               2               4,000           ----           ----            ----             4,000
12.  Scales and bagging equipment                2,000                               2,000           ----           ----            ----             2,000
13.  Office equipment                        include furnishing                       1,000          ----           ----            ----             1,000
14.  Plough                                        300               1                  300          ----           ----            ----               300
15.  Harrow (disc)                                 400               1                 400           ----           ----            ----               400
16.  Rotavator                                     700               1                  700          ---- ----                      ----               700
17.  Slasher                                       500               1                  500          ----           ----            ----               500
18.  Thresher                                    1,000               1                1,000          ____ ----                      ----             1,000
19.  Precleaner                                    800               1                  800          ----           -_              ----               800
20.  Decorticator                                6,000               1                               6,000          ----            ----             6,000
21.  Sprayers                                       100              4                  400          ----           ----            ----               400
22.  Power tiller                                1,8001/             1                1.800          ----           ----            ----             1,800
SUB- TOTAL                                                           12,900          6,000           ----           ----            18,900
Buildings
23.  Pumphouse                                   2,700               1                2,700          ----            ____           ----             2,700
24.  Office                                      8,000               1                8,000          ----            ----            ----            8,000
25.  Store                                       8,000               1                8,000          ----            ----           ----             8,000
26.  Drying floor 2/                               700               1                  700          ----            ----           ----               700
27.  Covered area3/                              2,000               1                2.000          ----           ----            ----             2.000
SUB- TOTAL                                                           21,400          ----            ----           ----            21,400
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                             71.500          6,000             400          7.800           85,700
' Ir 1ese  im:,I*lent
or;   '4 o x 6"   I    '.50/cu.yd.
-     Le l1,)    -      g-Le 1,000



RA LEONE
INTEGRATEO AGRICULTUHAL DEVELOP~HEN PROJIECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Seed Multivlication Uoit
operating Costs
Leones
Rate                    No.               Hours       Anvunt           Year 1       Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Total
Operating Costs
(a) Staff
Manager                               6,000                     1                                             6,000        6,000        6,000       6,000      24,000
Field Assistant (outgrowers)          1,200                     1                                                -         1,200        1,200        1,200      3,600
Artisan                                 400                     2                                               600          800          800         800       3,000
Skilled labor                           300                     3                                               450          900          900         900       3,150
Drivers                                 600                     t                                               300          600          600         600       2,100
Operators                               600                     3                                                900       1,800        1,800       1,800       6 300
Permanent labor                         255                    10                                              1,300       2,550        2,550       2,550       8,950
9,550       13,850      13,850       13,850     51,100
(b) Plant and Vehicles
Pumps                            Le   1.5/hr                                    1,000                           750        1,500        1,500       1,500       5,250
Tractor                          Le  2.3/hr                                      1,000                         1,150       2,300        2,300       2,300       8,050
Implements                       Le  0.8/hr                                     1,WO                            400          800          8oo         800       2,800
Thresher                         Le  0.9/hr                                        400                           -           180          360          360        900
De.ortieator                     Le  0.9/hr                                       500                            250         450          450         450       1,600
Van                              Le   1.8/hr                                     1,000                           900       1,800        1,800       1,800       6,300
Lorry (outgrowers)               Le   2.0/hr                                       500                           -         1.000        l,WOo        1,000      3,000
Tiller                           Le   1.25/hr                                      400                           200         500          500          500      1,700
Others                                                                                                            50         100          100          100        350
3,700       8,630        8,810       8,810      20,950
(c) ParF Inputs 1/
Foundation seed
Rice                                300/ton                  125 ac/yr                     60 lb/ar            -         1,000        1,000       1,000       3,000
Groundnuts                          12 C/lb shelled           50 ac/yr                     60 lbs/ar           230         360          360         360       1,310
Fertilizer
Rice (N)                            9.0tbag                  125 ac/yr                     2 bags             -          2,250        2,250       2,250       6,750
P205                          10.0/bag                 125 ar/yr                  -  I bag              -          1,250       1,250        1,250      3,750
Groundnuts P205                     10.0/bag                  50 ar/yr                     2 bag.              660       1,000        I,00o       1,000       3,660
Herbicide                             14-0/gal                 125 ac/yr                     I g/ac              -         1,750        1,750        1,750      5,250
Insecticide                            3.0/gal                 125 ac/yr                     I g/rc              -           380          380          380      1,140
Small tools                                                                                                      100         200          200         200         700
Labor (casual)
Rice                                .55/md                   125 or                        5 md/ac.            -           530          530         530       1,590
Groundnuts                          .85/md                    50 or                        3 md/ar             100         130          130         130         490
Handling and bagging                  4.35/t                   190 tons                                          100         530          830          830      2,590
Bags-
Rice                                  .20/hog                 7,500 bags                    50 lb bag                     1,500)       1,500       1,500       4,500
Groundnuts                            .30/bog                 1,305 bags                    10O lb bag          260         390          390         390       1,430
1,450      11,570       11,570      11,570      36,160
(d) Maintenance and Rent
Buildings                             2k%  if Capitol Cost                                                       -           500          500         500       1,500
Irrigation works                      3%  of capital root                                                        _           450          450         450       1,350
Housing rent seniOr staff             750                      1 house                                           -           750          750         750       2,250
junior staff            250                      5 houses                                          -          1,250       1,250        1,250      3,750
-         2,950        2,950       2,95o       8,850
Total Operating Costc                                                                                   14,700      37,000       37,180       37,100   126,060
1,.   .,        oing.                                                                                                                                                     )cO -g



SIERRA LEONE
INTPSRATED AGRICULTURAL DE TWP NT PWJC  II
NORTEERN AREA PROJECT
Seed Multiplication Unit
Revenue
(Leonea)
Unit                Year 1           Year 2          Year 3           Year 4-20
Revenue
Sale of Rice Seconds             Le 2/bu               1,500 bu                             3,000           3,000             3,000
Sale of Rice Seed                Le 7Wo/bu /1          6,000 bu                                            45,000            454,00
Sale of Groundnut Seconds                                                      39             600             600               600
Farm                         3i/lb                                        3905600                       6,00               6000
Outgrowers                   3i/lb                                                      1,560           3,900             3,900
Sale of Groundnut Seed                                                                      6,050           7,480             9,900
OutgiF wers                 11//lb                                                                     17,300            42,900
Less  Purchase of Outgrower Seed   90/lb 2                                                  (18.900)         (L6.800)          (27.000)
Gross Revenue                                                        393          (7,690)         30,480            78,300
L1   Delayed one year.
/2   Purchase 6 months in advance of sale.



SIERRA LEONE
INTBGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHER11 AREA PROJECT
Swamp Rice Spraying Costs
A. Requirerments
Assume: 'L. Peak reqi1rement, deternined by assuming 25% of crop sprayed in a 10 day period.
2. Spr.sy rate 2.5 acres per day.
3. Sprayer costs Le 45.00.
Total    Foreign Exchan,ge    Local
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Yeai 1   Cost                    Cost    Cost
Cunzu1ative Acres       ac           500    2,000    4o,000    6,JO
Sprayed (25%)           ac            125      500    1,000      - 500
Acres/day (.' 10)       ac            12        50      100       ASO
Sprayers  (-. 2.5)      No.             5       20       )40       60
Increment i/            No.             5       15        20       25
Total Sprayer Cost      Leones        225      675       900    1,125    2,925    85           2,485       41h0
Total. Spray Cost  L/ Leones          125      500    1,000    1,500    3,125    35            2,6 5       470
Total Cost         Leones       350    1,175    1,900    2,625    6,050    8'             5,14[0     910
B. Spraying Costs per Acre (25 acres/sprayer, 3 year life)
Per Total          Per Sprayed
acres                acres
Capital                          .15
Repairs (100,:')                  .1-
Insecticides                      .25                 1.00
Sub total                      .55                 1.90
Service Charge                   O0                    .10
0.60                 2.00
repaceatsinyear   .                                                                                                     -  1<
.1 lb gamma BHC per acre @ Le 1.00.                                                                                  W x 
(6
August 6, 197hi



Volume 2
AnIex 4
Table 9
SIERRA LH)NE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEV=MOHfNT PROJECT II
NAP Revolving Credit Fund /5
(Le '000)
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Inflow
Loan from Government /1
Rice                                    L o.6    126.8     172.4      172.4
Groundnuts                               -        12.0       24.o      42.0
Subtotal                            0W      135.8     196.       2114.4
Loan repayment installments
Rice - development                       -         5.0       20.0      40.0
Rice - seasonal                         15.6      67.4     139.8      212.2
Groundnut - seasonal                     -        12.0      36.0       78.0
Interest receivable from loans
Rice                                     1.6       8.2       19.3      31.7
Groundnuts                               -         1.2       3.6        7.8
Subtotal                           17.2     -3-       218.7     369.7
Less:  Bad debts /2                       (1.7)     (9.4)    (21.7)    (36.7)
Subtotal                           1Y575    N8.        9 197.0  333.0
Total Inflow                          61      232.2     393.0        -
Oiutflow
Loans to farmers
Rice - development                      25.0      75.0      100.0     100.0
Rice - seasonal                         15.6      67.4     139.8      212.2
Groundnuts - seasonal                    -        12.0       36.0      78.0
Total Outflow                         0.      T5TT      27908       .2
'Net Inflow for year                      15.5      68.8      117.2     157,2
Cash Balance of fund at year end /3       15.5      84.3     201.5    358.7
Loans to Farmers Outstandingat year end 25.0        95.0      175.0     235.0
SeasonalLoan Requirements  /4                                           290.2
(Rice and Groundnuts)
/1  Loans from Government comprise all development loan expenditure during
project period plus total seasonal loan finance required in year 4 but
provided on an incremental basis.
/2  Bad debts estimated at 10% of loan repaymenP plus interest receivable
for the year. Bad debts roughly equal to full interest receivabLe for
the year.
/3  Value of fund at end year 4 is Le 593,700 comprising
cash Le 358,700, and rice development loan balances outstanding of
Le 235,000.
/4 Based on year 4 seasonal loans, future annual seasonal finance
requirement is Le 290,200.
/5 Assumes no Government subsidies for fertilizers. If subsidies are given
then revolvirg fund will be smaller.



Volume 2
Annex 5
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Project Costs
Table 1   Salaries, Wages, and Emoluments
Table 2   Vehicles, Plant, and Equipment
Table 3   Buildings, Furnishings, and Construction Materials
Table 4   Vehicle and Plant Operating
Table 5   General Services Recurrent
Table 6   Farm Inputs






Volume 2
Annex 5
SIERRA LEONE
INTfSSRATRD AICICLTURAL DEVEWYs4XWD PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Salaries and WaRes
Le '000'
Annual
Unit                                                                                                         Foreign Exchange           Local
Unit             Cost             Year I             year 2            Year 3             Year 4            Total             T             Cast         Casts
1   frojoct AdMiMstratons Services
Project Manager                                            nanyears         40o0/9.0        (1) 40.0          (1) 40.0         (1)   40.0         (1)    9.0             129,0             100           120.0           9.0
Accountant                                                                     8.0          (1)  8.0          (1)  8.0        (1)      8.0        (1)   8.0                32.0                                        32.0
Internal Auditor                                                               5.0          (1)  5.0          (1)  5.0        (1)      5.0        (1)   5.0                20.0                                        20.0
Accounts Clerks                                                                 2.1         (3)  6.3           (3)  6.3       (3)      6.3        (3)   6.3                25.2                                         25.2
Administration Officer                                                         5.0          (1)  5.0           (1)  5.0       (1)      5.0        (1)   5.0                20.0                                         20.0
Chief Clerk                                                                    1.8          (1)   1.8          (1)  1.8       (1)      1.8        (1)    1.8                7.2                                          7.2
Secretaries                                                                    1.9          (5)   9.5         (5)  9.5        (5)      9.5        (5)   9.5                38.0                                        38.0
Clerks/Radio Operators                                                          1.0         (5)  5.0         (10) 10.0       (10)    10.0        (10)  10.0                35.0                                         35.0
Storekeepers                                                                   1.1          (1)   1.1         (1)   1.1       (1)      1.1        (1)   1.1                 4.4                                          4.4
Drivers                                                                        0.6          (5)  3.0           (5)  3.0        (5)     3.0        (5)    3.0               12.0                                         12.0
Watchnsn/Messeoger/Laborer.                                                    0.6         (10)  6.0         (20) 12.0        (20)    12.0       (20)  12.0                42.0                                        42.0
Project Agent - Freetown                                                       5.0          (1)  5.0          (1)  5.0        (1)      5.0        (1    5.0                20.0            _                            20.0
95.7.            106.7             106.7               75.7             .384.o            31             120.0       264.8
2.  Extena.on &, Training Oervices70                                                                                                                                           1.1010070
Rxtension & Training Offic er                                               36.0/7.0        (1) 36.0           (1) 36.0        (1)   36.0          (1)   7.0              115.0            100            108.0          7.0
Senior Extension Officer                                                       6.0          (1)  6.0          (1)  6.0        (1)      6.0        (1)   6.0                24.0                                         24.0
Training officer                                                                6.0         (1)  6.0           (1)  6.0        (1)     6.0         (1)   6.0               24.0                                         24.0
Liwstock Specialist                                                         36.0/7.0        (1) 36.0          (1) 36.0        (1)    36.0         (1)    7.0             115.0            100            108.0           7.0
Research Officer (ROKUPR)/                                                     6.0          (1)  6.0           (1)  6.0        (1)     6.0        (1)   6.0                24.8                                         24.0
Seed Multiplication
Agricultural Officer                                                            6.0         (5) 30.0           (5) 30.0        (5)    30.0         (5)  30.0              120.0                                        120.0
Agricultural Instructors                                                        1.3        (20) 26.0         (30) 39.0       (40)   52.0         (40)  52.0               169.0                                        169.0
Training Instructors                                                            1.3         (4)  5.2           (4)  5.2        (4)     5.2         (4)   5.2               20.8                                         20.8
Research Assistants                                                             1.2         (4)  4.8           (8)  9.6      (10)   12.0         (10)  12.0                38.4                                         38.4
Matron - Training School                                                        1.0         (1)  1.0           (1)  1.0        (1)     1.0         (1)    1.0               4.0                                          4.0
Fatm  Manager - Seed Multiplicotion                                             6.0         (1)  6.0           (1)  6.0        (6)     6.0         (6)   6.0               24.0                                         24.0
Clerka/Radio Operatoro                                                          1.0         (5)  5.0           (5)  5.0        (5)    5.0          (5)   5.0               20.0                                         20.0
Drivers                                                                        0.6          (3)  1.8           (3)  1.8        (3)     1.8        (3)    1.8                7.2                                          7.2
Laborers/Watchmen                                                               0.6        '21) 16.2          (27) 16.2       (27)   16.2        (27)   16.2               64.8                                         64.8
Enumerators                                                                     0.8         (6)  4.8           (8)  9.6        (8)    9.6          (8)   9.6               33.6                                         33.6
Assistant Patio Mansger/Outgrowers                                              1.2                 -          (1)  1.2        (1)     1.2         (1)    1,2               3.6                                          3.6
Livestock Assistants                                                            2.6         (2)  5.2           (2)  5.2        (2)     5.2         (2)   5.2               20.8                                         20.8
Forestry Research"X                                                                             106°.0             10.09o@8o         10.0o620            10.0              40.0                                         4     2
Forestry  Researchl/                                                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~206.0    229.8             245.2              187.2             8§68.2
3.  Conservation & Lasd Developmont Swrvices
Consorvation & Land Development  Officer                                    36.0/7.0        (1) 36.0           (1) 36.0        (1)   36.0          (1)   7.0               115.0           100            108.0          7.0
Senior Land Planner (A.O. status)                                              6.0          (1)  6.0           (1)  6.0        (1)     6.0         (1)   6.0                24.0                                        24.0
Statistician                                                                    6.0         (1)  6.0           (1)  6.0        (1)     6.0         (1)   6.0                24.0                                        24.0
Surveyors                                                                       1.6         (6)  9.6           (8) 12.8       (10)    16.0        (10)  16.0                54.4                                        54.4
Orivers                                                                         0.6         (2)  1.2           (2)  1.2        (2)     1.2         (2)    1.2                4.8                                         4.8
Watchmen/Laborers                                                               0.6        (12)  7.2          (16)  9.6       (20)    12.0        (20)  12.0                40.8                                        40.8
Civil Works Construction Unit                                                                    61.5              78.0               78.0              42.0               259 5           42             108 0        151.5
127.5             149.6              155.2              90.2               522.5            41            216.0        306.5
4.  Comsnrcial Service3
Commercial Officer                                                              8.0         (5)  8.0           (1)  8.0        (1)     8.0         (1)    8.0               32.0                                        32.0
Accountant                                                                      5.0         (1)  5.0           (1)  5,0        (1)     5.0         (1)   5.0                20.0
Stores Controller                                                              5.0          (1)  5.0           (1)  5.0        (1)     5.0         (1)   5.0                20.0                                        20.0
Area Salesann                                                                   3.0         (5) 15.0           (6) 18.0        (6)   18.0          (6)  18.0                69.0                                        68.0
Storemen/Clerks                                                                 0.9         (5)  4.5           (5)  4.5        (5)    4.5          (5)   4.5                18.0                                        18.0
Accounts Assistants                                                             1.0         (5)  5.0           (5)  5.0        (5)    5.0          (5)   5.0                20.0                                        20.0
Driver                                                                         0.6          (1)  0.6           (1)  0.6        (5)     0.6         (5)    0.6                2.4                                         2.4
Laborers                                                                       0.6          (6)    6           (8)  4.8       (10)    6.0        (10)                       20.4                                        20.4
4675095.                                                521:              201.8            -201.8
T  O  T  A  L                                       475.9             537.0              559.2             405.2             1,977.3            28            552.0      1,425.3
Local Staff                                                                                    291.9             353.0              375.2              405.2            1,425.3             -                       1,425.3
Internationally Recruited Staff                                                                184.0             184.0              184.0               -                 552.0           100            552.0
1/ see Volume 2, Anne. 2



Telv. 2
E~ r
SIERRA LECEE                                                                               Fle 2
7NINR4TED AGRIC JLBIIRL DEYNHIlTE PR0JDFT 2I
NOYThR7/ AREA PROJECT
Vehicles, Plant and Ocutinnant
(L.e '100)
Unit                                                                                                        Foreign   Exchange                Local
Cone                Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Total               7.                Cost            Costs
eh-clcs aed Plant
Saloon cr O c                                          4.2            (1)  4.2                                             (1)  4.2             8.4              90                   7.6             0.8
Saleon tar (1000 cc)                                   3.2            12)  6.4                                             (2)  6.4            12.8               90                 11.3             1.3
Persnel..    carri-e                                   4.1            (1)  4.1                                             (1)  4.1             8.2              90                   7.4             0.8
Lorry (7-tee)                                          7.6            (1:  i.6                                                                  7.6               90                 64d              0.8
M.anr cyclea                                           0 4            (2)  0.8                             (2) 0.8                              1.6               90                  1.4             0.2
Ifoecles                                 ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         ~~0.1  (2)  0.2  0.2  90     0.2
23.1               -                0.8             14.7            38.8              9D                  34.9             3.9
2. kotreniosl  Vc .'ros.t Sacks es
Salnee car (2000 cc)                                   4.2            (1)  4.2                                             (1)  4.2             8.4               90                  7.6             0.a
4 Wheel Dri-e Tr-ck                                    6.0            61)  6.0                                             (1)  6.0             12.0              90                 10.0             1.2
Pick-np crock (30 c-a)                                 3.9            (9) 35.1                                            (9) 35.1             70.2              90                  63.2             7.0
Motor cyolen                                           0.4           (9)  7.6           (10) 4.0          (27)10.8       (70)  4.0             26.4               90                 23 .7            2.7
ticpcles                                 2~~     ~      ~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~.1  )9)0.9  (4) 0.4  (13) 1.3  (4)  0.4           3.0               90                  2.7            2DA
Personnel carrier                                      4.1            (1)  4.1                                            (1)  4.1              8.2              90                   7.4             3.8
leryr  7-to n =ith cage)                               7.6            (1)  7.6                                                                  7.6              90                   6.8             0.9
Li-e:tock tehicleo                                                         6.4                                 0.4              6.C            12.8              90                  10.3             1.3
Seed -lcipli-ato   anti                                                    15.0i                               0.4              7.8           2.3.2               90                           _
86.9               4.4             12.9             67.6           171.2               90                154.6            :2.2
3, toctevtsons 4 toed OneneloPra2t Scrci.,-r
Stleonecar f2000 ret                                   4.2                 4.2                                             (1   4.2             8.4              90                   7.6             C.8
4 Wheel Drive Vchicle                                  6.0           k(4   6.0                                             (1)  6.0            12.0               90                 10.8              1.2
P--noenel carrier                                      4.1            (1)  4.1                                             (1)  4.1             8.2              90                   7.4             0.8
Ml.cr cycles                                           0.4            (5)  20             (2) 0 a           9) 3.6         (2)      8            _                90 
16.3               0.6              3.4             15.1             001
4.  Ceineretallcrvkccs
Pick-op crock (30 owe)                                 3.9            (2)  7.8                                             (2)  7.8            15.6               90                 74.0             '.6
Mecer -yecle                                           0.4            (5)  2.0            (1) 0.4          (5) 2.0         (1)  0.4             4.8               9D0                 4.3             r 5
9.8               0.4              2.0              8.2            20.4               90                 18.3             2.1
1. Pro-jct Adsirl.;teatioc i-ei-ceo
Paureluroe                                                                 13.0                                                                 15.0              30                  4 5            10.5
PA3X Telephone and  Intallaslee                                            12.0                                                                12.0               50                  6.0             S.3
_yr -Itero                                             0.4            (52  2.0            (3) 2.0                                                4.0              90                  3.6
Phecotepier                                            2.0            (1)  2.0                                                                   2.0              90                  1.0             C.2
lspl cator                                             0.6            (1)  0.6                                                                   0.6              90                  O.3             2.1
1.0           (2)  2.0                                                                   2.0              90                  1.8
Calo1latero                                            0.2            (9)  1.8                                                                   1.8              90                   1.6
Oadlo TIcph-ec                                         1.5          710) 15.1                                                                  15.0              90                 13.5
hadiD Telephones                                        1 5                50.4               2.0               _                               52.4              644                33.3            19
2. Eotension S TreS nisg Ba-sires
Traloteg Center, conpnosd of:
Fsrt core and beds                                                    12.0                                                                 12.0               90                 10.8
ischen equip-nrt                                                        2.0                                                                  2.0              90                  1.8                2
Teaching eqgipocec                                                      2.0                                                                  2.0              90                  1.8             0.2
Fare cquip.e-t                                                          3.0                                                                  3.0              90                  2.7              -3
Office eqe-peert                                                        1.0                                                                 1.0               90                  0.9             O.
Et-e-sion aids                                                          1.0               1.0              0.5              0.5             3.0               90                  2.7             O.,
Oftic  acd  hchece-lip.eno                             0.4           (4)  1,6            (4) 1.6                                                3.2              90                   2.9             0.3
Siced  ollipli-cai-e on-t                                                  12.9               6.0                                               18.9              90                 17.0              1.9
- lesctock eqeip.n.Li/                                                     10.5              20.5              1.0              1.0             33.0             .02.                29.7             3.3
46.0              29.1              1.3               1.5            78.1              90                 70.3              7.8
3. Cictervatos t. L:nd OevecPneci BaSt3vieno
off-cc eqoipoenl                                       0.4            (3)  1.2            (4) 1.6                                                2.8              90                  2.5              0.3
Dranleg offtice eqojp-ev                                                    5.0                                                                  5.0              90                  4.3 S.5
So-vey eqoipne.c                                        0.8           (12)  9.6                                                                  9.6              90                  8.6              1.1
Colcolasern -large                                      1.0            (2)  2.0                                                                  2.0              90                   1.8             0.2
snall                                    0.2           (4)  0.8                                                                   0.8              90                   0.7             O.'
Eivalsaio- construction eqoipment and tools                                 5.0                                   _               _              5.0              90                    .5               , 3
23.6               1.6                                              25.2              190                 22.6             2.6
4.  Commercial Services
Carde-ches                                             0.2            (71   0.2                                                                  D.2              90                   0,2
Addeenengraph                                           0.4           (8)  3.2                                                                   3.2              90                   2.9             0.3
Calolacor - largs                                       1.0           (1)  I.0                                                                   1.0              90                   C.9             0.1
-'all                                     0.2            (8)  1.6                                                                  1.6              90                   1,4             0.2
0Efice Cornitoen                                       04              (8)  3.2                                                                  3.2              50                   1.4              ,
Service centerequipme    ,                              1.7            (6) 10.2                                                                 10.2              90                   9.2             1.0
Woighteg scales            1                                               19.4                -                 _                -             19.4              84                  16.2             3.2
5. Coverstcteio  Unir (in-l. vehiclss)                                         43.1             177.8               1.0              _             221.9              90                 199.7            22.2
i  't   4 d_ A 1.                                 318.8              216.1             2>.8             107.1          663.8               88                582.2             21.6



SIERRA LEONE
INTBGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEl PMENT PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Buildings. Furnishings and Construction Materials
Le '000
Unit               Year           Year       Year   Year                               Foreign Exchange       Local
Cost                1               2          3      4             Total                  %       Cost       Costs
1. Project Administration Services
Senior Staff House ..............          22.0       (2)   44.0                                                 44.o               60           26.4    17.6
Project Office ................0... l    (I)  lOO.0                                                            100.0                60          60.0    4o.o
Project Store.1 0.0 .)    10.0                                                                                   10.0               6jQ           6.o      4.o
154.0                                              154.o                60          92.4    61.6
2. Ectension & Training Services
Senior Staff House ..............          22.0       (3)   66.0                                                66.o                60           39.6    26.4
Field Offices .......... 0,               , 8.         (5)   40.0                                                40.0               60           24.0    16.0
Training Center Comprising:
Lecture Room 100 m .8.0                             ()    8.0    (l)    8.0                                    16.0               60           9.6      6.4
(1)  (1)                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~6.0     60           3.6      2.4
Kitchen .......,,.,.,      .              6.0        1)    6.0                         6.o                                         60           6 2.4
Dining Room.10.0                                    (1)   10.0                                                20.0                60           6.0      4.0
Domitories ..................           12.0         1)   12.0    (1)   12.0                                  24.0                60          14.4      9.6
Toilets/Washroom .............            9..0218.0                                                                               60           10.8     7.2
Store ....2.                               0        (1)  2.0                                                    2.0               60            1.2   0.8
Office........................            8.0       (1)    8.0                         8.o                                        60            o.6     o,2
Toolshed                                 1.0        (1)    1.0                                                  1.0               60            0.6      0.4
Seed Multiplication Unit:
Land Preparation ..............22.2                                                                            22.2               60
Buildings .....................                                                                                21.4               60           26.2    17.4
Livestock Unit ................                            22.0                                               22.0                60           13.2      8.8
236.6           20.0                               256.6                60         154.0   102.6
3. Conservation & Land Development Services
Senior Staff House ..............           22.0       (2)   44.0                                                44.0                60          26.4    17.6
Office ........,.,...........               8.0       (7)    8.0                                                  8.0                60           4.8      3.2
Store    ,      .........._                                                    8.0 6o) 8.0                                           60           4.8       3.2
60.0                                               60.0                60          36.0      24.0
4. Comomercial Services
Senior Staff House .......... I ...       22.0         (l)   22.0                                                22.0                r0          13.2      8.8                            0
40.0               60           24.0    16.0            X
Service Center Office ............0 .                        40 0.                                               25.0                            15.0      10.0 o
87.0                                               87.0                 a52.2    34.8
5. ConstructiOn Materials for Roads all! Wells                   86.5          123.0       41.5   52.0             303.0                 0       _181.8    121.2
TOTAL                                    624.1            143.0      -1.5   52.0             860.6                           516.4   344.2



SIERRA LEONE
INTGiRATED AG1iICULTtEAL DkEVELOPPi    POJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(all Departments)
Le '000
Annual
/1          Unit                                                                                                           Foreign Exchange       Local
Prolect Management Unit -             Cost                                 Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4          Total  %       Cost             Costs
7 ton lorry                            6.8                              (1) 6.8         (1) 6.8          (1)   6.8        (1)  6.8            27.2  70    19.0                8.2
5 ton lorry                            6.5                              (1)  6.5        (1)  6.5        (1)   6.5         (1)  6.5            26.o  70    18.2                7.8
Saloon car  (2000 cc)                  2.8                              (3) 8.4         (3)  8.4        (3)   8.4         (3)  8.4            33.6  70    23.6               10.0
Saloon car  (1000 cc)                  2.2                              (2)  4.4        (2) 4.4          (2)   4.4        (2)  4.4            17;6  70    12.3                5.3
Pick-up truck  30 cwt.                 3.0                            (11) 33.0        (11) 33.0       (11)  33.0       (11) 33.0            132.0  70    92.4               39.6
Personnel carrier                      2.4                              (3)  7.2        (3)  7.2        (3)   7.2         (3)  7.2            28.8  70    20.2                8.6
Land Rover                             5.0                              (2) 10.0        (2) 10.0        (2)  10.0         (2) 10.0            40.0  70    28.0               12.0
Motor Cycles                           0.5                             (31) 15.5       (44) 22.0       (60)  30.0        (60) 30.0            97.5  70    67.5               30.0
Bicycles                               ---                                   2-0             2.0               2.0             2.0             8.0. 70       5.6               2.4
93.8           100.3            108.3            108.3           410.7  70   286.8              123.9
Seed Multiplication Unit                                                     3.7             8.6               8.8             8.9            30.0  70    21.0                 9.0
Construction Unit                                                           70.4            73.7              73.7            74.1           291.9  60   174.6               117.3
Livestock Unit                                                               6.0             6.0              6.0              6.0            24.0  70    17.0                 7.0
TOTAL                                               173.9            188.6            196.8           197.3            756.6  66   499.4              257.2
/1  Cost Distribation - Project Administration  5%
Technical Department   60%
Comnercial Department 30%
Development Department  5%                                                                                                                       Xx
0.    0I -
I 



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPiENI PROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
General Services
Le '000
Unit                                                                                                              Foreign  Exchange                    Local
Cost                   Year 1            Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Total               Ii                 Cost              Costs
Rents
Project Adm iniistration Services
House Rental                                    1.2                      6.0              3.6               3.6               3.6              16.8              -                                      16.8
House Rental                                    0.4                      4.0              4.0               4.0               4.0              16.0              -                                      16.0
Extension & Training Services
House Rental                                     1.2                     6.0               3.6              3.6               3.6              16.8              -                                      16.8
House Rental                                    0.4                      2.8               2.8              2.8               2.8              11.2              -                                      11.2
House Rental - Village                          0.1                      3.0               5.0              6.0               6.0              20.0              -                                      20.0
Conr;rvation A Land Development Services
House Rental                                    0.6                      0.6               0.6              0.6               0.6               2.4              -                                       2.4
House Rental - Village                          0.1                      0.7               0.9              1.1               1.1               3.8              -                                       3.8
Commercial Services
House Rental                                    0.6                      0.6               0.6              0.6               0.6               2.4              -                                       2.4
House Rental                                    0.4                      2.8               2.8              2.8               2.8              11.2              -                                      11.2
Subtotal                                                     26.5             23.9              25.1              25.1             100.6              -                     -               100.6
Administration
Office running costs (incl. stationery)                                      15.0              15.0              15.0              15.0             60.0              50                    30.0              30.0
Audit fee and legal expenses                                                  7.0               7.0               7.0               7.0             28.0              -                                       28.0
Telephone and Cables                                                          5.0               5.0               5.0               5.0             20.0              -                                       20.0
Building maintenance                                                         10.0              12.0              13.0              10.0             45.0              50                    22.0              23.0
Residential farmer training costs                                             6.0               6.0               6.0               6.0              24.0             -                                       24.0
Insurance                                                                     8.0               9.0               9.0              9.0              35.0              -                                       35.0
Entertainment                                                                 3.0               3.0               3.0               3.0             12.0              -                                       12.0
Internal travel                                                               5.0               5.0               5.0               5.0             20.0              -                                       20.0
Subtotal                                                     59.0             62.0              63.0              60.0             244.0             21                    52.0             192.0
Seed Multiplication Unit
Maintenance and rents                                                    ---               3.0               3.0              3.0               9.0              50                    4.9               4.5
Farm inputs (other than fertilizer,
seeds, and chemicals)                                              0.6               3.6               3.6               3.6              11.4             70                     8.0               3.4
Subtotal                                                      0.6               6.6              6.6               6.6              20.4              61                   12.5               7.9
Construction Unit                                                              8.0              8.0               8.5               8.5              33.0              -                      -               33.0
T O T A L                                                    94.1             100.5            103.2             100.2             398.0              16                     64.5           333.5 . 5m
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



SIERIR  LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FROJECT II
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Summary of Farm Input Costs
Le 1000
Foreign Exchange
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3     Year 4      Total     0/0      Cost     Local Costs
Fertilizers1
for incremental seasonal 2/         14.3       57.5        86.5       101.5      259o8       84      218.2     41.6
for multiplication farm 2/           0.7        4.5         4.5         4.5       1492       84       11.8      2.4
sub-total                      15.0       62.0        91.0       106.0      274.o       84      230.0     44.0
Other in-uts:
-seeds for farmers (incrementalO/    5.0        53.6       18.6         29.2      106.4      -         -       106.4
seeds for multiplication farm /      0.2        1.4         1.4         1.4        4.4       -        -         4.4
pesticides/herbicides:
farms (incremental)4/             0.1         0.4        0.5         0.5        1.5       85        1.3      0.2
multiplication farm 2/             -          2.1        2.1         2.1        6.3       85        5.4      0.9
tools for swamp development5'        3.3         9.8       13.0        13.0       39.1       50       19.6     19.5
labor for swamp development5/       21.3        63.8       85.0        85.0      255.1       -         -      255.1
sprayers          6'                 002        0.5         1.0         1.5        3.2       85        2.7      0.5
unidentified items'                  5.0         5.0        5.0         5.0        20.0      50       10.0     10.0
Sub-total                      35.1       136.6      126.6       137.7      436.0        9       39.0    397.0
Total farm input costs                 50.1       196.6      217.6       243.7      710.0       36      269.0    441.0
1/  Volume 2, Annex 4, Table 3
2/   Volume 2, Annex 4, Table 7
3/   Volume 2, Annex 4j Table 2
4/   Volume 2, Annex 4, Table 8
5/  Volume 2, Annex 2, Table 1
6/   including costs to cover pigs, feedstuffs, fruit trees etc.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Volume 3
Annexes
1.   Performance of Ongoing Project Credit 323SL
2.   Project Area
3.   Farm and Crop Development
4.   Marketing and Farm Inputs
5.   Eastern Area Project Costs






Volume 3
Annex 1
SIERRA LEONE.
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Performance of Ongoing Integrated Agricultural Development Project--Credit 323SL
1.        The Credit was signed in June 1972 and the project became effective
in the following December. The project runs for three years affecting three
crop seasons: 1973, 1974, and 1975. Although slow starting, and under
difficult conditions, the project is achieving its targets and farmers of
the project area are responding well. The main objectives of the project
were to establish 6,000 acres of inland swamp rice, 750 acres of new cocoa,
1,830 acres of outgrower oil palm and 510 acres of estate oil palm plantings.
These physical objectives will be obtained and project funds, now nearly
fully committed, should be disbursed by September 1975.
2.        A few problems have emerged from the project, including:
(a) the existence of two arms of MANR working the same area.
Under the new project all MANR staff would come under project
control;
(b) the high cost in funds and staff required to distribute inputs
and recover credit, currently being rectified through a group
approach--particularly applicable to swamp rice;
(c) the lack of the proper institutions to carry the development
forward after the project impetus has been established. At
the time of Credit signing, Government and IDA envisaged
setting up an Agricultural Development Authority (ADA) to
take over the project and institutional responsibilities from
MANR. In the intervening time, both Government and IDA have
concluded that the ADA would not be an appropriate institution.
The main Government opposition to ADA came from MANR officials,
who saw ADA as a weakening of MANR control. IDA, on the other
hand, saw ADA as another multifunctional institution, with heavy
overhead costs, and really no chance of being more efficient
than present organizations and institutions. Instead, it is
now considered that credit and processing institutions be
established at local levels, for ultimate farmer control.
Such local institutions could be developed in other areas of
the countries taking full cognizance of the economic and tribal



Volume 3
Annex 1
Page 2
differences within the country. Eventually such institutions,
if warranted, could be brought under appropriate holding companies
or corporations.
3.        The deficiencies outlined above would be rectified under this new
project with the strategy of providing a firm service base to farmers in
the Eastern area so that development after 1977 can take place with minimum
financial assistance from external sources.



Volume 3
Annex 2
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Project Area
Page
A.   Description                                            1
Geography                                        1
Climate                                          1
Soils                                            2
Vegetation                                       2
Population                                       2
Communications                                   2
Services                                         2
B.   Agriculture                                            3
Farm System                                      3
Farm Size                                        4
Land Tenure                                      4
Crop Production                                  4
Table 1   Land Use
Table 2   Farm Population
Table 3   Cropping Patterns
Table 4   Cropping Details of Principal Crops
Table 5   Rainfall Records






Volume 3
Annex 2
Page 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
The Project Area
A. Description
1.        Geography.  The Eastern Area Project (EAP) lies between latitudes
6058' and 80221 North and longitudes 10°37' and 11°53' West, and comprises
23 chiefdoms in Eastern Province and nine chiefdoms in Southern Province
giving a total of 2,750,000 acres or 4,300 square miles. Topographically,
the area covers three major zones. To the north and north east are the
intermediate uplands, lying between the inland plains and the internal
plateaux. This is a continuation of the scarp face that forms the north
western boundary of the Northern Area Project (NAP) but is here in a much
more advanced stage of erosion, giving a steeply undulating zone, 350' to
950' a.s.l. covering around 70% of the project area, and dissected by
several hill ranges which are granite residues of the old scarp face.
South west of the intermediate zone are the inland plains, 30-50 miles
wide and 100-350' a.s.l. and bounded on the south by the coastal swamp belt
most of which lies below 50'. A major river, the Moa, drains from the
plateau in a south westerly direction. The provincial town, Kenema, lies
centrally in the project area.
2.        Climate. Annual rainfall, based on a 15-year average of record
taken at Kenema is 109.0 ins of which 95 ins falls from May through November
and 14 ins from December through April. To the south of the project area,
annual rainfall rises markedly to a maximum of around 170 ins at the coast
(see Table 5). Dry season rainfall is generally higher and more reliable
than in the north.
3.        Soils.  Geologically the area comprises the granite and acid
gneisses, which underlie the intermediate zone, the Kasila series of
crystalline schists and gneisses which underlie the inland plain, and the
Bullam series of marine and estuarine sediments along the coastal swamp
zone. Soils are mainly lateritic sands with varying clay content, acids
(ph 5.0-6.0), free draining and with a low nuttient status. In general,
the eastern soils are recognized as being superior to those of the north
due to lower laterite and higher clay content, and to a greater thickness
of peat/clay topsoils in the swampland areas. Throughout the upland areas,



Volume 3
Annex 2
Page 2
the soil catena is generally more pronounced than the north with stony
sandier soils on the hill crests to sand clay loams on the lower slopes.
The area is also more liberally strewn with inland swamps which are larger
and have shallower gradients than those in the north.
4.        Vegetation.  The ecology of the area is closely comparable to the
dense farm bush in the southern half of the NAP, dominated by fast growing,
fire resistant species (see Volume 2) which thrive under the bush/fallow
system. However, the area contains over 20,000 acres of forest reserves and
protected forest areas, and areas of high trees traditionally surround many
of the Mende villages, and are used as shade for cocoa and coffee.
5.        Population.  Total population of the area is estimated at 475,000
in 1974 of which 400,000 are living in the rural areas. In contrast to the
NAP, the northern part of the project area is characterized by an excess of
males over females, this being due to the attractions of diamond mining
which has likewise caused a marked increase in urban population in EAP
since the early 1950's.
6.        Most of the 18 ethnic groups of Sierra Leone are represented in
the project area but the Mende tribe is wholly dominant. Along the coast
towards the Liberian border are settlements of Kum, Vai and Gola, which
are minor groups almost entirely concentrated in this area.
7.        Farm families are smaller than at Makeni, averaging 4 working
adults and 2 children, giving a total of around 65,000 in the project area.
Traditional administration is comparable to the NAP and is likewise strong
and respected.
8.        Communications.  A paved road links Kenema to Bo and Pendembu to
Daru, and there is a network of unpaved trunk roads joining the 12 principal
towns. There is a low density of feeder roads, however, and a large pro-
portion of the area is serviced only by footpaths or by secondary roads
which are unmotorable due to poor drainage and lack of maintenance. For
the latter, a low level of investment could make a significant impact on
development prospects for the area.
9.        Services.  Reticulated water supplies have been installed at
Kenema, Pujehun, Panguma and Daru. The remaining urban and rural settle-
ments rely on streams and groundwater for supply, but the hydrology of the
area is such that dry season supply is more available and reliable than
at Makeni. Electricity supplies have been installed at Kenema, Daru and
Pujehun.



Volume 3
Annex 2
Page 3
B. Agriculture
10.       Farm System.  The bush/fallow system of shifting cultivation is
the dominant form of agricultural practice and essentially comparable to
that described in Volume 2. This section will highlight the important
differences of agricultural practice between the two project areas.
11.       For the Eastern Area Project, it has been possible to draw useful
information from the results of the 1970/71 Agricultural Statistical Survey,
this being due primarily to the greater size of the project area, embracing
major portions of three districts (Kenema, Kailahun, Pujehun) for which
specific information is presented in the survey report. This is in contrast
to NAP which occupies too small a portion of the northern districts of
Bombali and Tonkolili to make statistical extrapolation feasible. Never-
theless, there are interesting comparisons between eastern and northern
agriculture as a whole, and for this reason land use and cropping pattern
information has been analyzed for these five districts and for Bo district
which is 90% outside the Eastern project area on the western side. The
results of this analysis are given in Tables 2 through 5.
12.       In terms of cropping patterns, there is a marked contrast in that
the EAP contains the principal cash crop areas of Sierra Leone. Cocoa and
coffee production are centered on the Pendembu, Segbwema, Kenema belt and,
in the case of coffee, there are smaller concentrations around Pujehun and
Zimmi in the south. These concentrations are primarily a function of dry
season rainfall reliability and the availability of suitable soils and
natural shade trees. Oil Palm is an important crop in the center of the
project area, and the southern coastal belt is important for Piassava. 1/
Groundnuts, a major crop in the north are of minor importance in the EAP.
The contrast in cropping patterns is shown clearly in the Agricultural
Statistical Survey findings (see Volume 1).
13.       There is a greater potential for swamp rice development in the
Eastern Area project due to a higher density of swamps, greater swamp size
and to more favorable soils. While the 1970/71 Agricultural Statistical
Survey shows a high degree of existing swamp cultivation, this is understood
to result from a large proportion of only partly cleared swamps. In common
with other swamp areas in Sierra Leone, there is also a generally observed
pattern of declining rice yield if swamp production is not accompanied by
appropriate technological improvements.
14.       Throughout the project area, rising population is causing consid-
erable pressure on the uplands and a corresponding decline in fallow period.
In many areas, around 20% of the cultivable uplands are annually cultivated,
and fallow periods rarely extend beyond 6-7 years. As a result there is an
1/   A vegetable fibre obtained from the lower part of the leaf stalks of
the raphia palm and used for producing brushes.



Volume 3
Annex 2
Page 4
increasing trend towards swampland cultivation and it is important that
this trend is supported by adequate improvements in water control, and crop
technology.
15.       Farm Size.  Farm size in the Eastern area is probably smaller
than in the north, but this difference is primarily a function of family
size. The composition of the holding, however, differs markedly due to a
lower ratio of annual crops to perennials. The Agricultural Statistical
Survey suggests average holdings size of 6-7 acres, of which the area
cultivated under the bush/fallow system amount to 2-3 acres. Swamp culti-
vation is undertaken by 30-40% of growers and average swamp holdings range
from 1-3 acres. In Pujehun, where there is a greater dependence on fish
as a source of income, holding sizes are around 50% of the average for
Kenema and Kailahun districts.
16.       Land Tenure.  The system of land tenure is essentially comparable
to that of the north, though the practice of land pledging is uncommon. In
the context of swamp land, however, the practical implications of tenure
are affected by the greater availability of uncleared land, and the indi-
cations are that the proportion of "begged" land is lower, most farmers
cultivating with the security of an inheritable usufruct.
17.       Crop Production.  Husk rice yields in developed swamps were
measured in a crop cutting survey in which sample plots were harvested in
25% of swamps which had water control measures and crop inputs provided
under the project. Climatic conditions were favorable and the weighted
average, corrected to 16% moisture was 2,640 lbs per acre. Unfortunately
control cuttings were not undertaken in unimproved swamps so that base line
comparisons are not possible. While the controversy surrounding yield surveys
and trials in the Eastern Area are no less than those of the north, there
are indications that the assumed 1,200 lbs per acre used during appraisal
of the first phase project may be too low, and this should be investigated
before further investment proposals are drawn up. In view of the uncertainty
of existing figures, economic analysis of the current investment proposals
have included sensitivity tests using differing base line yield levels.
No yield recordings have been undertaken for cocoa or oil palm, and until
investigation is extended to these crops, the base yields of the first phase
project appraisal are assumed.



Volume 3
Annex 2
Table 1
SIE;RA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
1970/71 Agricultural Statistical Survey
Iand Use
--NORTHERN AREA--   -----E ASTERN AREA-----
Bombali   Tonkalili   Kailahun  Kenema    Bo    Pujehun
Gross Land Area    sq miles   3,083       2,704        1,490    2,337   2,015   1,585
ac'OO0     1,973.1    1,730.6        953.6  l,495.7 l,289.6 1,014.4
Forest Land
Reserves         ac'000         17.3         3.6        73.9    193.2    32.0      7.0
Protected        ac'000          6.2       18.7          8.0     10.4      5.4     2.7
Total            ac'000         23.5       22.2         81.9    203.6    37.4      9.7
%              12         13         8.6      13.6     2.9    10
Cropped Land
Smallholder      actOOO         85.5       81.3        163.9    276.8   120.1    49.4
Large Farms      ac'000           .7        2.1          104       .5       1.4    1l.
Total            ac'000         86.2       83.4        16503    277.3   121.5    505
%       ~      4.4        4h3         17.3      18.5     9.4     5.0
Residual 1/        ac'000      l,863.4-   1,625.0        70604  1,014.8 1,130.7   954.2
%             94.4        93.9        74.1      67.8    87.7    94.1
1 From Table 2 of the Survey Report, Includes uncultivable land, cultivable
but uncultivated land, land under bush fallow, roads, villages, streams,
rivers etc.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGfIECULTURAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT II
1970/71 Agricultural Statistical Survey
Farm Population
--NORTHERN AREA---          ----- --EASTERN AREA- -------- -
Bombali   Tonkalaili    Kailahun   Kenema       Bo    Pujehun
Total Population    Land Area                     sq mls    3,083        2,704         1,490     2,337    2,015   1s585
Total Population             '000         234.2       217.3         177.0      267.9    247.1   100.0
Population/sq ml             No.           76          80           119        115      123       63
Farm Population     Males/Females (10 yrs         '000          42.4        36.2          43.7       58.7     52.7    29.0
Males         >10 yrs        '000          32.3        44.6          53.8      121.6    124.5    29.1
Females       >10 yrs        t000          39.3        41.8          51.2       99.5    116.5    33.1
Total                        tQQQ         114.0       122.6         148.7      279.8    293.7    91.2
Holders                     t'00           17.8        15.0          23.5       42.1     33.8    17.3
Farm Family                  No.            6.4         8.2           6.3        6.6      8.7      5.3
Farm Density        Holders/sq mi                 No.            5.8         5.5          15.8       18.0     16.8    10.9
Gross acres/holder           ac           111         115            41         36       38       59
Cultivated acres/holder      ac             4.8         5.4           7.0        6.6      3.6      2.9
Cultivated acres/gross
acres      %              4.3          4.7         17.1       18.3      9.5      4.9
> Taken from 1962 Census and compounding at 1.5% pa0 -This growth figure is considered by many to be too low,
and, in any case, takes no account of migratory trends. Thus, in Kenemas the total population so projected
is less than the farm population obtained from the survey0
CDt1
CDX 
rz\) 



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRIa3LTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
1970/71 Agricultural Statistical Survey
Cropping Patterns
-------NORTHERN AREA-------               -------------------------EASTERN AREA------------------------
Bombali              Tonkalili            Kailahun               Kenema                  Bo                 Pulehun             Notes 1/
------------------------------ --------------Acres'OOO     (%)-------- -------- ------- ------- -------
Total Cultivated Area 2/                 86.1  (100)           82.0  (100)         166.2  (100)         281.7  (100)         121.9  (100)           50.8  (100)
Annual Crops                           84.6   (98)          81.3   (99)          60.9   (37)          107.0   (38)         115.0    (94)         44.5   (88)
Perennial Crops                         1.5    (2)             .7     (1)       105.3   (63)          174.7   (62)           6.9      (6)          6.3    (12)
Total Annual Crops                       84.6  (loo)           81.3  (100)          60.9  (100)         107.0  (100)         115.0  (100)           44.5  (100)
Upland Rice                            46.8   (55)          66.0   (81)          39.4   (65)           71.6   (67)          90.5    (79)          33.2   (75)            All major mixtures.
Swamp Rice                              7.0     (8)          7.2      (9)         13.5   (22)          24.9   (23)          16.5    (14)           4.4    (10)           Kenema 54% P.S.  Rest 75-100% P.S.
Cassava                                 2.2     (3)            .4   (Z1)            .5     (1)          1.8      (2)           .9     (1)          3.4      (8)          P.S. and minor mixtures.
Groundnuts                             14.4    (17)          1.8      (2)           .7     (1)          1.5      (2)         2.5      (2)          1.4      (3)          P.S. and major mixtures.
Maize                                   3.7      (4)         2.7      (3)          1.4     (2)          1.8    (2)           1.9      (2)          1.3      (3)          Mostly minor mixtures. Bombali 45% P.S.
Sweet Potato                            1.3     (2)          -        -            2.2     (4)           .3   ((1)             .6     (1)          -       -            Mostly P.S.
Millet                                  6.8      (8)           .4   (41)            .7     (1)          2.2      (2)           .2    (41)            .2   (41)           Mostly minor mixtures.
Guinea Corn                             1.2      (1)         2.3      (3)          1.0     (2)          1.9      (2)           .2   (41)             .2   (41)           Mostly minor mixtures.
Cocoyam                                  .2  (Ol)            -        -            1.2     (2)            .1   (<1)          1.2      (1)            .2   (41)           Kenema minor mixtures, rest P.S.
Other                                    .7      (1)           .5     (1)           .3   (<1)             .9    (1)            .5   (c-)             .2   (41)           Mainly benniseed in the north.
Total Perennial Crops ac'OOO              1.5                    .7                105.3  (100)         174.7  (100)            6.9  (100)           6.3  (100)
Coffee                                tr                     -                   41.6   (40)          104.7   (60)           4.0    (58)           3.7    (59)           Mainly major mixtures.
Cocoa                                   -                    -                    56.8   (54)          57.3    (33)            .1     (1)            .3     (5)          Mainly major mixtures.
Bananas/Plantains                        .3                    .2                  3.4     (3)          3.9      (2)           .7    (10)            .5     (8)          East mainly P.S. Rest mainly isolated.
Kolanuts                              tr                   tr                       .2   (41)           4.5      (3)          1.0    (14)            .5    (8)           Kenema all P.S.  Bo isolated. Rest 50% P.S.
Oranges                                  .8                    .3                  2.8     (3)          3.3      (2)           .6     (9)            .7   (11)           Mainly mixtures.
Other                                    .4                    .2                   .5    (n1)          1.0      (1)           .5     (7)            .6    (10)
i/ All acreages converted to pure stand equivalents by the National Statistical Office, Freetown.  Notations are as follows:
P.S.                       -  Pure Stand
Major mixture,             -  Crop grown in a mixed stand, but as the major crop.
Minor mixture              =  Crop grown in a mixed stand as a minor crop.
Isolated (tree crops) = Grown singly rather than in a plantation.
2/ Total equals summation of individual crops as recorded in table 26 of Survey report.  This does not exactly agree with summation of holding acreage due to procedure of
converting mixed crop acreage to pure stand equivalents.                                                                                                                                                                    i



Volume 3
Annex 2
SIERRA LEONE                        Table 4
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
1970/71 Agricultural Statistical Survey
Cropping Details of Principal Crops
-NORTHERN AREA-  -------EASTERN AREA
Bombali Tonkalili Kailahun  Kenema   Bo   PuJehun
Total       Acreage       ac?OOO    85.5        81.3     163.9     276.8  1201   49.4
Holding     Growers       '000      17.8        15.0      23.5      42.1  33.8  17.3
Acres/grower  ac         4.8         5.4       7.0       6.6    3.6    2.9  /
Upland      Acreage       ac'OOO    46.8        66.o      39.4      71.6   90c5   33.2
Rice        % of total    %         55          81        24        26     75      67
Growers       '000      12.5       13.2       15.5      23.7   23.8   llo1
% of total    %         70         88         66        56     70     64
Acres/grower  ac         3.8         5.0       2.5       300    3.8    300
Acreage       ac'OOO     7.0         7.2      l305      24.9   16.5    414
Rice        % of total    %          8           9         8         9     14       9
Growers       ?000       6.6         3.4      l0o0      14.6  11.3    6.9
% of total    %         37          23        43        35     33     40
Acres/grower  ac        11          21      14        1.7    1.5      o6
Groundnuts  Acreage       ac'OOO    14.4        18         .7       1.5    2.5    1.4
% of total    %         17           2       <1        (l       2       3
Growers      t'00       10.2        19        1.5       2.4    2.7    2.6
% of total    %         57          13         6         6      8     15
Acres/grower  ac         1o4          o9        o5        o6      o9    35
Cassava     Acreage       ac'OOO     2.1       *            o3       103      .3    3.2
% of total    %          2           -       <1         <1    tr       6
Growers       '000       2.4      *             o5       1.9    1.5    5.5
% of total    %         11           -         2         5      4     32
Acres/grower  ac          09         -          .6        o7     o2      .6
Coffee      Acreage       acOOO   tr            -        4L6      10o47    14O    3.7
% of total    %          -           -        25        38      3       7
Growers       '000     tr            -        10.6      20.3    2.2    407
% of total    %          -           -        45        48      7     27
Acres/grower  ac          .2         -         3.9       5.2    1.8      o8
Cocoa       Acreage       acOOO     -           -        56.8      57.3      .1      3
% of total    %          -           -        35        21    tr      (1
Growers       OOO       -           -        llo3      12.5     o4      o5
% of total    %          -          -         48        30      1      3
Acres/grower  ac         -           -         5.0       4.6      o2     .6
'/ This figure disagrees with that of the 1970/71 Survey. A computation error is
assumed.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Rainfall Records
Lat.   Long.   No. of
Station            IN     VW      Years 2  Jan. Feb. March Apr   Ma   June  July  Ag   Sept0  Oct0  Nov0  Dec0  Total
_________ __--                  --in s---- jfl             .~~~  - -..~
Panghma           8011, 11008,    15        0050  1.33  4.96  5.83  9.49 11L77 13.88 20-54 17.43 11.87  7090  1.61  107.11
Pendembu Hospital 80071  10042'    20       0.47  1.50  4.61  6.06 10.67 11.53 13447 16.57 15.49 12.80  6.56  2.07  101.80
Daru              70591  10052'    45       0.34  1.38  4.00  6.94 10.73 12.11 14h38 14.37 16.52 12.57  7.56  1.89  102.79
Kenema Farm       7053'  11011,    15       0.81  1.66  3.77  5.46 10.38 11.94 15.32 13.59 17.61 13.64  7,51  2.35  104.04
Nyeama             7049'  10057i     9      0.58  2.39  4.87  5.57 10.92 12.01 10.63 14.68 15.11 15.12  8.62  2.33  102.83
Gberia Timako     7045?  11011?      6      0.01  0.75  1,20  2.44  6,99  9.32 10.97 11.36 14.81 .1.140  2.56  0.47   72.28
Kpuabu            70301  110059    5        1.25  1,98  3.09  6.88 12.00 12.25 14.62 18.92 19.49 15.88  8.41  o.56  115.33
0
Pujehun           70211  11 43'    22       0.67  0.90  2,21  5.86 11.11 17.02 29.20 26,41 24.26 12.71  8,32  1.55  140.22
Sulima            6058'  110359    19       1.17  1.07  2.60  4.15 15.44 30.78 37.60 25.38 28.07 15.63  8,73  2.98  173.60
_  Up to 1966, except for Daru for which records were available up to 1973.
CDt1






Volume 3
Annex 3
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Farm and Crop Development
Page
A.   Inland Valley Swamps                                   1
Background                                       1
Rice Development                                 1
Rotational Crops                                 3
B.   Upland Development                                     4
Background                                       4
Rice Development                                 4
Cocoa Development                                5
Oil Palm Development                             5
C.   Resource Evaluation                                    6
Table 1   Swamp Development Costs
Table 2   Inland Swamp Rice - One Acre Farm Budget
Table 3a  Swamp Rice Development Cash Flow
(Category A Swamps)
Table 3b  Swamp Rice Development Cash Flow
(Category B Swamps)
Table 4   Upland Rice - One Acre Farm Budget
Table 5   Cocoa Planting - Per Acre Annual Costs
Table 6   Cocoa - One Acre Development Cash Flow
Table 7   Oil Palm Outgrowers - Per Acre Annual Costs
Table 8   Oil Palm Outgrowers - Development Costs
Table 9   Oil Palm Outgrowers - One Acre Development Cash Flows
Table 10  Cropping Program
Table 11  Husk Rice Production Projection
Table 12  Cocoa Production Projection
Table 13  Oil Palm Production Projection






Volume 3
Annex 3
Page 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Farm and Crop Development
A. Inland Valley Swamps
Baeckround
1.        Inland valley swamps are an important feature of the Eastern
Area occupying about 10 0/0 of the gross land area. They are generally
large (average gross area around 20 acres but some are over 200 acres),
linear in shape and have shallow gradients. During 1973, 480 acres of
swampland were developed, and a further 2,800 acres are under development
in the current year. Experience gained over these two seasons has led to
simple but effective water control measures to be implemented with an
impressive farmer response rate.
2.        Considerable areas of inland swamps are presently cultivated
by farmers outside of the ongoing project. In most cases, however, the
swamps are partly cleared only, and satisfactory water control measures
and purchased crop inputs are not employed. Initially the project has
concentrated on swamps already cleared and under part cultivation. In
successive years, through opening new swamp areas and through complete
clearing and development of existing swamps, a significant increase in
the total area under swamp cultivation is expected as well as improved
productivity per acre (see Section C).
Rice Development
3.        Water Control.  A low technology approach for swamp water control
has been employed by the Eastern Area Project (EAP), the main objective of
which are: provision of adequate drainage system; prevention of flood
damage; conservation of water for irrigation as required, and provision of
structural layout so as to minimize the amount of work necessary to bring
the swamp into production. Within this broad framework, design criteria
for individual swamps are determined by catchment area, drainage lines and
soil texture, and by the managerial abilities of the farmers and farm
groups involved.



Volume 3
Annex 3
Page 2
4.        In its simplest form, the structures comprise a central drainage
and supply canal with peripheral protective bunding and interplot ridging,
irrigation being effectively achieved by blocking the central canal and
inundating backwards. A "squared" plot layout is possible provided that
swamp gradients are sufficiently shallow. This design is easily understood
by farmers and used where a generally low level of technology is applicable.
5.        More advanced designs include header-bunds from the central canal
leading to peripheral irrigation canals from which flow can be directed
into the paddy lots. This layout generally results in a larger proportion
of the swamp being developed and also permits terraced levelling of the
paddy lots. In swamps with light textured soil types below a shallow top
soils, grassed waterways have been used instead of drainage channels.
6.        Some interesting practical design aspects have emerged from the
work at Kenema. It is difficult to persuade farmers to dig very large
central drains where necessitated by catchment size. In such cases safety
measures were incorporated into underdesigned systems such as constructing
spillages in the header well, and setting the drain bunds back from the
drain edge as far as a man could reach with a shovel. All channel walls
are "side-sloped" except for the peripheral irrigation channels, since a
vertical edge presents a more formidable obstacle to "cutting grass"
(Thrynomys swinderianus - a rodent that causes large scale damage to the
standing rice crop).
7.        The organization of swamp development will be encouraged on a
group basis, since this conforms to the technical aspects of treating the
swamp as a whole and is in accord with the aim of encouraging farmer groups
in order to permit economies of scale in farm input supplies and credit
administration.
8.        Loans of Le 48.50 were included in the first project to cover
hired labor and material costs for swamp development. These were found
to be adequate for swamps where major clearing work has been previously
undertaken but inadequate for those where complete development work was
necessary. Two categories of development loan have therefore been introduced,
calculated on a per acre basis, and will be issued either to individuals or
to organized swamp development groups as the circumstances of the swamp
dictates, this assessment being the responsibility of the project management
unit. Estimated swamp development costs are given in Table 1.
9.        Varieties.  Five varieties--RH2, RC4, CP4, Nachin 11, and IRS,
were supplied to project farmers in 1973 and all but IR5 are included for
1974. This has largely resulted from problems of supply, and it is intended
to limit varieties once variety trial results 1/ are assessed and supplies
1/   Trials in the project area are being undertaken by the West African
Rice Research Station, Rokupr.



Volume 3
Annex 3
Page 3
of seed are secured from the projects seed farms (see Annex 5). The 1974
plantings also include BD2 and IR20, and the project has been advised to
concentrate on these two varieties and IR442 which has been highly successful
elsewhere in West Africa. All three varieties are higher yielding under
swamp conditions and are also of shorter duration. This will enable the
harmful effects of the harmattan on milling quality to be reduced through
earlier harvesting; the existing varieties are mainly long duration and
harvesting extends well into January.
10.       Fertilizers.  Project farmers are currently using a low basic
application of 1 cwt of sulphate of ammonia and 1 cwt single superphosphate
per acre. Trials are underway, which include higher levels of nitrogen and
phosphate application and soil analyses of developed swamps are now being
undertaken for further guidance on fertilizer requirements. It is anticipated
that in swamps with farmers of a sound management rating, higher fertilizer
levels will be possible in future.
11.       Sprays.  Insect damage is not of economic importance at the moment,
but is expected to increase following general intensification of rice pro-
duction. Blanket spraying would not be appropriate at this stage particu-
larly in view of the general problems of sprayer maintenance and regulation
of application rates. The project proposes to provide a spraying service
to cope with localized outbreaks of stemborer, and calculations have been
based on the assumption that a maximum of 25% of the crop would need to be
sprayed in any 10-day period. Trials are being carried out on chemical weed
control, but the technique has been insufficiently evaluated to enable
recommendations to be made at this stage. A breakdown of spraying costs
is given in Annex 4, Table 8.
12.       Benefits.  Although high yields are possible, and have been achieved,
on developed swamps, a considerable yield variation must be expected. This
will result from differing managerial expertise (which will likewise influence
recommended application rates) and to problems resulting from farmers giving
priority to their upland rice fields (this is discussed further below). In-
sufficient information is available to permit categorizing of farmers,
however, and a composite average is used. With an average application rate of
35 lbs N and 33 lbs P205 (1.5 bags each of SA and SSP) average swamp yields
are expected to be 2,500 lbs husk rice per acre. A one acre budget for
swamp rice is given in Table 2, and one acre development cash flows for
category A and B swamps are given in Table 3a and 3b.
Rotational Crops
13.       It is estimated that double cropping will be possible and practiced
on 5% of total swamp area. The project is investigating the possibility of
dry season crop production in the swamps, and the following trials program
is planned for 1974 and 1975.



Volume 3
Annex 3
Page 4
(a) On swamp areas where water is available throughout the year
(i) Rice (Variety BD2) followed by bird-eye beans
(ii) Rice (Variety BD2) followed by maize
(iii) Rice (Variety BD2) followed by bird-eye beans followed
by rice (Variety IR20)
(b) On swamp areas with water available until about February
(i) Rice (Variety BD2) followed by groundnuts
(ii) Rice (Variety BD2) followed by maize
(c) On swamps which dry out by December
Rice (Variety BD2) followed by vegetables
Crop inputs for any resulting cropping recommendations would be available
from existing crop input finance.
B. Upland Development
14.       Background.  Thus far, the project has been involved in upland
development only in connection with oil palm and cocoa production. However,
it has become apparent that swamp development cannot be viewed in isolation
from the upland farm.
15.       For most farmers, the upland rice farm is the most important unit
in the farming system, with deep-rooted social implications in the pattern
of family life. It represents tradition, security and a proven source of
income, and against this the swampland takes second place. This has impor-
tant implications on the degree of crop technology that can be applied to
the swamplands and which can only be fully understood by consideration of
the farm system as a whole. In addition no effective rice program aimed
at meeting domestic demand can afford to neglect the overwhelmingly large
proportion of cultivated land devoted to upland rice production. Although
the problems of developing this important area are largely unresolved,
marginal improvements in productivity per acre could have a significant
impact on overall national production.
16.       Rice Development.  The project is investigating the possibility
of introducing improved varieties (such as LAC 23 and TX 52101) and will
evaluate variety performance on the bases of yield and acceptability for
consumption. During the 1975 cropping season it is intended to issue foun-
dation seed to registered outgrowers for bulking up prior to an upland mass



Volume 3
Annex 3
Page 5
saturation program to be launched in cropping season 1976. Sufficient seed
would also be produced to service the Northern Area Project for cropping
seasons 1976 through 1978. Complete seed replacement would be carried out
every fifth year, and it is expected that the combined efforts of. improved
seed and seed dressing would increase upland yields by 150 lbs of husk
rice per acre. A one acre budget is given in Table 4.
17.       Cocoa Development. The project has established 7 cocoa nurseries,
and a planting program of 750 acres will be completed in 1975. Despite
substantial price increases for most crop inputs, the project has managed
to maintain the level of development loans estimated at Phase I appraisal,
this being primarily due to a lower hired labor component than originally
envisaged. Revised development cost estimates and development cash flows
are given in Tables 5 and 6.
18.       Planting material is currently obtained from a small clonal garden
(about 1/2 acre) planted to F2 Amazon x Amalonado hybrids brought in from
Ghana. While expansion of total cocoa acreage in the Eastern Area will be
limited by lack of suitable soil, there is considerable scope for replanting
and in anticipation of this, cost estimates are included for establishing a
new clonal seed garden during the interim project (see Annex 4, Table 7).
19.       Oil Palm Development. A total of 1,750 acres of outgrower oil palm
is being planted under phase I of the project, from seedlings produced at the
Daru Estate, under IRHO supervision. There is considerable demand from farmers
for improved seedlings, and following construction of the Daru Palm Oil Mill,
outgrower acreage will need to be expanded to a level representing around 80%
of mill throughput. Price increases of farm inputs will require an increase
in crop development loans per acre though these are not excessive due to a
lower hired labor component than originally envisaged. Revised per acre
development costs are given in Table 7.
20.       Within the project area there are about 775 acres of improved
outgrowers oil palm planted under Government-assisted scheme from 1968
through 1972. Planting material and crop inputs were provided, and a devel-
opment grant paid to cover hired labor costs. Many growers, however, neither
received satisfactory supervision nor the entire cash and kind inputs, but
while the planted area is generally poorly maintained, it represents a
valuable asset and potentially valuable source of throughput for the Daru
Oil Mill.
21.       The project therefore intends to include this area in its general
supervision and crop establishment program, and to pay or supply all out-
standing development inputs. Thereafter, the growers would be incorporated
into the general outgrower development credit fund which would be replenished
by applying a standard cost on each ton of ffb delivered to the mill. Average
development costs for old and new outgrowers are given in Table 8, and by



Volume 3
Annex 3
Page 6
applying a cess of Le 11 .50/ton ffb, this average development cost could be
amortized over 9 years at 8 0/0 interest, with an initial 4 year (up to fruit
production) grace period for interest and principal.  Estimated outgrower
cash flows are given in Table 9 and are based on a factory price of Le 25.00/
ton, a price that could be raised by as much as Le 5/ton, a farmgate price
of Le 21.00/ton (Le 4.00 for fruit collection) leaving a net farmgate price
(after deduction of the development cess) of Le 9.50/ton (possible Le 14.5/ton
if factory can pay a higher price).
C. Resource Evaluation
22.       Physical information on the Eastern area is extremely limited, and
it is not possible to accurately estimate its crop development potential.
Development projections for the interim project are conservative and are
essentially aimed at maintaining the same rate of crop coverage as that
scheduled for the final year of Phase I, thereby allowing the project a
period of consolidation in which group formation and farm input supply
services can be streamlined to the extent that substantial future develop-
ment effort become administratively possible. In addition, a detailed
mapping and resource evaluation exercise will be undertaken to permit
accurate investment planning for the future.
23.       A further important objective of the interim project will be to
extend development into 16 traditional upland farming areas, by extending
simple conservation and land use principals from the inland swamp to the
entire swamp catchment area. In addition, upland rice production will be
increased by mass saturation of improved seed on a similar basis to that
proposed for the NAP.
24.       The proposed interim cropping program and production projections
are given in Table 10 through 13.



Volume 3
Annex 3
Table 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEIDPMENET PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Swamp Development Costs
(mandays and Leones/acre)
Year 1       Year 2            Total
Swamp Categorj  /                          A        B     A      B        A       B
Labor
Felling, clearing, stumping   Mandays    5        30           30        5      60
Underbrushing                  Mandays    5       10                     5      10
Excavating main channels       Mandays   25       25      10   10       35      35
Excavating side channels       Mandays   15       15       5    5       20      20
Levelling and bunding          Mandays   20       20       5    5       25      25
Total               Mandays   70      100       20   50      90     150
Less farmers own labor         Mandays   25       25      20   25       45      50
Hired labor                    Mandays   45       75      -    25       45     100
@ Rate 85¢/day                 Leones    38.25   63-75   -    2L125   38025   8500
Material
Tools                          Leones     60oo   7.00   -    -           6.00    7,00
Total Development Cost                   44.25   70.75   -    2125   44o25   92.00
Development Loan                   I5.00   70.00   -    -        45.00   70.00
/ A = previously cleared. B = uncleared.
July 26, 1974



Volume 3
Annex 'A
Table 2
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRIGULTURAL DEVEIDPNENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
One Acre Farm Budget i/
Inland Swamp Rice
Unit           Undeveloped    DeveloPed    Increment
Output
Yield of husk rice         lbs/acre         1,300          2,500        1,200
Gross return @ Le 5/bushel Le                 108            208           100
Input
Labor:
Canal maintenance        Mandays            -                4             4
Land preparation         Mandays             25             27             2
Nursery/transplanting    Mandays             15             17             2
Weeding/fencing          Mandays             12             13             1
Harvesting/transport    I4andays             13             22            9
Threshing                Mandays              9             16             7
Total Labor                          74             99           25
Crop Inputs:
Seed  /                  Le                   5              6.o           1.0
Fertilizer  / N          Le                 -               13.90         13.90
P20     Le                 -               15.75        15.75
Interest on Credit (10%) Le                 -                3.25          3.25
Spraying _               Le a                                 .60           .60
Miscellaneous  /         Le                   1              2             1
Total            Le                   6             4150         35.50
Net Return                 Le                 102            166.50         64.5o
Net Return/Mandays         Le                   1.38           1.68          2.58
Irnestment incentive  /   Factor                                             1.82
Income incentive I/        Factor                                            1.63
Excludes swamp development costs.
/ Dressed seed @ Le 3/bushel issued every fifth year.
/ Based on 1½ bags SA plus 1½ bags SSP at unsubsidized rate.
See Annex 5, Table 8.
/ Tool replacement and replacement of soft bags on drainage canals.
Incremental inerease in net return as a multiple of incremental increase
in cash input.
/ Net return after development as a multiple of net return before development.
July 31, 197h



SIiRRA LEONE
INTSUHATEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJMCT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Swamp Rice - One Acre Development Cash Flow
(Category A Swamp)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Years 7-20
Yield husk rice                    lbs         2,500     2,500     2,500      2,500     2,500      2,500       2,500
Source of Funds
Value of husk rice @ Le 5/bushel  Le             208       208        208       208        208       208         208
Development loan                   Le             45
Seasonal loan                      Le             32.30     32.30     32.30      32.30      32.30     32.30       32.30
Total                    Le           285.30    240.30    240.30    240.-io   240.30    240.30        24D.30
Application of Funds
Development costs                  Le             44025
Seasonal inputs                    Le             38.25     38.25      38.25     38.25      38.25     38.25       38.25
Debt service
Development 1/                   Le                       11.25     11.25      11.25      11.25     11.25
Seasonal  /                      Le             35.55     35.55      35.55     35.55      35.55     35.55       35.55
Total                    Le           U18.05      85.05     85.05      85.05      85.05     85.o5       73.80
Net return 3/                      Le            167.25    155.25    155.25    155.25    155.25    155.25        166.50
Family labor                       Mandays       124       119         99        99         99        99          99
Net return/manday                  Le              1.35      1.30       1.57      1.57       1.57      1.5i        1.68
Incremental cash flow 4/                          65.25     53.25      53.25     53.25      53.25     53.25       (4.50
1/ Repaid over 5 years at 3e
/ Repaid at 10%.
3/ Net return includes value of home consumed rice. This could originate from swamp or uplands and cannot be
translated into financial terms on a per swamp acre basis.                                                                ai
4s/ Net return minus return before development (see Table 3)0                                                                C
July 31,1974



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Swamp Rice - One Acre Development Cash Flow
(Category B Swamp)
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6         Years 7-20
Yield husk rice                    lbs         2,500     2,500      2,500     2,500      2,500     2,500         2,500
Source of Funds
Value of husk rice @ Le 5/bushel  Le             208       208        208       208        208       208           208
Development loan                   Le             70
Seasonal loan                      Le             32.30     32.30      32.30     32.30      32.30     32.30         32.30
Total                    Le           310.30    240.30    240.30    240.30    240.30    240.30           240.30
Application of Funds
Development costs                  Le             70.75     21.25
Seasonal inputs                    Le             38.25     38.25      38.25     38.25      38.25     38.25         38.25
Debt service
Development  /                   Le                       17.50     17.50      17.50     17.50      17.50
Seasonal  /                      Le             35,55     35.55      35;55     35.55     35.55      35.55         35.55
/
Total                    Le           1h4.55    112.55      91.30      91.30     91.30      91.30         7380
Net return 2/                      Le            165.75    127;75    149.00    149.00    ).9.0o    149.00 o66.50
Family Iabor                       Mandays       124       124         99        99         99        99            99
Net retuirn/manday                 Le              1.34      1.03       1.51      1.51       1.51      1.51        p1.68
Incremental cash flow  1                          63.75     25.75      L7 00 )7.00          0,00 0/00               6h.qo
/ Repaid over 5 years at 8%
g/ Repaid at 10%.
2 Net return includes value of home consumed rice. This could originate from swamp or uplands and cannot be
translated into financial terms on a per swamp acre basis.
W Net return minus return before development (see Table 3a).
July 31, 1974                                                                                                               &  Il



Volume 3
Annex e
Table 4
SIERRA, LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
One Acre Farm Budget 1/
Upland Rice - Shifting Cultivation
Unit          Undeveloped     Developed      Increment
Output                                                 4.
Yield of husk rice            lbs/acre         500             650           150
Gross Return @ Le 5/bushel    Le                4i.7o           54.20         12650
Input
Labor:
Brushing, clearing, burning Mandays          1               14            -
Planting                    Mandays            7               7            -
Weeding/fencing             Mandays           17              17             -
Harvesting/transport        Mandays            5               7            2
Threshing                   Mandays            3               4            1
Total               Mandays           46              49            3
Crop Inputs:
Seed  /                     Le                 2.5             300          065
Miscellaneous               Ee                 1               1             -
Total               Le                 3.5             400          0.5
Net Return                    Le                38.20           50.20        120C0
Net Return per Manday         Le                 0.85.           1.02           01
Investment Incentive _/       Factor                                          24.0
income Incentive V            Factor                                          1 31
t Exclude revenue from timber and crop mixtures,
/ Dressed exchange seed issued to outgrowers for bulking and dispersal.
/ Incremental increase in net return as a multiple of incremental increase
in cash input.
_V Net retu-rn after development as a multiple of net return before development.



SIEPRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Cocoa Planting
(per acre annual costs)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Years 8-20
Labor
Land preparation                Mandays    39           2        _          _        -           -          -          -
Planting                        Mandays    16          3         -          -        _           _         _           _
Weeding                         Mandays    24          24        24         16        6          -          -          -
Spraying                        Mandays      1         1          1          5        8          10        12          14
Harvesting                      Mandays                                      6        9          15         21         21
Total                            80         30        25         27        23         25      ' 33           35
Less family labor               Mandays    40         15         12        15        11          13        17          18
Hired labor                     Mandays    40         15         13         12       12          12        16          17
@ 850/manday                    Le          34        13         11         10       10          10         14         14
Materials
Seedlings @ 10¢ each            Le          50          8        -          -        -           -          -          -
Spraying service 1/             Le           4.10       4.10      4.10       8.50    10.70       15.10      19-50      19.50
Tools                           Le           2.00      -         -          -        -           -          -          _
Total                            56.10      12.10      4.10       8.50    10.70       15.10      19.50       19-50
Total Cost                       90.10      25.10     15.10      18.50    20.70       25.10      33.50       33.50
Development loan                            90         25        15         18.50
Seasonal loan                              180        50         30         37       20.70       25.10      33.50      33.50
1/ See Annex 4 , Table 9.
July 29, 19714
Ja(,.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED APrldJUIXRAL DEVEL0RNT  iROJECT II
Eastern Area Project
Cocoa - One Acre Development Cash Flow
Year I     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5     Year 6      Year 7      Year 8      Year 9      Year 10      Year 11      Year 12      Year 13
Yield of cocoa                   lbs          _           _          _         200         300         400        700         700         700         700          700          700          700
Source of Funds
Value of cocoa 1/                Le           -           -           -         50.0        75.0       100.0      175.0       175.0       175.0       175.0        175.0        175.0        175.0
Development loan                 Le           90          25         15         18.5          -           -           -           -          -           -             -           -             -
Seasonal loan                    Le           -           -          -            -         20.7        25.1       33.5        33.5        33.5        33.5         33.5         33.5         33.5
Total                     Le           90          25          15         68.5       95.7       125.1       208.5       208.5       208.5      208.5         208.5        208.5        208.5
Application of Funds
Development costs                Le           90.10       25.10      15.10      18.50       20.70       25.10       33.50      33.50       33.50       33.50        33.50        33.50        33.50
Debt Services:
Development 2/                Le           -          -           -            -         32.54       32.54      32.54       32.54       32.54       32.54        32.54        32.54        32.54
Seasonal 3/                   Le           -          -           -            -         22.77       27.61      36.85       36.85       36.85       36.85        36.85        36.85        36.85
Total                     Le           90.10       25.10       15.10      18.50      76.01       82.25      102.89      102.89      102.89      102.89       102.89       102.89       102.89
Net Cash Flow                    Le            (.10)       (.10)       (.10)    50.0        19.69       39.85     1'05.61     105.61      105.61      105.61       105.61       105.61       105.61
Family labor                     Mandays      40          15         12         11          11          13          17         18          18          18           18           18           18
Return/manday                    Le           -           -          -           4.5         1.79        3.06       6.21        5.87        5.87        5.87         5.87         5.87         5.87
1/ At 25 cents per lb - represents 62% of export value (see Vol. 1, Annex 2, Table 20).
2/  Total loan including capitalisedinterest Le 187 repayable from year 5 to 12.
3/ Repaid at 10%.
2
'uly 29, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                               C



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICUIXURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Oil Palm Outprowers
(per acre annual costs)
Unit           Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7     Year 8      Year 9      Year 10
Labor
Brushing                   mandays           3.00         -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -            -
Felling                    manidays          6.oo         -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -            -
Logging and stacking       mandays           7.00         -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -            -
Burning                    mandays            .50                                -           -          -           -                 -                  -
Clearing and lining        mandays           6.00         -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -            -
Cover crop                 mandays           2.00         -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -            -
Field planting             mandays           5.00         -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -            -
Maintenance                mandays          10.00        9.00        8.00       8.00        8.00       8.oo        8.00        8.00        8.00         8.00
Harvestiag                 mandays            -           -          -           -          4.00       5.00        6.00        6.50        7.00         7.00
Total Labor      mandays          39.50       9.00        8.00        8.oo      12.00       13.00       14.00       14.50      15.00        15.00
Hired labor 1/             mandays          20.00         -                      -          2.00        2.50       3.00        3.25        3.50         3,50
@ 85c per maiFday          Leones           17.00         -           -                     1.70        2.10        2.60       2,80        3.00         3.00
Materials
Seedlings                  Leones           63.00        3.15        --                                                                     -            -
Covercrop                  Leones            4.50                    -           -           -          -                       -
Wire-netting               Leones            8.00               -          -           -                      -           -                 -
Fertilizers 2/             Leones            5.15       10.30       16.65      19.70        6.00        6.00       6.00        6.00        6.00         6.00
Spray                      Leones            3.50        3.50        3.50       3.50                    -           -           -           -            -
Tools                      Leones            2.50        1.25        1.25       1.25         .75         .75         .75        .75         .75          .75
Total            Leones           86.65      18.20       21.40       24.45       6.75        6.75        6.75        6.75       6.75         6.75
Total Cost                 Leones          103.65       18.20       21.40      24.45        8.45        8.85        9.35       9.55        9.75         9.75
Development Loan                           104         18          21          25           -           -           .           .           -           -
1/ 50% of establishment labor, and 507. of harvesting labor from year 5 onwards.
2/ Application rates will be determined by foliar analysis.  Composite assumptions include: application of nitrogen, phosphates, potash and
magnesiumn  After year 5 it is assumed that 507% of growers will continue with potash application.
July 30, 1974



Volume 3
Annex 3
Table 8
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Oil Palm Outgrowers
Development Loans
Deelopmenat Loan per acre (Le)
rear 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Total
Old Outgrowers
1968 plantings (55 acres)     -         -         -             5       5
1969 plantings (120 acres)         -              -            5        5
1970 plantings (115 acres)    -         -         5            15      20
1971 plantings (250 acres)    -          5        5            15      25
1972 plantings (235 acres)     10        5       14           15       44
Now Ogrwers
1973 plantingsi (355 acres)    831/    11         9            10     113
1974 plantings (600 acres)     831/    11         9            10     113
1975 plantings (800 acres)    100       11        9            10     130
1976 plantings (800 acres)    100       11        9           10      130
1977 plantings (800 acres)    100       11        9           10      130
1/ Actually issued.
Average development loan - Le 168 + capitalised interest at 8 0/0 over
four years - 43 - Le 211.
- for average farmer, applying a four year grace period for capital
and interest with repayment of principal and interest over following
nine years at 8 0/0 annum, would equate to a standard deduction of
Le 11.5 per ton of ffb sold at the Palm Oil Mill.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEORATED ARIaILT!RAL DEVLOPEMN  PROJECT II
Eastern Area Pro1ect
Oil Palm Outgrowers - One Acre Development Cost Flow
Year I          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5          Year 6          Year 7          Year 8           Year 9          Year 10
Yield of ffb                       tons                -               -               -               -               1.5             2.0             2.5             3.0              3.5             3.5
1. At Unsubsidized Level
Source of Funds
Value of ffb                Le                  -               -               -               -              31.50           42.00           52.50           63.00            73.50           73.50
Development loan            Le                  104             18              21              25               -               -               -                -               -               -
Total                 Le                  104             18              21              25             31.50           42.00           52.50           63.00            73.50           73.50
Application of Funds
Production costs            Le                  103.65          18.20           21.40           24.45           8.45            8.85            9.35            9.55             9.75            9.75
Debt service l/             Le                  -               -               -               -              17.25           23.00           28.75           34.50            40.25           40.25
Total                 Le                  103.65          18.20           21.40           24.45          25.70           31.85           38.10            44.05           50.00           50.00
Net Cash Flow                      Le                  -               -               -               -               5.80           10.15           14.40           18.95            23.50           23.50
Family labor                       Mandays              19.50           9.00            8.00            8.00          10.00           10.50           11.00           11.25            11.50           11.50
Net return/manday                  Le                  -               -               -               -               0.58            0.97            1.30            1.68             2.04            2.04
1/  See Table 8.
J    2o
.July 29, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                                          .JA



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Cropping Program
(acres)
Pre-Project      -----Phase I       -------    --Project - -
1968 - 1972     Year -3 Year a Year -1  Year 1  Year 2  Year 3    Total
1.  Inland swamp rice  /                            475   2525   3,000   3,000   3,000         -       12,000
20  Upland rice                                       -      -       250  11,750  12,000   12,000    36,000
3.  Cocoa                                           160      330     260      500     500      -        1,750
h. Oil palm outgrowers                  775         355      600     800    *800      800               4 ,130
5. Oil palm estate                   1,492          305      203     -        -       -                  2,000
5X double cropping from 1976 onwards.
2 Planted as follows:
1968  -   55
196Y'  -  120
1970  -  115
1971  -  250
1972  -  235
July 30, 197q
CDW



Volume 3
SIERRA LEONE                                              Anne  P
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PEOJECT
Husk Rice Production Pro.iection
----Phase I----                     --Project---
Before     Year -3    Year -2    Year -1    Year 1         Year 2      Year 3 onwards
Undeveloped Area
Inland swamp 1/                         6,600       6,125       3,600       1,800         900         -              -
Uplands                                36,000      36,000      36,000      35,750      24,000     12,000             _
- ------------- ---- ---- --- --- Acres---------------------
Developed Area
Inland swamp 1/
Previously cultivated                   -           475       3,000       4,800      5,700       6,600          6,600
Previously uncultivated                 -           -           -         1,200       3,300      5,1400         5,400
Uplands                                    _          _           _           250      12,000      24,000         36,000
----------------------------------lbs/acre-…----- -   ------------------ ---
Yields
Inland swamp 2/                         1,300       2,500       2,500       2,500       2,625      2,625          2,625
Uplands                                   500         650         650         650         650         650            650
-- ------o- ---- tans …--- - ----- ----
Production
Inland swamp                              3.83       4.09        5.44        7,74       11.07       14.06          14.06
Uplands                                  8,04        8.04        8.04        8.05        8.84        9.64          10.45
Total Production                        11.87       12.13       13.48       15.79       19.91       23.70          24.51
Incremental Production 3/                  -           .26       1.61        3.92        8.04       11.83          12.64
I/ It is assumed that of the total area of inland swamps developed by the project, the proportion alreadr under
cultivation will be as follows:
Years -3 and -2   100%
Year  -1             60%
Years  1 and 2       30%
2/ 5% double cropping from year 4 onwards.
3/ The 1965/66 and 1970/71 Agricultural Statistical Surveys suggest that cultivated swamp area is increasing at an
annual rate of about 9%. As a percentage of the total previously cultivated swamp area developed (6,600 acres) this
would amount to about 600 acres per annun. In evaluating the project benefits it is assumed that the previously
uncultivated swamp area developed (5,400 acres) would have come under cultivation at this annual rate from project
year 7 onwards.  Increnental production from year 7 is therefore reduced by 348 tons (600  x 1,300 lbs per acre)
for 9 years.
July 30, 19714



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Cocoa Production Projiection
-   Phase I-----   -Project-  -----            Post Project Development -      …--------
Yep.r-3 Year-2 Year-1  Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9
Area Planted                acres       160    330    260    500    500    -         -      -  _   _ _
Area in Procuction 1/
Crop Year 4               acres       -        -     -      160    330    260    500    500    -  _
Crop Year 5               acres       -        -     -       -      160    330    260    500    500    -        -       _
Crop Year 6               acres       -        -     -              -      160    330    260    500    500    -         -
Crop Year 7+              acres       -        -     -      -       -      -       160    490    75o  1,25o  1,75o  1,750
Total Production          tons        -        -     -        14     51    103    203    323    413    502    547    547
/ Production commences in crop year 4 increasing as follows:
Crop Year 4            200 lbs per acre
Crop Year 5            300 lbs per acre
Crop Year 6            500 lbs per acre
Crop Year 7 onwards   700 lbs per acre
July 26, 1974
H
CD,w



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DETVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Oil Palm Outgrowers Production Projection
Pre          -------PHASE I--------       --PROJECT-           -------------------POST PROJECT DEVELOPMENT---------------------
Proiect    Year-3   Year-2   Year-i   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10
Area Planted               acres               775 1/       355       600       800       800       800      -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Area in Production 2/
Crop Year 5              acres                            120       115       250       235      355       600       800       800       800       -        -         -         -
Crop Year 6              acres                             55       120       115       250       235      355       600       800       800       800      -         -         -
Crop Year 7              acres                            -          55       120       115       250      235       355       600       800       800       800      -         -
Crop Year 8              acres                            -         -          55       120       115      250       235       355       600       800       800       800      -
Crop Year 9              acres                            -         -        -           55       175      290       540       775    1,130    1,730    2,530    3,330    4,130
Total Production           tons ffb                         290       550    1,045    1,695    2,585    3,965    5,885    8,080   10,555   12,055   13,255   14,055   14,455
Total Production           tons oil                           50       95       185       305       485      745    1,115    1,545    2,055    2,445    2,790    3,045    3,180
tons kernels                      12        25        50        80      120       185       275       385       510       595       665       705      725
1/ Planted as follows: 1968 - 55 acres, 1969 - 120 acres, 1970 - 115 acres, 1971 - 250 acres, 1972 - 235 acres.
2/ Production commences in crop year 5, increasing as follows:
Crop Year      ffb per acre      Oil Extraction Ratio       Kernels/ffb ratio
5            1.5 tons                 16%                       4%
6            2.0 tons                 17%                       4.5%
7            2.5 tons                 18%                       5%
8            3.0 tons                 20%                       5%                                                                                                         c i
9-25         3.5 tons                 22%                       5%
July 30, 1974



Volume 3
Annex 4
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Marketing and Farm Inputs
A.   Rice Marketing
B.  Oil Palm Marketing
C.   Cocoa Marketing
D.   Input Supplies
E.   Seed Multiplication
F.   Spraying Service
Table 1        Basic Cost Assumption for Farm Inputs
Table 2        Seed Requirements
Table 3        Fertilizer Requirements
Table 4        Hired Labor and Hand Tools
Table 5        Seed Multiplication Program
Table 6        Seed Multiplication Unit
Capital and Recurrent Costs
Table 7        Cocoa Seed Garden
Establishment Costs
Table 8        Swamp Rice Spraying Costs
Table 9        Cocoa Spraying Costs
Table 10       Oil Palm Outgrower Spraying Costs
Table 11       Summary of Sprayer and Spray Requirements
Appendix 1. Company Formation
Appendix 2   Oil Palm Producer FFB Purchase Price Formula






Volume 3
Annex 4
Page 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Marketing and Farm Inputs
A. Rice Marketing
1.        The Eastern Region of Sierra Leone is a deficiency area for rice and
marketed production from the ongoing EAP finds a ready market in Kenema and
other towns; there is a particularly strong and constant demand from the-re-
maining areas. The Rice Corporation maintains four depots within EAP 1/
which are primarily occupied with distribution and sale of imported milled
rice. A census of rice mills is now being carried out by PMU, but it is
believed that there are more than 30 in the project area including six
fitted with rubber roller shellers. Evaluation of small mill performance is
under way by PMU but no mill has yet been financed under the provisions of
Credit 323-SL.
2.        The greater part of Sierra Leone cocoa and coffee is produced in
the eastern region and some 37 Licensed Buying Agents (LBA) operate in the
project area on behalf of SLPMB (see Volume 1, Annex 2, Table 8).
3.        Transportation difficulties appear to exert strong constraints on
all produce marketing in the area and the low onfarm value accorded to rice
used to repay traditional credit reflects the importance of this problem.
4.        The project would establish twelve "market areas" each administered
from a market centre where storage and offices would be erected. A statutory
marketing team would operate in the centres, at which guaranteed prices would
be offered for gazetted produce. Provided that assembled volume of produce
warranted or LBA performance was found to be inadequate, these teams would
also buy at selected points within the market area.
5.        The extent of the EAP as well as the volume and diversity of pro-
duce marketed, renders Market Center siting critical to marketing efficiency
and producer well being. For this reason no precise locations have yet been
selected, but a pilot Market Area has been established in Kamara, Kenema
1/ At Kenema, Pendembu, Pujehnn and Gbundapi.



Volume 3
Annex 4
Page 2
District. Under the ongoing EAP, marketing and input supply operations are
being carefully monitored in order to provide information regarding operating
economics so that essential parameters may be stipulated for the location of
other Market Centers. 1/ For administrative reasons, Market Area boundaries
will follow those of chiefdoms.
B. Oil Palm Marketing
6.        The production of the oil palm outgrowers and Daru Estate
would be processed by the Daru Oil Palm Company Limited, in the mill now
being erected under Credit 323-SL.
7.        The pricing policy would be established by the Directors of the
company within overall national agricultural pricing policy which would
embody the following principles;
(i) the freedom of the company to sell in Sierra Leone
palm oil produced in its own mill in such volume,
units and at such prices, as operating economics
and local market conditions permitted;
(ii) in the event of oversupply causing local prices to
fall below world levels, SLPMB would purchase sur-
plus oil in direct parity with export prices.
8.        Market conditions and mill throughput requirement would demand con-
siderable flexibility in pricing oil, and consequently ffb, but producer prices
would be maintained for periods of not less than a month. Prices for each
period would be announced not later than completion of final ffb collection
round in the preceding period.
9.        The price paid would be determined from revenue received for mill
products (i.e. oil and kernels) less collection, processing administration
and financial charges; the latter would include allowance for creation of a
price maintenance reserve as well as for interest payments, taxation, etc.,
and provision for reasonable profits relative to investment and turnover.
Allowance would also be made for grower credit payments (see para 8). In
converting the resultant net product value to a price per ton of ffb, an
average extraction rate would be applied. In early years this would result
1/   The pilot area contains 29 presently developed swamps ranging from 3 to
84 developed acres in extent. Average road mileage from Market Center
to swamp is 39 miles. This is comparable to an area successfully admin-
istered by a Credit Assistant during year 1 of the ongoing EAP.



Volume 3
Annex 4
Page 3
in owners of the more mature trees receiving less than their theoretical
share, however this would balance out over the long term, while considerable
direct and indirect benefits flow from operational simplicity when marketing
smallholder production (for details see Appendix 1, page 10).
10.       FFB would be bought at a uniform price, 'grading' being initially
confined to an accept or reject basis. The small number of buying staff and
low volume of total purchases would allow a close check to be kept on de-
livered quality.
11.       Sales of oil would be confined to wholesale level, and a policy
developed to encourage regular quantity take-off by traders. In the short
run the mill may have to operate on a notional loss basis on either or both
ffb and oil in order to maintain adequate throughput levels. The main rea-
sons for such situations arising usually relate to lack of market knowledge.
EA PHU and mill management would cooperate to accumulate and develop an in-
telligence system to assist anticipation of market movements. Millgate price
calculations are shown in Volume 1, Annex 2, Table 17.
12.       Development credit has been granted to all existing outgrowers, and
this arrangement would be continued for new growers. Credit terms provide for
a loan bearing interest at 8%, repayable over thirteen years, including a four
year grace period for interest and principal. These terms are largely neces-
sitated by the time period between planting and first bearing; however they
cause recovery costs to be high relative to the amount involved, a situation
that is exacerbated by the wide dispersion of growers in relation to the oil
palm acreage planted. In order to minimize the impact of such recovery costs
on grower income, repayment of all development credit would be achieved by
means of a form of cess levied on all outgrowers. The required cess payment
would be arrived at by amortizing total development credit over the period of
the loan, and expressed as an amount (Le 11.50) per ton of ffb. Announced
producer prices would be after deduction of cess. Details of the calculations
are contained in Volume 1, Annex 2.
13.       Fruit Collection from both outgrowers and the estate would be the
responsibility of mill management since proper scheduling is critical to fac-
tory operation. In addition, outgrower production in the interim phase would
still be small compared with that from the estate (2,600/5,800 tons ffb), but
the total is sufficient and would permit more economic utilization of trans-
port.
14.       The fruit collection system would have to cater for a relatively
large number of small production units situated up to 25 miles from the mill,
with a consequently high proportion of empty running mile per load collected;
consolidation of new plantings around existing acreages within the median
radius would result in considerable savings in collection costs. The some-
what slow build up of production would, however, allow time for the refine-
ment of a collection and marketing accounting system specifically suited to
EAP conditions and so permit ultimate cost savings in the collection process.



Volume 3
Annex 4
Page 4
15.       Although consideration could be given to encouraging smallholders
to deliver direct to the mill, difficulty in determining likely costs in-
volved, and thus the risks of 'losing' production to traditional processors,
combined with the need to establish harvesting and collection disciplines in
order to insure receipt of good quality fruits with low ffa, 1/ mitigates
against such a course. Consequently, a series of collection centers would
be established at strategic points along roads serving the production area.
Growers would have to carry fruit to these points, but this should not in-
volve movement in excess of about half a mile.
16.       Road surfaces within the production area would after improvement
be suitable for year round use and in view of the long distances to be cov-
ered a truck is considered the most suitable type of vehicle for the collec-
tion service. The time element is critical to effective utilization and
mechanized loading equipment (with built in scales) would be fitted to enable
speedy performance of the loading function. Nets would be provided to allow
maximum quantity of fruit to be loaded at one time.
17.       Each truck would be manned by a buying team, consisting of a
supervisor (also the driver) and two laborers, one to assist growers attach
filled nets to the hook of the crane, the other remaining in the lorry to
empty and stow or return the nets and stack the bunches. The weight of
fruit would be recorded on a simple accounting machine 2/ by the supervisor,
this record being counter-signed or marked by the grower after receiving
payment.
18.       Prior to leaving the mill the supervisor would be issued with cash
to the value of expected purchases (i.e. truck capacity x guaranteed price
plus 5% contingency to cover possibility of high proportion of loose fruit),
and a suitable accounting machine. On return the load would be weighed in
and recorded, remaining cash counted and the accounting machine handed in.
There would thus be no delay in truck turnround, and the audit roll could
be reconciled against cash and fruit weight before completion of the sub-
sequent trip. There would thus be a running performance check and account-
ing process which would greatly assist management control. Limited cash
issues would minimize the risk of robbery or defalcation, and mechanical scales
would be checked daily.
1/   Handling of fruit bunches needs to be kept to a minimum if free fatty
acid build up is to be avoided.
2/   Anyone of the type which permit three copies of an entry to be made, the
third copy remaining locked inside an audit record, would be suitable.



Volume 3
Annex 4
Page 5
19.       In 1977 the estimated maximum 1/ monthly movement requirement from
smallholder production would be 325 tons ffb (see Annex 2) equivalent to
say 46 trips with a 7 ton truck or 65 in a 5 tonner. Using an average
round haul of 30 miles it is estimated that 4 trips could be made per 10
hour day or 100 per 25 day month. (i.e. a movement capability of 500 or
700 tons per month, depending on truck size). Maximum monthly production
from the estate is expected to reach 845 tons ffb in 1977. This would require
a daily movement of about 35 tons, with an average round trip of 5 miles.
Total 1977 movement requirements could therefore theoretically be met by one
7 ton vehicle. However, this would leave no margins for breakdown, delays
in fruit assembly, etc. anyone of which could endanger mill production
schedules and/or jeopardize grower confidence. Two high seated 7 ton tipper
trucks each fitted with cranes with built-in scales would be acquired by the Oil
Palm Company in order to ensure reasonable reserve of movement capacity at all
times. Nets for harvested fruit bunches would be small-meshed in order to
prevent loose fruit loss and allow such fruit to be collected and weighed
simultaneously with ffb. During the interim phase, nets would be retained
by smallholders between collection days, the benefits of greater net util-
ization being more than outweighed by costs of continued distribution.
C. Cocoa Marketing
20.       Project production would reach 547 tons at full maturity in 1983
and account for about 5% of expected national output at this time. Sierra
Leone is a minor producing country, providing less than 0.5% of total world
supplies in 1972/73, and cannot expect to influence international price
movements. Farmers would be able to sell their cocoa either through LBA or
to the statutory buying teams, operating from Market Centers, who would pro-
vide adequate control on LBA operations through competition. Economic price
calculation, based on IBRD constant price projections are detailed in Volume 1,
Annex 2, Table 20.
D. Input Supplies
21.       The organization and approach of the Commercial Services Section for
the supply of farm inputs would replicate that in NAP (details of which are
in Volume 2, Annex 4) except in so far as the structure of credit services
are concerned, The individual and group approach, already used in the ongoing
project would be maintained for rice farmers, but the latter because of the
different factors involved would not necessarily apply to those growing tree
crops.
1/ Estimated at 12.5% of mean annual yield.



Volume 3
Annex 4
Page 6
22.       Substantial price increases have affected all farm inputs since the
ongoing project was appraised in 1972. In most cases, however, these price
increases have not altered the book values of development and seasonal credit
issues to farmers due to a heavy subsidy on fertilizers (now up to 80% of
distributed cost) and to adjustments in the composition of each loan issue.
Indirect subsidies have also been applied to other crop inputs (such as
seeds and insecticides) through the project absorbing part of the distribu-
tion costs from point of purchase to point of sale.
23.       While project records of hired labor costs and crop input appli-
cation rates show that a number of physical reductions are possible in the
original appraisal report estimates, in most cases these do not compensate
for overall price increases. Revised development and seasonal loans for
rice, cocoa and oil palm are detailed and discussed in Annex 2.
24.       Basic price assumptions for seeds and fertilizers are detailed in
Table 1, and development and seasonal requirements for seed, fertilizer,
hired labor and hand tools have been projected through to completion of the
interim project in Tables 2 to 4.
25.       Staffing requirements for the commercial services section would be
similar by Market Area to those in NAP but total numbers higher due to the
greater extent of EAP. The present credit services would be maintained and
their cost carried by the project, but the first formal steps would be taken
towards their transition into a farmer owned finance company which would be
self-perpetuating and capable of serving the needs of farmers in the area for
an indefinite period.
E. Seed Multiplication
26.       The project is establishing two 25 acre seed farms, at Sangbwana
and Kenema, which would multiply parent stock originating from Rokupr. Seed
of a high standard would be released from the seed farm for bulking up on
registered swamp farms in the project area, and sufficient seed would be pro-
duced to allow upland and swamp farms to completely replace their seed after
5 years planting. An initial surplus would be available for the Northern
Area Project until its own seed farm is in production.
27.       Variety research work and hence limited bulking from parent stocks
would be carried out at WARRS, Rokupr, and the project would require approx-
imately 60 bushels of improved seed each year for bulking on its own seed
farms. A comprehensive roguing and plant protection program would be under-
taken, with strict supervision of registered growers to ensure that similar
high standards of management are attained. Facilities are to be installed
at 16 Kenema farms for cleaning, dressing, packaging and storing of seed from
both farms and from the registered growers. It is recommended that strong,



Volume 3
Annex 4
Page 7
clear, 1-bushel capacity plastic bags be used for packaging containing printed
labels warning of the dangers of eating treated seed.
28.       The seed farms would buy back seed from registered growers at
Le 5.50 per bushel (50i above prevailing market price) which would provide
the necessary incentive for improved production techniques and roguing.
Bulked dressed seed would then be distributed at Le 8.00 per bushel which
would cover the cost of both seed farms excluding initial expatriate super-
vision. Details of the rice seed multiplication program are given in
Table 5, and the estimated capital and operating costs of the seed multip-
lication unit are given in Table 6.
29.       Supplies of oil palm and cocoa seedlings would continue from the
existing nurseries, but finance is included for establishing a clonal seed
garden for production of hybrid cocoa seed. Garden establishment costs are
given in Table 7, and are based on the assumption that potted cuttings are
air freighted in from Ghana.
F. Spraying Service
30.       All crop spraying in the project is currently undertaken as a pro-
ject service to farmers, and while it is ultimately intended to ussue sprayers
to farmers, the scale of smallholder operations is such that this will not be
possible until farmer groups develop into cohesive managerial units with neces-
sary technical ability to accurately identify insect and fungal attacks.
Spraying costs have therefore been projected on this basis through the invest-
ment period of the interim project. Cost estimates are given in Tables 8
through 11.



SIEHRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Basic Cost Assumptions for Farm Inputs
Calcium                         Single        Muriate
Ammonium    Ammonium            Super-        of         Magnesium    Seed    Groundnut
Nitrate     Sulphate    Urea    Phosphate    Potash      Sulphate      Rice    Seed 2
cif Freetown US$                        218         177        348       200         105          150
cif Freetown Le                         185         150        295       170          90          130
Port handling charge                      5            5         5         5           5            5
Freetown - Makeni area                   16.00        16.00     16.00     16.00        16.00       16.00
Finance and handling (10% cif)           18.50        15.00     29.50     17.00         9.00       13.00
Ex-Store Price - per ton                 224h50      186.00    345.50    208.00      120          164         224      134
- rounded                225         185.,      345       219         120          165
Ex-Store Price                          bagl/        bag 2/    bagl      bag 1/      bag2/        bagi!      bushel   lb
- unsubsidized            11.25        9.25      17.25     10.50        6.00         8.25       6          o06
/ 50 kilograms
July 31, 1974



SIERRA LIEOE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Seed Requirements
Year -3   Year -2  Year -1   Total   Year 1  Year 2   Total
Cocoa Seedlings
Quantity               wooo           80       177.8    156.4    41L.2    270.8    290        560,8
Cover Crop             w000 lbs
Value                   '000 Le         800     17.8     15.6    4l14        27.1     29,0     56.1
Oi.L Palm Seedlings
Quantity               0ooo           22.h      37.8     50.4   110,6       50.4    50.41   100.8
Value                   'OO Le         23.5     3907     52.9    116.1       52.9     52.9    105,8
Oil Palm Cover Crop
Quantity               '000 lhs         201      3.6      4.8    10.5        4.8       4.8      9.6
Value                     9000 Le         i.6      2.7      3.6       7.9       3.6      3.6      7.2
Rice Seed
Swamp Rice             bu            1475   3,000    4,000    7,475      4,000    4,000    8,000
Upland Rice            btr             -        -       125_   125       6.000    6,000   12.000
Total                hil            h75    3,000   14,125    7,600    10,000   10,000   20,000
Value                 '000 Le         3.8     214.0    33.0     60.8       80.0     80.0    160.0
Total Value          w000 Le         36.9     84.2   105.1    226,2       163.6    165,5    329.1
Cash Sales 1/            '000 Le         -        -         3.2      3.2        4,4      4.14     38
Credit Sales               000 Le        36.9     84.2   101 1    222*2      123,2    125.1    248.3
Exchange Sales d/        0ooo Le                  -          .8        .8      36,0     36.0     72.0
1/ 10% of combined cash and credit sales for rice only.
/ 75% of upland rice seed distrLbuted on an exchange basis,,
August 9, 1974F



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Fertilizer Requirements
-------------Phase I------------       -----------------------Project---------------------------
Foreign Exchange Local
Year-3    Year-2   Year-i    Total       Year-i   Year-2   Total         %            Cost  Cost
Develonment Fertilizerl/
Nitrogenous             tons    5          15        50        70         65        70       135
Phosphatic              tons    5          15        50        70         60        65       125
Potassic                tons    5          15        70        90        105        52       157
Total Quantity        tons   15          45       170       230        230       187       417
Total Value           '000 Le 2.6         7.8      28.2      38.6       37.2      32.9      70.1      80           56.1  14.0
Seasor /[           2/
SesnLFerti1ize.r-
Nitrogenous             tons   25         150       450       625        710       945    1,655
Phosphatic              tons   25         150       450       625        710       945    1,655
Potassic                tons   -          -         -         -           -         18        18
Total Quantity        tons   50         300       900    1,250       1,420    1,908    3,328
Total Value           IOOOLe 9.9         59.3    177.8    247.0        280.5    373.0    653.5        80         522.8  130.7
Cash Sales
10% seasonal fertilizer '000 Le -          -        -         -           -         37.3      37.3
Credit Sales
90% seasonal fertilizer '000 Le 9.9        59.3    177.8    247.0         280.5    335.7    616.2                               z 
Development fertilizer  '000 Le 2.6         7.8      28.2      38.6        37.2     32.9      70.1                             Cy
1/ Issued to oil palm outgrowers up to year 4 of crop development.
'/ Issued to rice growers, and oil palm outgrowers after year 4 of crop development.
All estimates based on using sulphate of ammonia, single superphosphate and muriate of potash using lb price
assumptions given in Table 1.
November 22, 1974



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Hired Labor and Hand Tools
---- -Project--
---------Phase 1--- ----                           Total  Foreign Exchange  Local
Year-3 Year-2 Year-l   Tota      Year 1   Year 2 Cost   %              Cost  Cost
Hired Labor
Category A Swanps       tOOO Le       18.2    96.6    68.9  183,7        34.4    34.4   68.8  -              -     68.8
Category B Swamps           "          -        -      76.5   76.5      159o4   170,5  329.9  -              -    329.9
Cocoa Development           "          5.4    13.3    14.9   33Q6        25.6    31.3   56.9  -                    56.9
Oil Palm Outgrowers       6"o    20,81/  14.61/ 41b4                     13,6    14.2   27.8  -              -     27.8
Sutb total         H          29.6   130,7   174.9  335,2       233,0   250,4  483,4  -              -    83.4
Hand Tools
Category A Swamnps                     2.9    15.2    l0.8   28.9         5.4     5.4   10,8  50             5.4    5.4
Category B Swamps"                     -        -       8.4    8.4       14.7    14,7   29.4  50            14.7   14.7
Cocoa Development                      0.3      0.7     0,5    1.5       1l0      10    2.0  50             1.0    1.0
Oil Paln Outgrowers  /    "            3.7      6.7     9,8   20,2       10,8    11,7   22.5  50            11.2   11,3
Sub total                      6,9    22,6    29.5   59.0        31.9    32,8   64.7  -             32.3   32.4
Total Labor and Tools                   36.5   153,3   204.4  276.2       261)49   283.2  548.1   6           32.3  515.8
Cash Payment 2/                           -       -                        25,5 5   465   72.0   6              40o  68.o
Credit Payments              "           36,5   153,3   204.4  39)4.2     239.4   236,7  476.1   6            28,6  447.5
1/ Includes payments to outgrowers established prior to the project,
2/ Includes wire netting for protecting seedlings,
3/ Cash payed n.ade by growers in Category B swamps (2nd development year) and by cocoa and oil palm                     S   0
outgrowers on completion of development loan period.
Septerilber )], 197(1



Volume 3
SIERRA LEONE                                       4nnex
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTEBN AREA PROJECT
Seed Multiplication Pragram
-Phase I                 -Project-  -Post Project
Year-3 Year-2  Tear-1   Year 1  Year 2         Y     Year 4  Yer
Seed Requirement
1. Cumulative developed area 2
Swamp rice                      ac        475    3,000    6,000    9,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000
Upland rice                     ac        -        -        250   12,000   24,000   36,000   36,000   36,000
2. Seed Requirements 2/
Swamp rice                     bu         475    3,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000
Upland rice                    bu         -        -        125    6,0oo    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,ooo
Total                     bu         475    3,000    4,125   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000
Seed Production
1. Foundation seed 3/
For seed farms                  bu        -         60        60       60       60       60        60       60
For outgrowers                  bu        -        250       700      -        -        -         -        -
For project farmers            bu         -      2,750      -         -        -        -         -        -
Project Seed Farms
Production:4/
Acreage                       ac        -         50        50       50       50       50        50       50
Gross proauction             bu         -      2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500
Net production                bu        -      1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800
Distribution:
Reserve stock                bu         -        -         900      900      900       900      900      900
To outgrowers                 bu        -        -        900       900      900      900       900      900
Balance of Project Seed Requirement bu         -        -       3,225    9,100    9,100    9,100    9,100    9,100
3. Registered outgrowers 2
Production:
Number                        No.       -        -         300      300      300      300       300      300
Acreage                       ac        -        250      900       900      900      900       900      900
Net Production               bu         -      3,750   13,500   13,500   13,500   13,500   13,500   13,500
Distribution:
To project farmers           bu         -        -      3,225    9,100    9,100    9,100    9,100    9,100
Surplus (Deficit)             bu        -        -        525    4,400    4,400    4,400    4,400    4,s400
2 See Annex 2, Table 10.
2/ Swamp rice @ 1 bushel per acre.  Upland rice § .5 bushel per acre.
3/ Year-3 - issued direct to registered outgrowers and project farmers.
Year-2 -   improved upland varieties imported from Liberia.
Thereafter - for seed farm only and comprising combination of swamp and upland varieties.
W Net production accounts for estimated 25% loss due to cleaning, selection and' 3% in transport. Reserve stock maintained
of 100% outgrowers requirement. Available as emergency stock or for issue/sale elsewhere in country.
5/ Outgrowers average 3 acres each with an estimated surplus and useable production of 15 bushels per acre.
Surplus seed available for Northern Area Project in 1975, 1976 and 1977.
July 30, 1974



a   - , 0  -oa'a                                          Ea'0
Ta            a                                C                  .               a     0
coo                                     0                  -  a        I     0Oc-a 000000,000.0-00.  0  0  0
aoaaoooa.,aoaa.a,ao 000000  10 0  10
ooo.                                                     a  a     a        do   a-a  o  Ooaoaa-aoaaaoa-ao.o 50
-a a        aaoaaoa   a  a                        a  a-a  a  a  00a    400    10.0.0
0. a     a  a---0.                                       aoa...0.0a.00o.0.0  00
00    a a              2 .                           aaa.aa                taB
0. 0  aOa-      0  a.                             0. aoao.--
004o0                                  00                                          000  00  00  -
00                                             a
00.                                     -                                                       0.0.   0
0  0  0                                 0                                                  00
040       a0.  0001                               0.                        8                       0
2          8
aa.0                             2               -a- nao-
a     a  a                                          2822 ;a             22         .0oaa,o0.  000.00',0            a        lao
8     2                             I-                                                                             2
0..o0.    a        a.                                                                                                        0
a    i.,,cc                      0.ll    a     a j0.   -          ,ajo' 10.      a
ac-a      a                 a             "-alo  To   To. fa               a [a [coo      a
a                 caj            012.0.00      818                2 2  200       8
j       011014             - II
0.0   0-.         -  aO'     i-'  .00.        a    I''        01                          ,    ''
aoIoao               [to         0L   00         ITo 0.00        0'              0-10.010-.      a     a-                    0
      2       ts 822         Ic 282         8               8 12228888828888882                                -
-                                                                                                                            12-     8
coO                                                                                                                                                 0
-LIZ'             L-         .L.               - L            -.                        .   L
olol           lOla  .00    .0 I a  aO'0       .001000         0010.0-4                  0       .0
-a .0 0.0000      .002            01.00.00'    010  000           0.01080         0 OOoaaalO0.00000008             18
0  0 00000        010  I .0         100.0.0    0 10 00-4          0  0 10 .0      0 .0000.0.0.0.0.00-4000
a. 00 18o  a      Oc                              I
a  0. '0a'0l,4c-  0 1.01 000      0  .0 a       -[.0   aa               I,,,                                 -4
0[0,ao..          0'                -00.   0O Faao,oo          a              To I                        0                            U
0 0 I 0.0.000     010.10.00      - IO.000      0 IocOOC           0              0 I                         0
0  ' 100000       0101000         0 I 0000     0 I .0.0.0.00      0              0 I                         0
8  2,oZ,-     8 Loi .0.0      a .0 -      -  O  -0.            l'H''          I''''''''                      I.
0. 0  00000.0     01.01.0.00      a Ic  00.    .0 100.0000
0 0 '0000                             4000     0  02000
o 130008       8181822         8 I2ooo      o  o
5
0-a 0.0  0 0. 0                                -a , I,.,                                  -0
00000       0  0. 0.00    .0 0 0-0        0  .0.000.        0               0                           0
.00-00.0.00.                        F                    -                        .0
0     -                                                           0               0 I
2 0000      -  '0 '000      .0 00.00.    0  0                                 I                        0
8 18 I 82      -4 1888'      ''''             2 V  ''        8 I''''''''''''''''               V         107
-                                                                                                           Is                00.0
'     - fl-c-           0.             0.
H'  K'                                               ii
oo                                                                                                                    0.0.
8,8                               -  - - -                                 2
000      a. 10000      0 Iaoo            a I             0



Volume 3
T-ble 7
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Cocoa - Clonal Seed Garden Establishment Costs
Le '000
Total    Foreign Exchange   Local
Year 1   Year 2   Cost      %            Cost   Cost
Capital Costs
Land Development                  1,000      -     1,000    -              -     1,000
Seed Garden Establishment         1,000    500    1,500    -               -     1,500
Air Freight (3,000 cuttings)      3,000      -     3,000    100          3,000     -
Total Capital             5,000    500    5,500      55         3,000   2,500
Recurrent Costs
Tools and equipment                 200    200       40O    70             280     120
Laborers                            350    350       700    -              -       700
Total Recurrent             550    550    1,100      26           280      820
Total Costs               5,550  1,050    6,600      50         3,280   3,320
August 9, 1974



Volume 3
Apnex 4
TRble 8
SIERA IEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
SwamP Rice Spraying Costs
A. Sprayers
Assume:
1. Peak requirements determined by assuming 25% of
crop sprayed in a 10 day period.
2. Spray rate, 2.5 ac/day0
3. Sprayer cost Le 45.00
Year-3   Year-2   Year-1   Year 1  Year 2
Additional acres           475    2,525    3,000    3,000    3,000
Cumulative acres           475    3,000    6,000    9,000   12,000
Sprayed (25%)              120      750    1,500    2,250    3,000
Acres/day ( 10)             12       75      150       225      300
No. sprayers (- 2.5)         5       30       60        90      120
Sprayer Cost               225    1,125    1,350    1,350    1,350
B. Sprayer Cost per Acre
Capital                 0.15 (100 per sprayer over 3 years)
IMaintenance            0.15 (100% of' capital charge)
Insecticides            O 2  (25% of acreage)
Sub total          0.5N
Service charge            O05 (10%)
Total              0.60
C. Spray Requirement (1 lb gamna BAC/acc U Le, 1/ac)
Year-3   Year-2   Year-1   Year 1  Year 2
Cost (Le)                  120      750    1,500    2,250    3,000
August 9, 1974



Volume 3
Tpble 9
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEILPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Cocoa Spraying Costs
A, Requirements
Assume:
1  In seedling stage, 2 sprays per year against capsid.
2. From year 4, additional 5 sprays per year against
blackpod.
3,  Peak requirement determined by assuming 50% total
acreage to be sprayed in a 7 day period.
4. Spray rate 2.5 ac/day.
5.  Sprayer costs Le 45.00
Year-3   Year-2  Year-1  Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4  Year 5
Additional acres              160     330      260     500      500
Cumulative total acres        160     490      750   1,250   1,750   1,750   1,750   1,750
Cumulative podding acres                               160     490      750   1,250   1,750
Capsid Spraying
Peak acreages (50%)          80     245      375     625     875      875     875      875
Acres per day (' 7)          11      35       53      88     125      125     125      125
No. sprayers (-z 2.5)         5      14       21      35       50      50      50       50
Blackpod Spraying
Acres per day ('7)                                    23       70     107     179      250
No. sprayers (- 2.5)                                   9       28      43      72      100
Total Sprayers             5      14       21      35      50       50      72      100
B. Spraying Costs Per Acre
Sprayer capital charge /    o85       o85      o85     o85      o85     o85     .85      o85
Repair & maintenance  /       ,85     o85      .85     o85      085     .85     .85      .85
Insecticides                 2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2000    2,00    2.00
Fungicides                                            4.00    6o00   lo0OO   14o00   14.00
Sub total               3,70    3.70    3.70    7.70    9.70   13.70   17.70   17.70
Service charge (10%)          o37     .37      .37     o77      oS7    1.37    1.77    1.77
Total                   4.07     .0     407    8.47   10,67   15.07   19.47   19.47
C. Spray Requirements (Leones)
Insecticides                  320     980   1,500   2,500   3,500   3,500   3,500   3,500
Fungicides                    -       -        -       640   2,280   4,620   9,100  14460
Total                    320     980   1,500   3,140   5,780   8,120  12,600  17,960
j/ 17.5 acres per sprayer over 3 years.
LI 100% of capital charge.
August 9, 1974



Volume 3
Annex 4
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Oil Palm Outgrowers SPraying Costs
A. Sprayers
Assume:
1  Two sprays per acre during development period only (4 years).
2.  Peak requirement determined by assuming 50% total acreage
sprayed in a ten day period,
30  Spraying rate 2.5 acres per day.
4. Sprayer cost Le 45.00.
Pre-ProJect    Year-3   Year-2   Year-l   Year 1  Year 2
Additional acres          775          355      600      800       800      800
Development acres                      960    1,44o    1,990    2,555    3,000
Sprayed (50%)                          480      720      995    1,278    1,500
Acres/day (- 10)                        48       72      100       129      150
No. sprayers (:, 205)                   19       29        40       52       60
B. Spraying Costs per Acre
Capital                    .60 (25 acres per sprayer over 3 years)
Maintenance                .60 (100% of capital charge)
insecticide              2.00
Sub total              3020
Service charge             .30
Total                  3. 0 (10,)
C. Spray Requirements
Year-3   Year-2   Year-1   Year 1  Year .
Cost (Le)                 1,920    2,880    3,980    5,110    6,ooo
August 9, 1974



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Summary of Sprayer and Spray Requirements
--------_-Phase 1 -----                                    Foreign Exchange  Local
Year-3 Year-2 Year-1    Total      ear 1  ear 2 Total  %                Cost  Cost
1. Sprayer Requirement
Rice and Oil Palm              19       30      60     109        90     120      210
Cocoa                           5       14      21       40       35      50       85
Sub total                 24      44       81     149       125     170      295
Replacements                    -        -       -        -       24       44      68
Total                     24      44       81     149       149     214      363
Increment                      24       20      37       81       68       65     133
Capital Cost         Le?O0O     1.1    09       1.7      307      3,1      2.9     60o
Repair Cost          Le?OOO    0o4       0.7     1.2      2.3      2.2      3.2     5.4
Total Cost     LeOOO      1.5     1.6      2.9     6.0       5.3     6.1    11.4  80             9.1    2.3
2. Spray Requirements
Rice                 Le'OO0     0.1      0.8     1.5      2.4      2.3      3.0     5.3
Cocoa                LetOOO     0.3    10       1.5      2.8      3.1      5.8     8.9
Oil Palm             LeOOO     1.9      2.9     4.o      8.8      5.1      6.0    111
Total Costs    Le'OOO      2.3     4.7      7.0    14.0      10.5    14,8    25.3  80            20,2    5.1
Total Costs Sprayers                                                                                                  t
and Sprays                    3,8      6.3     9o9    20.0      15.8    20.9    36.7  80            29.3    7)4       i
September k, 1974



Volume 3
Annex 4
Appendix 1
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Company Formation
List of Contents of Appendix
A.   Formation of Companies
B.   Farmer Finance Company
C.   Daru Oil Palm Company
Table 1:  Farmer Finance Company          - Projected Balance Sheets
Table 2:  Farmer Finance Company          - Projected Income and Expenditure
Table 3:  Farmer Finance Company          - Administration Budget (Annual)
Table 4:  Farmer Finance Company          - Cash Flow Statement
Table 5:  Farmer Finance Company          - Interest Receivable
Table 6:  Farmer Finance Company          - Credit Requirements and Repayments
Oil Palm
Table 7:  Farmer Finance Company          - Credit Requirements and Repayments
Swamp Rice
Table 8:  Daru Oil Palm Company           - Projected Balance Sheets
Table 9:  Daru Oil Palm Company           - Projected Income and Expenditure -
Palm Oil Mill
Table 10: Daru Oil Palm Company           - Projected Cash Flow - Palm Oil Mill
Table 11: Daru Oil Palm Company           - Projected Income and' Expenditure -
Palm Oil Estate
Table 12: Daru Oil Palm Company           - Projected Summary Income and
Expenditure - Oil Palm Estate
Table 13: Daru Oil Palm Company           - Projected Cash Flow - Oil Palm
Estate



I



Volume 3
Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 1.
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
A. Formation of Companies
1.        The proposals for the formation of a Farmer Finance Company at
Kenema and an oil palm company at Daru were discussed with the project's
joint auditors in Freetown Messrs Peat, Marwick, Casselton, Eliott and Co.
and Messrs. Sheriff, Clinton and Co. They would be willing to undertake
formation of the two companies and could act as the legal company secretary
by providing the services of the registered office, maintenance of share
registers and the filing of all statutory returns. The companies could be
incorporated within two to three months from receipt of instructions.
2.        Projected balance sheets, income and expenditure statements, cash
flow statements and a list of specific items to be included in the Memorandum
and Articles of Association have been prepared for each of the three proposed
companies (see Tables 1 through 13).
B. Farmer Finance Company
Items for inclusion in Memorandum and Articles of Association in
addition or by amendment to standard clauses:
1. Memorandum
(i)  Objectives - to lend money to smallholder farmers for agricultural
purposes which would include inter alia:
land development costs
crop development costs
farm inputs - agricultural chemicals, fertilizer and seeds
hired labor
purchase of agricultural machinery and equipment
purchase of livestock and animal feedstuffs



Volume 3
Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
ii)   Share Capital
Authorized share capital 1,400,000
Ordinary A shares of Le 1 each (Ministry of Finance and
National Development Bank) with full voting rights but
not eligible for dividends.
100,000 ordinary B shares of Le 1 each - full voting and
dividend rights.
iii)   Borrowing Powers
Would be limited initially to 75 percent of the issued capital.
2.   Articles
(i) Share capital - freely transferable, subject only to directors'
approval which not to be unreasonably withheld. Shareholding
of individuals and cooperatives to be limited to not more than
1 percent of issued capital. Government and bank shareholders
to be excluded from this limitation.
(ii) Directors
- Number not less than 4 nor more than 6.
-  Share Qualification - nil
- Appointment (to be in writing addressed to Company Secretary)
One to be appointed by National Development Bank (act as
chairman)
One to be a representative of PSU
One to be appointed by the participating commercial banks
One to be appointed by EAP
Two representatives of the farmers to be appointed by the
paramount chiefs within the project area.
- Rotation - Appointment for (normally) two years, three to
retire each year and to be eligible for reappointment.
No retirement first year, thereafter three in 2nd year,
three in 3rd year.
- Remuneration - to be limited to a reasonable per diem
for each day attendance at board meetings plus reasonable
out of pocket travelling expenses. There would be no
directors' fees.



Volume 3
Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 3
- Powers
Control of borrowings
Investment of surplus funds
Determination of lending policy and interest rates
Appointment of general manager
Salaries and conditions of all senior staff
Share transfer approval
Dividend recommendation and transfers to reserves
Initial appointment of auditors and the fixing of their
remuneration
Appointment of company secretary
Appointment of solicitors
Appointment of bankers
- Meetings - to be held at least once a quarter and at such
times as the chairman may direct. Any director may request
the chairman to call a meeting providing there is an agenda.
- Quorum - minimum of 3 directors present - one of whom shall
act as chairman in absence of normal chairman.
-  Delegation - Board of directors may delegate any of their
powers to a sub-committee for specific purposes and with
specific terms of reference.
(iii) Dividend and Reserves
- Dividends to be paid only from surplus unappropriated
profits in any year after providing for past losses,
depreciation of assets including investments, taxation
and transfer to reserves.
- Directors to place to reserves (as a minimum) an amount
equivalent to any proposed dividends (gross).
- Any profits arising from sale of investments to be placed
to a capital reserve. Such reserves not to be available
for distribution as dividend.
(iv) Annual General Meeting
- To approve accounts and directors report
- To confirm dividend payments
- To appoint auditors (directors to fix their remuneration)
C. Daru Oil Palm Company
Items for inclusion in Memorandum and Articles of Association in
addition to or by amendment to standard clauses:



Volume 3
Annex 4
Appendix 1
1.   Memorandum                                                Page 4
(i)  Objectives - to own and operate the Daru Oil Palm Estate and Palm
Oil Mill, to provide processing facilities for nearby
oil palm growers, and to provide on behalf of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources advisory
services to farmers growing oil palm.
(ii) Equity - authorized capital 1,600,000; Ordinary share of Le 1
each, fully paid.
(iii) Borrowing powers - apart from the initial loan from Government
of Le 1,100,000 for the purchase, erection
and commissioning of the mill; seasonal
crop finance requirements and completion
of the estate, borrowings would be restricted
to an amount equal to issued share capital,
reserves and unappropriated profits.
2.   Articles
(i) Terms of Shares - freely transferable, subject only to directors'
approval which not to be unreasonably withheld.
(ii) Lending powers - to be restricted to the amount of issued
share capital. Such lending would be secured by a debenture
and would be on commercial terms. Loans would be restricted
for purposes in support of the objectives of the company, and
advances against crop purchases would be excluded from this
restriction.
(iii) Directors
- Number not less than 4, not more than 6.
- Share Qualification nil
- Appointment (in writing to Company Secretary)
One to be appointed by MANR (chairman)
One to be appointed by National Development Bank
One to be appointed by Bank of Sierra Leone
One to be appointed by SLPMB
One to be elected by registered farmer shareholders
at AGM. The Director must be a registered farmer.
One to be general manager of the company and to be
appointed by MANR.
- Remuneration - reasonable per diem for each day's attendance
at board meetings plus reasonable travelling and subsistence
expenses. There would be no directors' fees.



Volume 3
Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 5
-  Rotation - the appointed directors would serve for such
period of time as determined by their letter
of appointment. Letters to be addressed to
Company Secretary. The elected director(s)
would retire every second year and would be
eligible for reelection at AGM.
- Powers
Control of borrowings (other than initial loan for con-
struction and commissioning of mill)
Investment of surplus funds
Appointment of general manager, mill engineer and
estate managers
Fixing terms and conditions of senior staff
Payment of bonuses to all staff
Approval of share transfers
Control of capital expenditure and sale of assets
Approval of annual budgets
Recommendation of dividends to be paid
Transfers to and from reserves
Initial appointment of auditors and the fixing of
their remuneration
Appointment of solicitors
Appointment of bankers
Appointment of company secretary
Control and direction of Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources extensiok staff, paid for by the
Ministry but seconded to the Company, for the purpose
of advising producers supplying oil palm products to
the Company for processing;
Fixing producer prices for oil palm fresh fruit bunches
(including the Company's estate), supplied to the
Company Mill, in accordance with the guidelines attached
as Annex 1 of the Articles;
Act, on behalf of an appropriate lending agency, for
the disbursement of credit, in cash or kind, and
collection of loan repayments, for oil palm related
development and production.
- Delegation - Board may delegate any of their powers
to a sub-committee and/or general manager for specific
purposes with specific terms of reference.
- Meetings - to be held at least once a quarter and at such other
times as the chairman may direct. Any director may request
the chairman to call a meeting providing there is an agenda.
- Quorum - minimum of 3 directors present - one of whom shall act
as chairman in absence of normal chairman.
(iv) Accounts. Totally separate and identifiable accounts will be
kept for the operations of the oil palm estate and
palm oil mill.



Volume 3
Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 6
(v) Dividends and Reserves
- Dividends to be paid only from surplus unappropriated profits
in any year after providing for past losses, depreciation of
assets including investments, taxation, and transfer to re-
serves.
- Directors to place to reserves (as a minimum) an amount
equivalent to any proposed dividends (gross).
- Any profits arising from sale of investments to be placed to
a capital reserve. Such reserves not to be available for
distribution as dividend.
(vi) Annual General Meeting
- To approve accounts and directors report
- To confirm dividend payments
- To appoint auditors (directors to fix their remuneration)



Volume 3
Annex
Appendix 1
SIERRA LEONE                  Table 1
INTJUGATi;D AGRICULTUIRAL DEVEIDPHENT PROJECT II
EASTFN AREA PROJECT
Famer Finance Comsany
Projected Balance Sheets (December  31)
(Le '000)
1974        1975       1976        1977
LIABILITIES
Eauity /1                            10.0       815.0    1,1i5.0    1,400.0
Retained Incone/(Deficit)             0.3        (1.7)        4.9        12.5
10.3      133.      1,119.9     1,2.5
Loan from Government 2              350.7       45.4         21.4
361.0       a5L_                 1,2412.5
ASSETS
Loans to Farmers for
Development L                     129.8       261.8       376.1       4Lh.8
- Rice
- Oil Palm                         95.3      188.6        272.8       353.0
-  Cocoa                           47.0        81.24      141.1       20L7.
272.1      531.8       790.0    1,005.7
Cash  /4                             88.9      326.9       351.3       406.8
361.0      858.7    1,141.3      1.412.5
/1  Equity would consist of (a) EAP revolving credit fund contributions converted to Government equity.
Contributions each year would be converted to eauity in blocks of
100,000 ordinary A shares of Le 1 each. Government equity would
stand at Le 1,385,000 by 1977;
(b) contributions of Le 5,000 from each of the three commercial banks for
5,000 ordinary B shares of Le 1 each, payable in 1975; and
(c) purchase of ordinary B shares by participating farmer borrowers as
a condition for receiving loans.
It has not been possible to quantify the farmers equity shares in the Balance Sheets,as shares would be
issued only against payment. Farmers would undertake to purchase shares as a condition of their loans
but would be allowed to defer payment until their loan repayments commenced.
/2 Loans from Governments would comprise all development loans granted to Eastern Area Project farmers
through the revolving credit fund up to 31st December 1974 together with all further development loans
granted in connection with the Eastern Area Project physical program extension up to 31st December 1977.
Thereafter repayments from existing farmer development loans would be adequate to finance the completion
of the latest planting loans. In addition to financing the development loans, Government would provide
finance for the seasonal rice loans up to the total requirement on an incremental basis. All Government
finance would be converted to Government equity in the form of ordinary A shares in blocks of 100,000 as
administratively convenient (see Footnote 1 above).
/3  Loans to Famer. for Development - figures are computed on the physical program and the terms of the
various types of loan less repayments. Repayments have been calculated in full but an allowance for
bad debts of approximately 10 percent has been charged against the income of each year.
/4  Cash - initially this figure represents the repayment of seasonal loans.  Seasonal loans for rice peak
at approx. Le 300,000. Cash balance above this amount represents net development loan repayments less
income deficit financing. No account has been taken of possible income from short-term employment of
| cash balances. Such funds would be available for up to five months a year.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Farmer Finance Company
Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts (December 3)
(Le '000)
19Th        1975         1976         1977          1978         1979
Interest Receivable /1                      9g7          26.0         49.6         70.7          82.8         84.8
Less: Bad Debts /2
Income                             (0.8)        (3.0)        (5.2)        (7.7)         (8.8)        (8.8)
Loans                              (8.6)       (25.0)       (37.8)       (55.6)        (56.8)       (58.0)
Adinidistrabion Expenses /3                  -            -          (50.0)       (50.0)        (50.0)       (50.0)
(9.4)      (28.0)       (93.0)      (113.3)       (11.)        (11,)
Grant from Eastern Area Project
Extension /1                         _            _           so.o         50_0
Prof.t/(Deficit) for  year                   0.3          (PT.)        6.6 '77)
Balance brought iorward                      -            0.3         (1.7)         4.9          12.3        (20.5.)
Balance carried forward                      0.3         (1.7)         4.9         12.3         (20.5)       (52.5)
/1  Interest Receivable - initial interest income arises solely from the 10 percent flat rate charge on seasonal
loans for rice. The development loans enjoy interest free grace periods of varying length according to the
crop type.  From 1977 onwards, income from development loans becomes material.  Wo. acpo    has been taken of
possible additional income from investment of short-term surplus cash (up to five months each year) outside
of the project.
/2  Bad Debts - it has been assumed that the comptniy will suffer bad debts of approximately 10 percent of interest
income and repayme-nt installments each year.  The bad debts have been written off as incurred.
/3  Administration Expenses - the cost if administration and staff would be borne by the existing Eastern Area Project
up to and including 1975 as financial provision was made for the administration of the revolving credit fund,
now converted  irnto the farmer finance  Dmpany. The proposed two-year extension of the EAP includes financing
for the administration cos-ts for 1976 and 1977.  Thereafter, it is envisaged that the annual administration                     X
costs o0  Ee 50,000 (see Annex  1 , Table 3 ) would be financed from the companyls own generated incomeon the
assemptiorxs  that t:e bad debts level does not exceed 10 percent of annual incorme and repayments and that the
.nteresn b sIncoine is incrcased by the profitable employment of th.; cash surplus.



Volume 3
Anmexl 4
Appendix 1
SIERRA LEONE                     Tabile 3
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELDPMENT PROJECT II __
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Farmer Fimnce Company
Administration Budget (Annual).
Le '000
Staff costs (inclusive of all benefits)
1 Finance manager                                           1Oo 0.
1  Cashier                                                   5°0
2 Book-keepers (or simple accounting machine
operators) at 3.0 each                   6.0
1  Secretary                                                 200
1 Messenger                                                  1.O
24.0
Office accommodation, services and other expenses             22.0
Directors allowances and expenses                              4.0
Le   50_0
Capital Budget
Office furniture                                               5.0
2  sin-le accounting machines at Le 500 each                   1.0
1 typewriter                                                   0O5
Miscellaneous,filing cabinets, electricity and
telephone installation, etc.                                 3.5
LE,  10.0
Formation EXpenses                                       Le   100
(assumed no stamp duty payable)
1/ Commercial banks may be willing to provide the finance manager on a
secondment basis as part of their involvement.



Volume 3
SIERRA LEONE                                            aM; 4
IWI¶KIRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOMNT PROJECT II
EASTERRN AREA PROJECT
Farmer Finance Company
Cash Flow Statement
(Le '000)
1973          1974        219z5/-       1976         1977         Total
RECEIPTS
/2
Loan from Government '
Swamp rice /3                                32.8         185.6        357.0        118.5         96.0        789.9
oil palm                                     29.6          65.7         93.3         97.8        101.0        387.4
Cocoa                                       13.4           33.6         34.4         59.7         66.8        207.9
75-          289          44           276.0        263. 8   1 ,385.2
Loan Repayment Instalment 4
Swamp rice                                   10.0          70.0        200.0        325.0        450.o      1,055.0
Oil palm                                      -             -            -           12.0         18.0         30.0
Cocoa
10.0          70.0        200.0        337.0        769.0      1 ,085.0
Interest Receivable from Loans /5
Swamp rice                                    1.2           7.7         23.0         39.0         55.0        125.9
Oil palm                                      -             -            -            5.4          8.o         13.4
Cocoa                                                                                             ____
1.2           7.7         23.0                      63.0        139.3
Total Receipts                              87.0        _3__          707.7        MM_          7C947      2,oO9.5
PAYMENTS
/6
Loan to Farmers (Development & Seasonal)
Swamp rice                                   32.8         185.6        357.0        475.5        571.5      1,622.4
Oil palm                                     29.6          65.7         93.3         97.8        101.0        387.4
Cocoa                                        13.4          33.6         34.4         59.7         66.8        207.9
75.8         284.9       4 -7         7633.0        739.3      2,217.7
Administration Costs /7                         -             -            -           50.0         50.0        100.0
Total Payments                              757          249                       68                      2,317
Net Annual Cash Flow                             11.2          77.7        223.0        (25.6)         5.5        291.8
Cumulative Cash Position, Year's End             11.2          979         311.9        28._3        291 .8       291 .8
/1  Company operational, January 1, 1975.
/2  The initial loans from Government wDuld be converted into equity and vested in Ministry of Fimn3ce on formation of
Farmers Finance Company at January 1, 1975. Additional loans for 1975, 1976 and 1977 would also be converted into
Government equity at the end of each year.
13  Loans for Swamp rice for 1976 and 1977 wuld be the incremental requirement over the baae year 1975.
/4  Loan Repayment Instalments are detailed on Tables 6 and 7. The repayment is shown after deduction of 10S for possible bad debts.
/ Interest Receivaile from Loans is detailed on Table 5. The amounts shown are after deduction of 10% possiblefor bad debts.
/6 Loans to Farmers are detailed on Table 7 and Volume 3, Annex 3, Table 8 for Swamp rice aid Oil palm respectively.
/7  Administrative Costs. For 1975 the Farmer Finance Company would be managed, run and financed by the Eastern Area
Project. Thereafter the Comparn would manage its own affairs on an annual budget of Le 50,000 on the simplest basis.
It is likely that the World Bank would finance the administrative costs for 1976 and 1977. However, credit for this has
not been incorporated in the cash flow statement.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Farmer Finance Compay
(Le too')
i97      - 1Q74   1975      1 7,76   1977      1976     1979
lnLorest Receivable    Le/acre
(average)
DevKiopernt 91ans 1,7-' , 2.00          -        1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0
197)4  2.00               -            5.0       5.0      5.0
1),75  2.g0           -        -                 756       7.6
19,- 2.70                                                 8.1
/1    -       1.0       6.      13.6      21.7     28.8      23.8
ce~ason:a~ ..Loa :      . 2. 50 3.25--   1-2     7.-    20.0       30.0     40.0      40.0 4    O.0
Subtotal          1.2       8oL     26.0      43.6     61.7      68.8      63.8
eCss: Bad                                 -        O                           (6.7)    (6.8)    (6-0)
Int-rcrst Receivai)e (2*E;r)         1.2      7.7     23.0     39.0       55.0     62.0     57.0
OI.L Pa2i,
Development Loan /2  Le 3.50/t. ffb.  _          _         _        6.0      9.0      14.0      21.0
Less:  Bad Debts  3-                             _                 (0.6)    (1.0)         c2-0)
Interest Receivable (NET)            -         -        -        5.4     c8.0      12.0     1Q.n
/I Le 2.%o 1273 and 1,974; Le 3.2, post 1974
/2 Interest receipts would commence in 1976 with the operation of the mill. Interest repayments have been
averaged over the repayment term of the loan on an acreage yield basis.
/3 10 percent.



SIERRA LEDNE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
FARHER FINANCE COMPANY
Credit Requirements and Repayments - Oil Palm
Le '000)
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Oil Palm Development Loans
Loan Repayments (principal) 1/      _      _      _    13.6  20.8   32.0   47.2
Lesst
Bad Debts 10%                       -      -      -    (1.6)  (2.8)  (3.0)  (5.2)
Net Loan Repayments                   _      _      _    12.0   18.0   29.0   42.0
1/ Repayments collected by deduction of Le 11.50 per ton f.f.b. delivered
(principal Le 8.00 p.t. + interest Le 3.50 p.t.)
pl



SIULSA LEOR
INTEGRATO AGRICULT1UR10  DEVELWPMNT FRCRCT TI
EAOMMRN AREA PR9ECt
Faieor Firence Coa,ln
Credit Raq.irement and Re vyoeats - Sa.em  Rice
(Le '000)
1973                  1974                   1275                 1976                   1977                   1979                   1979
Annual  Cu=uletive   Annual  Cuoul.titve   Annual CI o,uloatiae   ADnual Culatiw   Annual   Cumlative    Annual   Cu-uitive   Ainal   Cua,1atlire
Leanea/anre
Swam Rice
Acreages  - Category A Suam                             475         475     2,525        3,000     1,800       4,800        900      5,700       900        6,600        -         6,600        -         6,600
Category 8 Swamp                            -           -         -            -       1,200       1.200     2.100       3.300     2.100       5.400  _                5.400       -         5.400
Developnent Loans
- Category A Soam,p     45.00                  21.4                 113.6                   dl.O                  40.5                  40.5
- Category d SVa,p      70.00                    -                     -                    84.0                 147.0                 147.0
21.4                 113.6                  165.0                 187,5                 187.5
Seasonal. Loan                          v
Average - Category A and R       32.0                  11.4                   72.0                 192.0                 288.0                 38.0
Total Losn Requlrements at
Snbsidiaed Cost of Fertilier                          32.8                  185.6                                       47545                 571.5
Subsidy from Governnt
Averege Cot. A & '               13.0 2/                6.2                   39.0                                                 _
Total Anual Ftnance  Requirene.tg                        39.0                  224.6
Total Annual finance  Raquirements
with 1976 & 1977 an increnantal boala                  39.0                  274.6                 357.0                  118.5                  96,0
Sepnynts (Principal on1y).../
DeveloypMAt Loans  1973           11.00                                          5.2                   5.2                    5.2                  5.2                                 0.6
1974           11.00                                                               27.8                  27.8                  27,8                                27.5                    2.4
1975           13.40                                                                                     40.2                  40.2                                40.2                   40.2
1976           15.20                                                                                                           45.6                                45.6                   45.6
1977          11.20                                                                                                                                               43.6                   45.6
1.2                  33.0                   73.2                 119.8                              159.8                  1331.
SeOnornI Lo.ns                                           11.4                   72.0                  192.0                  288.0                 34Bla.0                            3L-0   nR
Total Sepaymnnto due                       11.4                   77,2                  225.0                  361.2                 02.8                               A3.8                   517.8
Leass   BSd Debt. .4                                     (1I4)                   (7.2)                (25.0)                 (36.2)                (52a.O    _                          s.88
Net Rcyvavent                             10.0                   70.0                  200.0                  325.0                h0                                  190.0  ----            69.
J/  La  4 p.a. uP p, 1t7o  , - rrti r aubsdia.d
Le 32 p.ao. a.tr 1971,  a,no mws±dy-
4/ Sub,dy eWlaingted 1975 -uo
J  Awarged ovmr the gvntp categoricg
10 5  of totaS rapaVbnts due



INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Daru Oil Palm Company
Projected Balanre Sheet
LIABILITIES                                   1974         1975          1976        1977          1978         1979          1980          1981          1982          1983          1984
Equity Capital 1/
Palm Oil Mill                              -          1,150.0       1,150.0     1,150.0       1,150.0      1,150.0       1,150.0       1,150.0      1,150.0       1,150.0       1,150.0
Oil Palm Estate                           450.0         450.0         450.0        450.0         450.0       450.0         450.0         450.0        450.0         450.0         450.0
1,600.0      1,600.0      1,600.0       1,600.0      1,600.0       1,600.0      1,600.0      1,600.0       1,600.0       1,600.0
Unappropriated Income (deficit)
Palm Oil Mill                               -         (50.0)         (207.0)    (252.0)        (214.0)       (86.0)        121.0         419.0        792.0       1,221.0       1,651.0
Oil Palm Estate                             -         (96.5)         (126.0)    (129.5)        (110.0)       (71.9)        (19.8)    _0.5             103.8         168.0         233.0
-        (146.5)         (333.0)    (381.5)        (324.0)      (157.9)        iOl.2         459.5        895.8       1,389.0       1,884.0
Long Term Loan
Palm Oil Mill 7/                            -       1,000.0         1,000.0    1,000.0       1,000.0      1,000.0          950.0         900.0        850.0       800.0           750.0
Oil Palm  Estate 3/                         -         100.0           100.0       100.0         100.0       100.0            90.0         80.0         70.0        60.0            50.0
450.0   1,100.0          1,100.0    1,100.0        1,100.0     1,100.0        1,040.0          980.0       920.0       860.0            800.0
Bank Overdraft
Palm Oil Mill                               -          -               57.0         2.0                -            -              -             -                  -              -
Oil Palm Estate                             -          -               21.6        19.7          -            -             -              -           -            -               -
-          -               78.6        21.7          -            -            -              -            -            -               -
TOTAL                                     450.0    2.553.5          2.445.6   2.340.2        2.376.0    2.542.1          2.741.2       3.039.5      3.415.8       3.849.0       4.284.0
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Palm oil Mill                               -       2,000.0         2,000.0    2,000.0       2,040.0      2,080.0        2,130.0       2,190.0      2,260.0       2,330.0       2,400.0
Oil Palm Estate                            408.5      422,5           459.5       471.5         479.5       483.5          483.5         483.5        483.5         483.5         483.5
408.5    2,422.5         2,459.5    2,471.5        2,519.5     2,563.5        2,613.5       2,673.5      2,743.5       2,813.5       2,883.5
Less Accumulated Depreciation
Palm oil Mill                              -           -             (100.0)    (200.0)        (300.0)     (400.0)        (500.0)       (600.0)      (700.0)       (800.0)       (900.0)
Oil Palm Estate                                       (16.0)          (37.9)      (57.3)        (78.2)       (87.1)        (108.0)      (128.9)      (137.8)       (158.7)       (179.6)
_         (16.0)         (137.9)    (257.3)        (378.2)     (487.1)        (608.0)       (728.9)      (837.8)       (958.7)    (1,079.6)
Stocks and Spares
Palm Oil Mill                               -         100.0           100.0       100.0         100.0        100.0          100.0         100.0       100.0          100.0         100.0
Oil Palm Estate                           20.0         22.0            24.0        26.0          28.0        30.0            32.0          32.0        32.0          32.0           32.0
20.0       122.0           124.0       126.0         128.0        130.0          132.0         132.0       132.0          132.0         132.0
Cash at Bank
Palm Oil Mill                               -           -              -            -            96.0       284.0          491.0         779.0      1,132.0       1,541.0       1,951.0
Oil Palm Estate                           21.5         25.0            -            -            10.7         51.7          112.7         183.9       246.1         321. 2         397.1
21.5        25.0             -           -           106.7        335.7          603.7        962.9      1,378.1       1,862.2       2,348.1
TOTAL                                    450.0      2.553.5         2.445.6   2.340.2        2.376.0      2,542.1        2.741.2       3,039.5    3,415.8         3,849.0       4.284.0
1/  1,200,000 ordinary shares of Le 1 each - held by Ministry  of Finance on behalf of MANR; Bank of Sierra Leone 180,000 shares; 'LPM}, 120,000 shares.
2/  Loan of Le 1,000,000 from Government to cover cost of mill.  Interest 8% with 20 annual repayments of Le 50,000 each commencing 1980.
3/  Loan for Le 100,000 held by Ministry of Finance and secured by debenture on assets of estate.  Interest at 8% per annum - repayable in 10 installments of Le 10,000 each
commencing in 1980.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Daru Oil Palm Company
Palm Oil Mill - Projected Cash Flow
(Le '000)
1976        1977        1978         1979        1980         1981         1982        1983         1984         1985
Li
THROUGHPUT   ffb         - tons -   Outgrowers                      1,700       2,600       4,000        5,900       8,100       10,600       12.100      13.300       14,100       14,500
Estate                        5,300        6.800       8,100        8,900       9, 500      9.900       10 000       10, 000_    10.000       10.000
1i                      Total                         7,000        9,400      12,100       14,800      17,600       20,500_    22,100        23,300       24,100      24,500
PRODUCTION   Palm Oil - tons -   Outgrowers                           310         490          750       1,120        1,550       2,060        2,450       2.790        3,050        3,180
Estate                        1,030        1,360       1,660        1,880       2,050        2,160       2,200        2,200        2,200       2,200
Total                         1,340        1,850       2,410        3,000       3,600        4,220       4,650        4.990        5,050        5,380
Kernels  - tons -   Outgrowers                          80          120         190          280         390          510         600          670          710          730
Estate                           260         330         400          470         480          490          500         500          500          500
Li                           Total                           340          450          590         750         870        1,000       1,100        1,170        1,210        1,230
REVENUE       Palm Oil @ Le 240 per ton  (Le '000)                    322         444          578          720         864       1,013        1,116        1,198       1,212        1,291
Kernels  @ Le  90 per ton  (Le '000)                    31           41          53           68           78          90           99         105          109         111
Subtotal                            353         485          631          788         942       1,103        1,215        1,303       1,321        1,402
EXPEND ITURE
Mill start-up and initial training costs  L3                        50
Mill operating expenses                                             95         100          105         110          115         120          125          135         140          145
Interest on working capital                    L                    10          15            5          -            -            -                         -           -            -
Interest on long-term loan                    8L0                               80           80          80           80          72           64           56          48           40
Depreciation                                  /6                   100         100          100         100          100         100          100          100         100          100
Subtotal                            35          295          290         290          295          292         289          291          288         285
Purchase of ffb    @ Le 25 per ton          /7                     175         235          303         370          440         513          553          583         603          613
510         530          593         660          735         805          842          874         891          898
Surplus (Deficit)                                                    (157)         (45)         38          128         207          298         373          429        430           504
/1  Throughput and production (see Annex 3    Table 13  ).  Production capacity based on 5 ton/hour x 2-8 shifts per day for 6-day weeks  for 48 weeks = 23,000 tons.
12 Revenue based on ex-mill prices - palm oil sold internally, kernels exported.
/3 Mill due for completion, Oct. 1975 - official handover approx. end 1975.
L4 Interest at 10%.
/5 Interest at 8%.
L6  Average 57. straight line.
/7  Purchase of ffb from both estate and outgrowers at Le 25 per ton delivered to mill.  Mill would physically provide transport, but                          would recover full costs from
estate and growers.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Daru Oil Palm Company
Palm Oil Mill - Projected Cash Flow
(Le '000)
1975        1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982          1983         1984
Inflow
Loan fr   Government A                            1,000
Equity ?/                                         1,150
Surplus/(Deficit) a3                                 (50)      (157)        (45)          38           128          207          298          373          429           430
Depreciation                                                    100         100          100           100           100          100          100          100          100
Subtotal            2,100         (57)         55          138           228          307          398          473          529          530
Outflow
Purchase of mill, spares  4                       2,100          -            -             -            -            -            -            -            -            -
Loan repayments                                      -           -             -            -            -            50          50            50           50           50
Capital replacements                                 -           -            -           40            40            50          60            70           70           70
Subtotal            2,100          -            -           40            40          100          110          120          120           120
Net cash flow                                          -           (57)         55           98           188          207          288          353          409          410
Cumulative                                             -           (57)         (2)          96           284          491          779       1,132         1,541        1,951
a1 25-year loan bearing 8% interest, annual repayments of Le 50,000 after 5-year grace period.
2 Equity - details of shareholders on Table 8.
/3 Table 9.
/4  Cover cost of mill and spares provided in part by funds from IDA and Government and equity contributions from Rank of Sierra Leone and SLPMB.                                                0
IH



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
DARU OIL PALM COMPANY
Oil Palm Estate - Projected Income and Expenditure &tatement
(Leones)
1974        1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        1981        1982 onwards
Mature Acreage                                               964       1,290       1,500      1,800        2,000       2,000        2,000       2,000       2,000
Production - ffb - tons                                   2,392       3,843       5,283       6,759        8,068       8,932       9,542        9,898      10,000
Revenue - as outgrover  to Gambia Oil Mill               23,900      18,250
- as supplier   to Daru Oil Mill /1                          24 o50     132,100     169.000      201 00     223.300     238,800     274.400      260,00
-d               23,900     42,300      132,100     169,000      201,5OO    223,300      235,800     247,400     250,000
Experditure
Harvesting Labor J1                                    4,800       7,800       10,600     13,600       16,200      18, oo       19,200      19,800      20,000
Transport ffb to Hll                                      -        1,500       8,000      10,200       12,100      13,400       14,400      14,900      15,000
Nets                                                     400         600         600         700          800         900       1,000        1.100       1.200
Subtotal                                  5,200       9,500      19,200      24,500       29,100      32,300      34,600       35,800      36,200
Estate Maintenance - mature acreage
Labor /4                                               10,000     13,000       15,000     18,000        20,000     20,000       20,000      20,000      20,000
Fertilizer (at unsubsidised cost) (                   17,000      22,000      256500      30,600       34,ooo      34,000       34,000      34,000      34,0oo
Pesticides 
Tractor/Trailers operational costs(                    g,ooo        9,000       9,000       9,000        9,000       9,000       9,000       9,000       9,000
including drivers, etc.                              90          9
Tools                                                  1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000        1,000       1,000        1,00      0 11.000
Subtotal                                 37,000      45,o000     50,S0       58,600       64,000      64,000       64,000      64,000      64,000
Estate Management
Salaries                                              30,000      30,000       30,000     30,000       30,000       30,000      30,000      30,000      30,000
General overhIads                                      30.000     30,000       30,000     30.000        30 o,0      30o000      30.000      3 0o00      30.000
Subtotal                                 60,0,00     0 g,00      60,000      60,00        60,00       60,000       O          600000
Amortization ard Depreciation
Estate Developrmnt Costs                               8,000       10,500      12,000      14,500       16,000     16,000       16 000      16,000      16,000
Equip-sart                                              6,000       5,000       9,000       4,000        4,000       4,000       4,000       4,000       4,000
Buildings                                                500          500         900         900          900         900         900         900         goo
Subtotal                                 13,500      16,000       21,900     19,400        20,900      20,900      20,900      20,900      20,900
115,700     130,800     151,600     162,500      174,000     177,200     179,500     180,700     181,100
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) ON OPERATICNS                          (91 800)   (88,500       19 500)      6,500       27 500      46,100      59,300      66,700 
(before providing for interest and taxation)
/I  Price from Daru Oil Mill Le 25 pt ffb, delivered mill.
L2  2MD per ton ffb at Le 1 per manday.
/3   Transport provided by mill and charged at Le 1.50 per ton ffb.
A4  lo1 MD per acre at Le I per manday.
/5   2 tractors with trailers for general estate work.                                                                                                                     .



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Daru oil Palm Company
oil Palm Estate - Proie',ted Suimmary Income an,' Expenditure Acrount
(Le '000)
1975            1976            1977             1978            1979             1980            1981             1982             1983            1984
Surplus/(Deficit) on Operation (Table 12)            (88.5)          (19.5)            6.5             27.5            46.1             59.3            66.7             68.9            69.0             69.0
Less:   Overdraft Interest                             -               2.0              2.0             -                -               -               -                -                -               -
Loan Interest                                8.0              8.0             8.0             8.0              8.0             7.2              6.4              5.6             4.8              4.0
8.0            10.0            10.0              8.0             8.0              7.2             6.4              5.6             4.8              4.0
Net Surplus/(Defecit) for year                       (96.5)          (29.5)            (3.5)           19.5            38.1             52,1            60.3             63.3            64.2             65.0
Cumulative Surplus/(Defecit)                         (96.5)         (126.0)         (129.5)          (110.0)          (71.9)           (19.8)           40,5            103.8           168.0            233.0
Iqt  {



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Daru Oil Palm Company
Oil Palm Estate - Projected Cash Flow
( Le '000 )
1           2            3            4           5            6            7            8             9         10
1975        1976         1977          1978        1979         1980         1981         1982         1983        1984
Receipts
Loan from Government (ex IDA)                                    100.0       -            -             -            -            -           -            -             -          -
Net Income for Year                                              (88.5)       (19.5)        6.5          27.5         46.1         59.3        66.7         68.9         69.0        69.0
Amortization and Depreciation                                     16.0         21.9        19.4          20.9         20.9         20.9        20.9         20.9         20.9        20.9
27.5         2.4         25.9         48.4         67.0         80.2         87.6         89.8        89.9        89.9
Paymen ts
Capital Additions and Replacements
Estate Development Costs                                        114.0         8.3         12.0          8.0          4.0
Equiprent and Vehicles                                                       12.0                                   12.0                                  12.0
Buildi ngs                                                                   16.7
Subtotal                                         14.0         37.0         12.0          8.0         16.0        -            -             12.0                    -
Loan Interest - 8%                                                 8.0          8.0         8.0           8.0          8.0          7.2          6.4          5.6         4.8        I4.o
Loan Repayment LI                                                              -            -            -                         10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0       10.0
Increase in Net Current Assets                                     2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0        -            -             -          -
Overdraft Interest 10%                                            -             2.0         2.0          -            -            -           -           -              -          -
24.0        49.0         24.0          18.0         26.0         19.2        16.4         27.6         14.8       14.0
Cash Flow for Year                                                   3.5        (46.6)        1.9          30.4         41.0         61.0         71.2         62.2        75.1       75.9
Balance at beginning of year                                        21.5         25.0         21.6        (19-7)        10.7         51.7        112.7        183.9        246.1     321.2
Balance at end of year                                              25.0         21.6        (79.7)        10.7         51.7        112.7        183.9        246.1        321.2      397.1
/I  Loan of Le 100,000 repayable in 10 equial instalmentr  of Le 10,000 each commencing 1980 (after 5-year grace period).



Volume 3
Annex 4
Appendix 2
OIL PALM PRODUCER FFB PURCHASE PRICE FORMULA
1.        The basic principles to be followed by the Daru Oil Mill Company
to formulate the purchase price for fresh fruit bunch payable by the Daru
Oil Mill Company would be attached as an Annex to the Company's Memorandum
and Articles of Association, and would incorporate the following:
(a) each calendar month, the Company would publish the previous
months average mill gate price received for oil and palm kernels;
(b) the ex-mill value of the derivatives of a ton of producers'
fresh fruit bunch (including the Company Estate) would be de-
rived from the mill gate (i.e. mill tank value for palm oil and
mill store value for naked palm kernels) value by:
Mi) first, deducting an agreed amount, per ton of palm oil
and per ton of naked palm kernels, in lieu of profit,
depreciation, long-term loans and working capital charges
and standard company tax attributable to the operations
of the mill;
(ii) second, deducting any levies, cesses, or duties imposed by
any taxing authority of Government, other than standard
company tax; and then
(iii) applying rates of extraction of oil and kernels from
producers' fresh fruit bunch, agreed on the basis of
monthly factory tests satisfactory to Government.
(c) The purchase price of fresh fruit bunch payable by the Daru
Oil Palm Company to producers (including the Company's own
estate) would be the ex-factory value of the derivatives of a
ton of producers fresh fruit bunch less the following agreed
charges:
(i) agreed mill operating costs, including management, but
excluding depreciation and working capital charges; and
(ii)  transport costs for collection and delivery to the mill of
producers fruit.
2.        The price for fresh fruit bunches payable to producers as derived
above would not include debts payable by producers relating to oil palm
production. These payments concerning loan servicing for seasonal and de-
velopment loans would be deducted from the producer fresh fruit bunch price
by the mill on behalf of and in consultation with the credit lending institu-
tion.



Volume 3
ANNEX 5
SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Project Costs
Table 1        Salaries, Wages and Emoluments
Table 2        Vehicles, Plant and Equipment
Table 3        Buildings, Furnishings and Construction Materials
Table 4        Vehicle Operating
Table 5        General Services - Recurrent
Table 6        Farm Inputs






Volum 3
Anex 
Table I
SIERRA LErJ3E
RSuAmh  KtICULTRA  mNoM1T sonr II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Salaries. Wages and Emolua,ets
(L.e  000)
Unit    No. of                                                 Foreign Exchange       Local                     Post Developasent
Unit        Cost      uits           Year 1          Year 2    Total         X         Costs       Casts              Year 3       Year 4 th-u 20
1.  Administration Services
Project Manager                          nan year       9.0        2           (1)   9.0      (1)   9.0    18.0                               18.0                    -
Accountant                                              6.0         2          (1)   6.0      (1)   6.0    12.0           -         -         12.0              (1)   6.0    (1)   6.0
Ioter-nl Auditor                                        5.0        2           (1)   5.0      (1)   5.0    10.0                               10.0                     -
Asst. Internal Auditor                      "           4.0        2           (1)   4.0      (1)   4.0      8.0          -         -          8.0                     -  -
Admi.  officer                              .           5.0        2           (1)   5.0      (ly   5.0    10.0           -         -         10.0              (1)  510      (1)   5.C
S.ecrtaries                                             1.9       10           (5)   9.5      (5)   9.5    19.0           -         -         19.0              (2)   3.0    (1)   I.9
Chief Clerks                                            1.8         2          (1)  18       (1)   1.8       3.6         -                    3.6              (1)   1.8    (1)   1.8
Accounts Clerks                             "           2.1        6           (3)   6.3      (3)   6.3    12.6           -                   12.6              (1)   2.1    (1)   2.1
Storekeepers                                "           1.1        2           (1)   1.1      (1)   1.1       2.2         -         -          2.2              (1)   1.1    (I)   I.
Clerk/Radio Operators                                   1.0       20          (10)  10.0    (10)  10.0    20.0                                20.0              (5)   5.0    (5)   5.0
Driver/L.aborers                                        0.6       50          (25)  15.0    (25)  15.0    30.0            -         -         30.0             (10)   6.0    (5)   3.0
Project Agent - Freaertn s                              5.0        2           (13    LL 5.0   fl5  -.iJ   1OuQ 0         .         t           O 10 0-_                             _
Subtotal                                           77.7           77.7   155.4          -                   155.4                   30.8          25.
2.  Eulousion & Trnicr  la-vices
Extension & Training Officer                           36.0        2          (1)  36.0       (1)  36.0    72.0        100        72.0         -
Senior Extension Officer                    a           6.0        2           (1)   6.0      (1)   6.0    12.0           -         -         12.0              (1)   6.0            -
Training Officer                                        6.0         2          (1)   6.0      (1)   6.0    12.0           -         -         12.0              (1)   6.0    (1)   6.0
Seeds Officer/Rese.rch Officer                          6.0        2           (1)   6.0      (1)   6.0    12.0           -         -         12.0              (1)   6.0    (1)   6.0
Training Instructor                                     1.3        8           (4)   5.2      (4)   5.2    10.4           -         -         10.4              (4)   5.2    (4)   5. 
Matron                                                  1.0        2           (1)   1.0      (1)   1.0       2.0         -         -          2.0              (1)   2.0    (1)   2.0
Drivers                                                 0.6        8           (4)   2.4      (4)   2.4      4.8          -         -          4.8              (1)   1.8    (3)   1.2
Agricultural Officers                                   6.0        9           (4)  24.0      (5)  30.0    54.0           -         -         54.0              (5)  30.0    !3' 18.0
Agricultural Instructors                    "           1.3       60         (28)  36.4    (32)  41.6    78.0             -         -         78.0             (32)  41.6   f16,  20.8
Junior Field Assistants                                 0.8       40          (18)  14.4    (22)  17.6    32.0            -         -         32.0             (20)  16.0    (5)   4.0
Clerks/Radio Operators                                  1.0       10           (5)   5.0      (5)   5.0    10.0           -         -         10.0              (4)   4.0    (3)   3.0
Drivers                                     99          0.6       18           (8)   4.8    (10)   6.0    10.8            -         -         10.8              (8)   4.8    (6)   3.6
Laborers/Watch-.es                                      0.5       20          (10)   5.0    (10)   5.0    10.0            -         -         10.0              (8)   4.0    (6)   3.0
Resea-ch Assistant                          ..          1.2       12           (4)   4.8      (8)   9.6    14,4                               14.4                     -             -
Subtotol                                         157.0          nb7_    334.4          22        72.0      262.4                  127.4           72.0
3.  Conseryation & land D-velorpent Servicen
Corneation & Land I2evelopeent Officer                36.0         2          (1)  36.0       (1)  36.0    72.0        100        72.0         -
Statistician                                           5.0          2          (1)   5.0      (1)   5.0    10.0           -         -         10.0
Senior Land Planner                                    5.0          2          (1)   5.0      (1)   5.0    10.0           -         -         10.0
Building Superior                                      5.0          2          (1)   5.0      (1)   5.0    10.0           -         _         10.0
Field Surveyor - Grade I                               1.6         7           (3)   4.8      (4)   6.4    11.2           -         -         11.2
Field Surveyor - Grado II                              1.2         6           (3)   3.6      (3)   3.6       7.2         -         _          7.2
Field Surveyor - Grade III                             0 9         7           (3)   2 7      (4)   3.6       6.3         -         _          6.3
Cartographer                                           1.6          2          (I)   1.6      (1)   1.6       3.2         -         _          3.2
Enumerator                                             0.8        10           (5)   4.0      (5)   4.0       8.0         -         -          9.0
Clerks                                                  1.0        4           (2)   2.0      (2)   2.0       4.0         -         -          4.0
Drivers                .                               0.6         4           (2)   1.2      (2)   1.2       2.4               _   -          2.4
Subtotal                                           70.9           73.4   144.3          50        72.0       72.3
4.  Co           S-erciaila-vices
Coussercial Officer                        "          8.0          2          (1)   8.0       (1)   8.0    16.0          -         -         16.0               (l)   8.0    (1)   a.o
Stores Controller                           "          5.0         2           (1)   5.0      (1)   5.0    10.0           -         -         10.0              (1)   5.1    (1)   5.0
Accountant                                             5.0          2          (1)   5.0      (1)   5.0    10.0           -         _         10 0              (1)   5        (1)  530
Area Salesoen                                          3.0        24          (12)  36.0    (12)  36.0    72.0            _         -         72.0             (12)  36.0   (12)  36.0
Accounts Assistants                                    I 1.0      24          (12)  12.0    (12)  12.0    24.0            -         -         24.0             (12)  12.0   (12)  12.0
Drivers                                     .          0.6         4           (2)   1.2      (2)   1.2       2.4         _         _          2.4              (2)   1.2    (2)   1.2
Area Storenen/Clerk"                                   0.9        24          (12)  10.8    (12)  10.8    21.6            -         _         21.6             (12)  10.8   (12)  10.8
Laborers                                               0.5        32          (16)   8.0    (16)   8.0    16.0                                16.0             (16)   8.0   (16)   8.0
Subtotal                                           86.0           86.0   172.0          _                   172.0                   86.0           86.0
5.  Seed MIltiplication  Unit /I                                                         11.3           11.3    22.6          -          -         22.6
Total                                             402.9          425.8   028.7          17.0    144.0       604.7                  244.2          184.7
Local Staff                                                                       330.9           353.8   604.7          -         -        69r 7=7                               tg
Internation lly Recruited Staff                                                    72.0            72.0   144.0        100.0    144.0         -
/I   See Annex 4, Table 7.



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVEL0RIENT PROJECT II
Eastern Area Project
Vehicles, Plant. and Eaui3ment
I. 'OOD's                                                                                  1979
Unit        No. of                                                    Foreign Exchanae           Local                     through
Unit        Cost         Units         Year 1         Year 2         Total                     'Cost         Costs         1978         1995
1. Administration Services
Saloen car                                  no.        4.2          2           (2) 8.4                         8.4           90            74;          0.8                    (1/3) 1.4
Personnel carrier                            11        4.1          1           (1) 4.1                         4.1           90            3.7          0.4                    (1/3) 1.4
Pool lorry - 7 ton                                     7.6          1           (1) 7.6                         7.6           90            6.9          0.7                    (1/3) 2.5
Motor cycle                                            0.4          2           (2) 0.8                         0.8           90            0.7          0.1      (1) 0.14       (1)  0.4
Bicycle                                                 0.1         2           (2) 0.2                          0.2          90            0.2          ---      (1) 0O         (1)  0 1
21.1                        21.1           90          19.1          2.0           0.5          5.8
2.  Extension & Trainirg Services
Personnel carrier                            '         4.1          1           (1) 4.1                         4.1           90            3.6          0.5                    (1/3) 1.2
Pick-up truck                                          3.9          7           (6)23.4       (1) 3.9          27.3           90           24.6          2.7                     (2)  7.8
Land Rover - L.W.B.                                    6.0          2           (2)12.0                        12.0           90           10.8          1.2                    (2/3) 4.0
Motor cycle                                             o 0.4      45          (37)14.8        (8) 3.2          18.0          90           16.2          1.8                    (10)  4.0
Bicycle                                                 0.1        22          (18) 1.8        (4) 0.4           2. 2         90            2.0          0.2     (10) 1.0        (5)  0.5
56.1            7.5         63.6           90          57.2          6.4           1017.5
3,  Corservation & Land Developrent Services
Pick-up truck                                          3.9          2           (2) 7.8                         7.8           90            7.0          0.8                    ----   -
Land Rover - L.W.B.                          "          6.0         1           (1) 6.0                          6.0          90            5.4          0.6                      -
Motor cycle                                  t          0.4         8           (7) 2.8        (1) 0.4           3.2          90            2.9          0.3-          - -
Bicycle                                                 0.1         9           (8) 0.8        (1) 0.1           0990                       0.9          0.0---                         -
17.4           0.5          17 9           90          16.2          1.7              -       -         _
4.  Commercial Services
Saloon car                                             4.0          1           (1) 4.0                         4.0           90            3.6          0.4                    (1/3) 1.3
Pick-up truck                                          3.9          1           (1) 3.9                          3.9          90            3.5          0.4                    (1/3) 1.3
Motor cycle                                             0.4        12          (12) 4.8                          4.8          90            4.3          0.5    (12) 4.8         (6)  2.4
12.7                        12.7           90          11.4          1.3           4.8             5.0
5.  Seed Multiplication Unit (Details Annex 4, table 7)                                  7.0                        70             90            6.3         0.7                     (1/3) 2.4
TOTAL                                           114.3            8.0        122.3           90          110.2         12.1          6.3            30.7
MU 



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPtNT PROJECT II
Eastern Area Project
Buildings, Furnishings, Construction Materials
(Le '000)
Unit    Number of                                Foreign Exchange   Local          Post Development
Units   Costs      Units     Year 1   Year 2   Total   %              Cost   Costs   Year 3   Years 4 thru 20
1. Administration Services
Furniture for Office Block                                        10.0     10.0      20.0   -               -     20.0
2. Extension & Training Services
House                                no     18.0    3   (2)       36.0 (1) 18.0      54.0   60            32.4   21.6
Office/Store                         no      10.0    3   (2)      20.0 (1) 10.0      30.0   60             18.0   12.0
Subtotal                                                 56.0      28.0      84.0   60            50.4   33.6
3. Commerial Services
House                                no      18.0    1   (1)      18.0               18.0   60             10.8    7.2
Service Centers:
Office and store                         13.0   12   (6)       78.0 (6) 78.0    156.0   60              93.6   62.4
Subtotal                                                 96.0      78.0    174.0   60            104.4   69.6    ___
TOTAL                                                   162.0    116.0    278.0   56             154.8  123.2    NIL             NIL
F3>c
rnc
a,
La



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Eastern Area Project
Vehicle Operatin Costs 1/
(Le I0OO's)
Annual                                       Foreign    Exchange    Local             Post Development
Unit Cost     Year 1      Year 2   Total        %       Costs        Costs       Year 3    Years 4 thru 20
7-ton lorry      6.8    (1)    6.8  (1)    6.8        13.6      70.0        9.6       4.0  (1)    6.8  (1)           6.8
Saloon car       2.8    (3)    8.4  (3)    8.4        16.8      70.0       11.8       5.0  (2)    5.6  (2)           5.6
Pick-up truclc   3.0    (9)   27.0 (10)   30.0        57.0      70.0       40.0      17.0  (3)    9.0  (3)           9.0
Personnel
carrier        2.4    (2)    4.8  (2)    4.8         9.6      70.0        6.7       2.9  (2)    4.8  (2)           4.8
Land Rover -
L.W.B.         5.0    (3)   15.0  (3)   15.0        30.0      70.0       21.0       9.0  (2)   10.0  (2)          10.0
Motor cycle      0.5   (58)   29.0 (67)   34.0        63.0      70.0       44.0      19.0 (40)   20.0 (30)          15.0
91.0        99.0     190.0       70.0     133.1       56.9         56.2              51.2
1/ See following table for detail.
cost distribution - Project administration  5, 
Technical department   60                                                                        CD
Commercial department  30,                                                                            CD
Development department  5,'                                                                       x



SIERRA LEONE
INrEGktATElD AGRIC(IMIURAL bEWLOWEN'T PMwJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(Le)
/1                   /2         /3                              Total
Capital Annual               Cost of       Fuel     Oils &     Mainte-   Road Tax/   Total          with         Le/
Cost   Mileage               Fuel                 Lubricants  nance   Insurance                 Depreciation    mile
A4
5 Ton Lorry              7,000    35,000               d 0.80       3,400    340         1,750     1,010        6,500         8,800       0.05
7 Ton Lorry              7,600    35,000               d 0.80       3,400    340         1,900     1,160        6,800         9,300       0.04
Saloon Cars              4,200    25,000               p  1.05      1,050    100         1,050       600        2,800         4,200       0.17
Pick-ups  30 cwt         3,900    25,000               p  1.05      1,300    130         1,000       570        3,000         4,300       0.17
Personnel Carriers       4,100    25,000               p  1.05      1,600    160         1,040       600         2,400        3,800       0.15
Landrovers  LWB          6,000    25,000               p  1.05      2,400    240         1,500       860        5,000         7,000       0.28
Motorcycles                400    10,000               p  1.05        200      30     (50%) 200       70           500          700        0.07
/1  Le per gallon.
/2  10% of fuel.                                                                                                                                       , x 2
/3  25% of cost.
L4   d = diesel;   p = gasoline.                                                                                                                       a.



SIERRA LEONE
IWITERkATE;D  AGRIl;ULTUtAL DEVELOPEMI;= P)JECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
General Services Recurrent Costs
(Le '000)
Annual
Unit                                                   Foreign Exchange       Local                 Post  Development
Cost           Year 1           Year 2           Total        %       Costs  Costs              Year 3           Years 4 - 20
HQ Running Costs                                                    15.0               15.0           30.0        50      15.0   15.0                 8.0               5.0
Telephone and Cable Charges                                          3.0                3.0            6.0         -        -      6.0                4.0               2.0
Building Maintenance                                                 5.0                5.0           10.0         -       -      10.0                5.0               5.0
Residential Farmers Training Courses                                 6.0                6.0           12.0         -        -     12.0                6.0                6.0
Insurance                                                           10.0              10.0           20.0          -       -      20.0              10.0               10.0
Entertainment                                                        2.0                2.0            4.0         -       -       4.0                2.0               1.0
Internal Transport                                                   5.0               5.0            10.0         -       -      10.0                5.0               3.0
Seed Multiplication Farm /I
(Operational and Maintenance)                                      3.8               3.9            7.7        70        5.5    2.2
House Rentals
Administration Services                            1.4        (11)  15.4       (11)   15.4            30.8         -        -     30.8          (5)   7.0         (1)   1.4
Extension & Training Services                      0.5         (1)   0.5        (1)    0.5             1.0         -        -       1.0         (1)   0.5         (1)   0.5
Conservation & Land Development Services
(House and Office)                             3.0         (1)   3.0        (1)    3.0             6.0         -        -       6.0
Conmmrcial Services                                0.6        (14)   8.4       (14)    8.4            16.8         -        -     16.8        (14)   8.4         (14)   8.4
TOTAL                                        77.1               77.2          154.3        13       20.5  133.8               55.9               42.3
/I  See AN1EX 4, Table 7 for details.                                                                                                                                            a. pI
a A



SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Eastern Area Project
Summary of Farm Input Costs
(Le '000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1      Year 2       Total       8oCost                   Local Cost
Fertilizers:
for development 1/                                   37.2        32.9         70.1       80            56.1           14.0
for incremental seasonal 1/                         102.7        92.5        195.2        80          156.2           39.0
for multiplication farm 27                            1.9         1.9          3.8        80            3.0            0.8
Subtotal                                                                29.1   215.
Other Inputs:
Seeds and seedlings for farmers 3/                  130.6        65.5        196.1        _              -           196.1
Seeds for seed multiplication farn 2/                 0.5         0.5          1.0        -              _             1.0
Pesticides/fungicides:
for farmers 4/                                     9.0        12.5         21.5       85            18.3            3.2
Polybags for seed farm 2/                             3.0         3.0          6.o        85            5.1            0.9
Clonal seed garden 5/ -                               5.5         1.1          6.6        50            3.3            3.3
Hired labor 6/                                      233.0       250.4        483.4        -               -          483.4
Hand tools 67                                        31.9        32.8         64.7        50            32.3          32.4
Sprayers 4/                                           5.3         6.1         11.4        85             9.7           1.7
Subtotal                                       61. 77 790.7                         -7              7t          7=
Total Farm Input Costs                                560.6       499.2      1,059.8        27           284.o         775.8
1/  Vol. 3, Annex 4, Table 3.
2/  Vol. 3, Annex 4, Table 6.
3/  Vol. 3, Annex 4, Table 2 - for rice seed incremental value only.
U/  Vol. 3, Annex 4, Table 11 - on incremental basis for rice farmers.
§/  Vol. 3, Annex 4, Table 7.
6/  Vol. 3, Annex 4, Table 4.                                                                                               >IIi 






SIERRE LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT It
Orgnnztion of Minist  of Agrbouure and Natural R_oac
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
ANOD IATURAL RESOURICES
PEFIMANENT SECRETARY
AGRICULTURAL         L|                                                                RO EVALAJATION
RESEARCH INSTITUTE      -A r    --           -TRVC  UNIT
PROJECT ADVISOR                                                                        P    - - -a ~ ~C UBLI ITY
COMMITTEE            -         ----j  
...T
ADMINISTRATIVE              EASTERN AREA               NORTHERN
PRODUCE                   AGRICULTURAL                FISHERIES                   FORESTRY                   VETRINARY                AND ACCOUNTS                PROJECT                    ARAPOJECT
tVIS          ETE                     ~~~~~~~~~~~IVINIO
INSPECTIONOIVISION                             DIVISION.                   DIVIION                    DIVISION                 D INVISION                  POETAE  RJC
Depert-.t,:n
E.te.,ion rnd TraniWnm
P-t To- ..d R-rch
L nd de Wt r
Mecha.itiWJ
Li~-tok Itenslio
-To bn ct*blished                                                                                                                                                                                      WrdEn9751






SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 11
NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
Project Orgnizatmon
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND
NATUFRAL RE OURCES
PERMANlENT SECRETARY
DIVISIONOF AAGRIC
AT MAKENI     t                   [ PROJECT MANAGEMENT                          AT FREETOWN
| ~~~UNIT                       |       _ __  __lKa    PROUECr ADVISORY
PROJECT COORD NATING                                                               COMMITTEE
cOMIEE|  PROJECT MANAGERAN
|FIELD OPERATIONS                                                    AND PERSONNE              L      fNCE                         SERve
-|  PERSONNEL                       CONS                         IPTAE
TTRAINING                 LAND DEVELOPMENP
.        |      i  | ~~~~LAND USE                               t      RGSR                    |    POUEIET l               i         CEI 
-  ENTENSION   PLANNING AND
DATA COLETO 
I   FFTAIE..~
16        ! PROUCE
_  MULTIPLICATION         _       CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                                             rN B A.
RESAWrl  .AR-
_  RESEARCH                                                                                                                          Jor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ld B nk-9752






SIERRA LEONE
1VTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL OEVELOPENT PROJECT ll
EASTERN AREA PROJWET
*INISTER OF AlalL.UEIJE aM
NATSAL RESJLWU
PROJECT CONORlftW".G                    =PEC   O  DY
CCAIMITTEE        .                                                                    O |rPPoJFc7  ITA1CI EE
|FIELDPRTON                       0          1            L           AND PERSNE                         FINANCEM                              AL
r  -- -- -- _  _ _   |                                      .                                                                                                 INU SAPSNEE           -  CNS l--  FARM SUPPLY CO- 
|  FARMER  }   [   tXTENSION AND   |          [ LAND DEVELOPMENT |                       REGISTRY               P4rpOcuREMENT   |RDI .                                     4in       EET4II C VF NAY
EXTEN610NAS|TANOEOATARN;                                    PUELIC ELATICNS |STORE6                        |                  MARKETING   l AND
TENSIONLECIO AN                                     |       _Et                                                     I                                           I A
_TD`t .CTRAINING   NLASO EVELPMENt                                      TANSPORT    |                                                                                -'PRDOUCE
-|    IALULT PLICATION              E PCIVIL WORkS                                                                                                          W  CP SECURITY  |
NOTE:
V TO BE FORMED DURING PHASE 11 PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                    WOkD -.9763






SSXX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALNI CA
W ju   N ~~~~~~~~~~O R T H E R N    P R O V I N C E   t
FREE-    ' W              P  R O  V  IN  C   E
XSXX~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ U T'fH E R  
- ' ff :S::' <DU < 






Yele    J       I1f3S'                                         11I5                      11'I00'           ANDORHUN                           10'30'                      10115,
MONGERI f
\ FALLA                             /AHLAI8IUN                                                                          'I
8'15'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~/                                                                                                                 BEU'
PENDEMBU J
;    0    t.-F    {,  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEeRRA
T  M        KENEA                                                                                   SIERRA  LEONE
limi /                                                      I                       / L,   5\   S  t   k-  -Y,   2   t       INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL AND
/, }'     s \,   JRURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
EASTERN AREA PROJECT
430' ¢/7 /-t j; XPOTORU                                               z                                                                     /' / - | /J'' < 7'300'
Do~~~~d.  GORAHUN                                                                                                       J15'~~~~~~~~~~~N 
,~~~'   I          Q~~KABALA
PROJECT HEDQUARTERSNoRTHERNI  PROVINVCE   ~
0    PROJECT AGRICULTURAL FIELD OFFICES                                                 r
ROADS TO BE IMPROVED                   N/tKAMBA   1
________                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAKENi( NORTHERN K
r-< > i   EXISTING MOTORABLE ROADS     715-                        0  M AREA
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT BOUNDARY        0PORT LOKO)        PROAE /
' ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -f                           - ---CHIEFDOM BOUNOIARIES                                                        SE_ADU
I                                         SEEDFARMS                   INTERNATONAL BOUNDARY0 /
OuTHERNV DO~
_________________KILORMINEETTENRS 
0  5  10   15      20     25 75                                    F"        '    >
Th, b d~fi,, h-__A_-_____MILES_                                   7K0
i pl,  Ih,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    Ž N






S'                                 .              .                 0, ;ABALAK
fr      <      -'                                                 0                                                 nshu nbum NORTHERN   PROVINCE
~~'KAMRIA   :::~NORTHERN
~PORTLOKO    ~   AREA   I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  _   K \(O                                               PROJECTHAORTS
OSEFADU
Mok..re                                                 FiA   K                                         --   = CHIEFDOM bOUNDARYASTERN
L~~~~
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T   ;0 <    050 s0p 5,                                                     0MC YA M t fiR A . 
(Dt5t~~~                   A3,| b-j, A-   Mu  a, -R                                                                                          AlCA
i-PlY -d-   5 celp.,,, by h,h                               PROVINVCE'>
J°d B-k - -d i. -ffiI0s,               S      R                        I 
10 VINCE       ,mEASTERN
\.AREA    I/      -
t  A  Ell A  R A RA 1- I31                                                                                    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROJECT -/
6),2PUJEHUN-.-.  z
?JNSERNTEIONAT
)  ~~ono  MRUNA              ~SIERRA  LEONE
'~~  /             -,          INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL AND
0                       ~~~~RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
nb.~            NORTHERN AREA PROJECT
9'00~
o  PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
U DEVELOPMENT CENTER
MAKENI;  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-                          ROADS TO BE IMPROVED
os~~~ngbq.    -   Mo~ba                                               MOTORABLE ROADS
7'      \BOULANDS BOUNDARY
A K A  S A                      PA   I ~~~~~~~~~~~/PROJECT BOUNDARY
MASAB                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHIEFDOM BOUNDARY
BX GURAKA                                  KERRA 
ENN
0      5      10    15      2      5      3,0             i
MILES                               MZ



