OFFICIALLONNME                 3OI-,K
DOCUMENTS          LOAN NUMBERC3Ys2/ KO
Loan Agreement
(Highway Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER c2 9J K0
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       /     Z                , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter dated February 20,
1984, from the Borrower, describing a program of action,
objectives and policies designed to increase efficiency in the
Borrower's highway sector (hereinafter called the Action Plan)
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of that
plan;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of measures to be undertaken       pursuant to, or in
furtherance of, the Action Plan and the Borrower's 1982-1986
Highway Investment Plan through the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions): the words "and Sub-projects" are added after the
words "the Project" in Section 5.03, thereof.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "Sub-project" means any project included under Part A
(i) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 (b), 3.01 (c),
and 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(b)  "1982-1986 Highway Investment Plan" means the highwz
investment plan included in the Borrower's Fifth Five-Year
Economic and Social Development Plan, as such highway investment
plan may be amended from time to time;
(c)  "1OF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(d)  "EPB"  means   the  Economic   Planning  Board   of  the
Borrower;
(e)  "MOC" means   the  Ministry   of  Construction   of  the
Borrower;
(f)  "MCI" means the Ministry of Commerce and Industry of
the Borrower;
(g)  "MOER" means the Ministry of Energy Resources of the
Borrower;
(h)  "MOHA" means the Ministry     of Home Affairs of the
Borrower;
(i)  "MOT" means the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower;
(j)  "Bank of Korea" means the Central Bank of the Republic
of Korea, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 138, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(k)  "KNR" means the Korean National Railroad Administra-
tion, -a central administrative organ under the jurisdiction of
the Borrower's Ministry of Traftsportation, established and
operating pursuant to the Government Organization Law, dated
December 14, 1963, (Law 1506) as amended to the date of this
Agreement, and Presidential Decree No. 5977, dated February 9,
1972, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(1)  "Provincial and County Roads Project" means the project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement dated December 30,
1982 entered into between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(m) "Won" or "W" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
thirty million dollars ($230,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to five hundred seventy three thousand five hundred
sixty-six dollars ($573,566).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for


﻿-4-
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means    the  first  six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿-5-
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall carry out Part A (i) of the Project through
MOC and MOHA; Part A (ii) of the Project through MOHA, MOT and
other Borrower's related agencies, as required; Part A (iii) of
the Project through MOC; Parts B (i) and B (ii) of the Project
through MOT; Part B (iii) of the Project through MOC; Part B (iv)
of the Project through MOC and KNR; Part B (v) of the Project
through MCI, MOER, MOT, and other Borrower's related agencies as
required; Part B (vi) of the Project through MOC and MOHA; Part C
(i) of the Project through MOC, MCI, MOER and MOT; Part C (ii) of
the Project through MOC and MOHA; and Part C (iii) of the Project
through MOC, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall present to the Bank, for its
approval, each Sub-project together with the following documenta-
tion, which documentation shall be prepared in accordance with
road engineering, financial and economic practices satisfactory
to the Bank:
(i) detailed engineering, including cost estimates in
foreign and local currencies, contract drawings,
and specifications and tender documents;
(ii) a final feasibility study;
(iii) an implementation schedule and estimated disburse-
ment schedule; and
(iv) such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Sub-pro-
ject shall:
(i) be evaluated and selected following a methodology
satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) be carried out in accordance with the detailed
engineering, contract drawings, specifications and
tender documents, and implementation schedule


﻿- 6 -
approved for each Sub-project pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section; and
(iii) have an economic rate of return of at least twelve
per cent (12%) calculated in accordance with a
method satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) Without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under this Agreement, the Bank
may postpone consideration of any Sub-project submitted for its
approval if the Borrower shall not, in the opinion of the Bank,
have made satisfactory progress in carrying out the Action Plan
or if the Borrower is in default in performing any obligation
under the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of the Project the Borrower shall employ, or shall cause
its departments and agencies responsible for the carrying out of
the Project or any Part thereof to employ, consultants and
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants
to be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the
findings and recommendations of the studies under Parts B (i), B
(ii) and B (iii) of the Project, not later than April 30, 1985,
November 30, 1985 and January 31, 1985, respectively; and
(b) exchange views with the Bank on the findings and recom-
mendations of the studies under Parts B (i), B (ii) and B (iii)
of the Project, not later than July 30, 1985, February 28, 1986,
and April 30, 1985, respectively, and, thereafter, implement such
recommendations agreeable to the Borrower and the Bank in a
manner and pursuant to timetables satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank.
(c) for those recommendations for which no agreement has
been reached pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, advise
the Bank with respect to the actions to be undertaken for their
future implementation.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement and pursuant to the Action Plan,
the Borrower has entrusted EPB with the overall responsibility of
implementing the Action Plan, and, to that end, the Borrower
shall take all action as shall be necessary to enable EPB to
carry out such responsibility.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Action Plan; the first such
exchange of views, shall take place no later than November 30,
1984, or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower   shall  cause  all  goods   and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes od' the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly  upon  their  preparation, the    plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications        thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿- 8 -
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph
(b)(iii) of this Section, the Borrower shall, through EPB,
commencing June 30, 1984, and thereafter on a quarterly basis,
furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, reports of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Action Plan.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective  obligations   under  the   Loan  Agreement,   and  the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project; and
(b) furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1984, or such other date as the Bank may agree, and taking into
account the results and recommendations of the study undertaken
under Part E (i) of the Provincial and County Roads Project, take
all action as shall be necessary to ensure the adequate imple-
mentation of the road safety program under Part A (ii) of the
Project, which implementation shall commence not later than
February 28, 1985.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, in a manner and pursuant
to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, implement the plan


﻿-9-
provided for in Section 3.07 (a) of the Loan Agreement dated
December 30, 1982, entered into between the Borrower and the Bank
for purposes of the Provincial and County Roads Project, which
plan shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.11.    The provisions of Section 3.10 of       this
Agreement supercede the provisions of Section 3.07 (b) of the
Loan Agreement dated December 30, 1982, entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank for purposes of the Provincial and County
Roads Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, prior to the commencement
of construction for the widening of the 91 Km section Jeonju-
Gwangju Expressway, furnish to the Bank for its review and com-
ments, the results and recommendations of the feasibility study
carried out by the Borrower's Korean Highway Corporation.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security .or the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
the Bank of Korea or any institution performing the functions of
a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance   with   consistently   maintained   sound   accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall, or shall cause to: (i) have the
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles   consistently   applied,   by   independent   auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause all of its national, provincial and county roads
to be adequately maintained, and cause all necessary repairs
thereof  to   be  made,   all  in   accordance  with   appropriate
engineering practices, and, to this end, without any limitation,
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the


﻿- 11 -
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) cause all equipment for road maintenance and workshops
of MOHA and MOC to be adequately maintained and cause all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance
with appropriate engineering and management practices;
(c) cause the buildings to be constructed under the Pro-
ject, as well as the vehicles to be purchased under the Project,
to be adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering and management practices.
Section 4.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Sec-
tions 3.01 (a), 3.01 (b  (iii) and 4.03 (a) of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall, with respect to MOC, by July 30 of each year,
.,commencing on July 30, 1984 and thereafter, and with respect to
MOHA, by November 15 of each year, commencing on November 15,
1984, and, thereafter, furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments, the proposed amounts to be made available to MOC and
MOHA during the next following Fiscal Year, for purposes of
adequately maintaining the Borrower's national, provincial and
county roads, as the case may be, and, thereafter, taking into
account the Bank's comments, if any, the Borrower shall take such
actions as may be required to ensure that such amounts shall be
available to MOC and MOHA for such purposes during such Fiscal
Year. Provided, however, that for purposes of this Section, the
term "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
the necessary measures, acceptable to the Bank, to ensure that
the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its national,
provincial and county roads shall not exceed limits consistent
with the design standard of such roads.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the Action Plan or a
significant part thereof will be carried out.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower has employed, pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the consultants required
for carrying out Parts B (i) and B (iii) of the Project; and
(b) that the Borrower has, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, commenced the implementation of the plan referred to in
Section 3.10 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date        o    a'l     , 1984 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:                     Telex:
MOF                               K 23243
Seoul


﻿- 13 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /5  C
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By (5'/         A
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:
(a) under Part A        190,000,000        50%
of the Pro-
ject
(b) supervision           3,300,000        100%
under Part C
(iii) of the
Project
(2) Equipment for road         7,800,000        100% of foreign
maintenance and                            expenditures
road safety                                and 100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Consultants'               4,300,000        100%
services, tech-
nical assis-
tance and train-
ing for Parts
B (iv), B (vi),
C (i) and C (iii)
of the Project
(4) Fee                          573,566        Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(5) Unallocated               24,026,434        100%
TOTAL         230,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the a,mount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be concistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) expenditures made
prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made for
expenditures under Category 1 for a Sub-project, unless such
Sub-project has been approved by the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 16 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no ex-
penditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cay,cel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been elig-
ible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
increasing the economic efficiency of its highway sector by
implementing the measures outlined in the Action Plan.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(i) Improvement (including paving) of particular national,
provincial and county roads, or portions thereof.
(ii) Implementation of a program to improve road safety.
(iii) Implementation of a program aimed at improving the
Borrower's maintenance management of its national paved
road network, including the acquisition, utilization
and   maintenance    of   maintenance   equipment    and
facilities.
Part B:
(i) A study of the economic impact of regulations in the
trucking industry.
(ii) A study of road and intermodal freight terminals.
(iii) A study of road user charges.
(iv) Feasibility   and  engineering   studies  on  multi-modal
projects to be implemented in the Seoul-Busan Corridor
and in the Gyonggi Regional Transport Area.
(v) Studies   on   energy  conservation  on   the  Borrower's
transport sector.
(vi) Feasibility and engineering studies for       the future
development of the Borrower's road network.
Part C:
Provision of technical assistance and training for:
(i) implementing the Action Plan;


﻿- 18 -
(ii) the construction-supervision of the Sub-projects; and
(iii) implementing the program under Part A (iii) of the
Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1987
through   November 1, 1998                  9,585,000
On May 1, 1999                                    9,545,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 22 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Korea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information requir2d to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Korea
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Korea equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant   to the bids, of     the goods. Such    lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 23 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C,
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after


﻿- 24 -
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of I11 01A 98   .
FOR SECRETARY


