SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER        53 SL
OffICIAL
DOCUMENS
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Integrated Agricultural Development Project II)
between
SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated             30          , 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       A"X 30                , 1980, between
SIERRA LEONE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCI-
ATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action Account established
with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN
ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested of the Administrator assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2, 1978
referred to above;
(C) by an agreement dated July 2, 1975 (hereinafter called
the IDA Credit Agreement) IDA agreed to make a development credit
(hereinafter called the IDA Credit) to the Borrower in an aggre-
gate principal amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in
financing the Integrated Agricultural Development Project II on
the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(D) by an agreement dated July 2, 1975 (hereinafter called
the Bank Loan Agreement) the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (hereinafter called the Bank) agreed to make a
loan (hereinafter called the Bank Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in
financing the Integrated Agricultural Development Project II on
the terms and conditions therein set forth;
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Coiditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment;


﻿-3-
(c) "EAPMU" means the project unit referred to in Section
3.03 (i) of this Agreement;
(d) "NAPMU" means the project unit referred to in Section
3.03 (ii) of this Agreement;
(e) "PESU" means the project evaluation and services unit
referred to in Section 3.03 (iii) of this Agreement;
(f) "FFC" means the Farmer Finance Company included in
Part B (2) (d) of the Project; and
(g) "Prior Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement, 323 SL, dated June 30, 1972, between the Borrower
and IDA, as amended by the IDA Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
Two million three
hundred eleven
thousand                 Belgian francs       (BF2,311,000);
Two hundred eighty-
eight thousand           Danish kroner          (DK288,000);
One million one
hundred eleven
thousand                 Deutsche marks       (DM1,111,000);
One million one
hundred seventy-
four thousand            French francs        (FF1,174,000);
Two thousand six
hundred                  Irish pounds            (IrE2,600);
One hundred thirty-
six million two
hundred forty
thousand                 Italian lire      (ItLl36,240,000);


﻿-4-
Seventy-three thou-
sand                   Luxembourg francs          (LF73,000);
Three hundred seven
thousand               Netherlands guilders    (Dfl 307,000);
and
Two hundred eighty
three thousand one
hundred                Pounds sterling            (E283,100).
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures: (i) in the currency of the Borrower; or (ii) for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
International Development Association and could be the recipient
of a special action credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admini-
strator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-5-
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, or in
another currency selected by the Administrator in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, after their
conversion into such currency on the basis of exchange rates
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.05 of
the General Conditions.
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1990 and
ending November 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional cur-
rency amounts.


﻿-6-
(c) If withdrawal shal have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, financial, administrative and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of projects in its agricultural sector, the Borrower shall
employ in its Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in carrying out the
Project: (i) maintain within its Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry, as the project unit for Part B of the Project, the
project unit referred to in Section 3.04 of the Prior Credit
Agreement with such responsibilities, powers and staff as are
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) maintain within
its Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry as the project unit for


﻿- 7 -
Part A of the Project a second project unit with such responsibi-
lities, powers and staff as are specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; (iii) maintain within its Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry the project evaluation and services unit included in Part
C (1) of the Project with such responsibilities, powers and staff
as are specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (iv) main-
tain project coordinating committees, with composition and func-
tions to be agreed between the Borrower and the Administrator, to
advise NAPMU and EAPMU respectively on the planning and imple-
mentation of Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall continue to employ, upon
terms and conditions and with qualifications satisfactory to the
Administrator: (i) the Project Manager, Accountant, Commercial
Officer, Extension and Training Officer, Conservation and Land
Development Officer, Livestock Officer and Construction Engineer
of NAPMU; (ii) the Project Manager, Accountant, Commercial
Officer, Extension and Training Officer and Conservation Land
Development Officer of EAPMU; (iii) the Financial Controller and
Commercial Services Officer of PESU; and (iv) the General Manager
of the Borrower's Daru Oil Palm Company.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall continue to employ for the
purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, eight qualified
professional officers or experienced technical officers and thirty
agricultural field assistants.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall
reasonably request.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Administrator's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Administrator at regular intervals all such information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Administrator of their respective obligations under the
'pecial Action Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Special Action Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cauce to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Administrator, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Administrator that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,


﻿- 9 -
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NAPMU, EAPMU, PESU and FFC
to: (i) have their respective accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Administrator
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their
respective financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the reports of such audits by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other
information concerning their respective accounts and financial
statements and the audits thereof as the Administrator shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the IDA Credit or Bank Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, -or
(ii) the IDA Credit or Bank Loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section suiall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the IDA Credit Agreement or Bank Loan Agreement;
and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date _ik%wau t23 &i       is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Special Action Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or such
other person or persons appointed by such Minister in writing is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Ministry of Finance
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:
MINFIN
Freetown


﻿- 11 -
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SIERRA LEONE
By          I*/l4 tot&LL~  7Ltna u
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By //(J~r6    ~j~~bf7
/WuA Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit            % of
Allocated (Expressed         Expenditures
Category          in Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, heavy           214,000
plant and equip-
ment
(a) directly                                   100% of for-
imported                                  eign expendi-
tures
(b) imported                                   87%
but locally
procured
(2) Small equipment            50,000
and spare parts
(a) directly                                  100% of for-
imported                                  eign expendi-
tures
(b) imported but                               70%
locally
procured
(3) Fertilizer                348,000               100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(4) Civil works for         1,000,000               70%
road construc-
tion


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Special Action Credit        % of
Allocated (Expressed     Expenditures
Category           in Dollar Equivalents)    to be Financed
(5) Civil works                 333,000          70%
other than
those included
in Category (4),
local staff and
support services,
and vehicles and
plant operation
(6) Farm inputs other            55,000          100% oi foreign
than fertilizer-,                           expenditures or
including seeds,                             70%
planting mate-
rials, pesti-
cides, fungi-
cides, herbicides,
tools, hired
labor, spraying
machines and
drugs
TOTAL           2,000,000
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of, and for goods
produced in or services supplied from: (i) any of the Member
States; and (ii) any developing country, other than the Borrower,
which is a member of the International Development Association and
could be the recipient of a Special Action Credit, as determined
by the Administrator.


﻿- 14 -
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (i)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or (ii) expendi-
tures in respect of Category (4) prior to agreement being reached
between the Borrower and the Administrator on the design standards
for and classification of the roads to be constructed and included
in the Project.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such


﻿- 15 -
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will be carried out in two areas, namely the
northern area centered on Makeni in the northern province of the
Borrower, covering about 1,300 square miles with about 14,000
farming families, and the eastern area centered on Kenema in the
eastern province of the Borrower, covering about 4,300 square
miles and about 65,000 farming families. The Project consists of
the following parts:
Part A
In the northern area:
1.   Civil Works
(a) Construction and upgrading of about 225 miles of feeder
and crop extraction roads;
(b) construction of 300 village wells;
(c) establishment of 15 market centers;
(d) construction of a training center; and
(e) construction of houses, stores and offices.
2.   Farm and Crop Development
(a) Provision of extension and related farm services,
including operational staff and supporting vehicles and equipment;
(b) Provision of short- and medium-term credit upon terms
and conditions described in Schedule 6 to this Agreement through a
revolving credit fund for labor, pesticides, fertilizers, and
improved planting material to increase the production of about
6,000 acres of inland swamp rice, about 25,000 acres of upland
rice, and about 10,000 acres of groundnuts; and
(c) Development of a seed multiplication farm.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Investigations and Research
(a) Investigation of the potential for future livestock
development and establishment of three cattle farms; and
(b) Researching methods of increasing wood fuel production
for tobacco farmers.
Part B
In the eastern area:
1.   Civil Works
(a) Establishment of 12 market centers;
(b) Construction of houses, stores and offices; and
(c) Construction and upgrading of about 265 miles of feeder
and crop extraction roads.
2.   Farm and Crop Development
(a) Expansion of extension and related farm services includ-
ing operational staff and supporting vehicles and equipment;
(b) Provision of short-, medium- and long-term credit
upon terms and conditions described in Schedule 6 to this Agree-
ment for labor, pesticides, fertilizers and improved planting
material to increase the production of about 1,800 acres of inland
swamp rice and up to about 36,000 acres of upland rice, to develop
about 4,200 acres of inland swamp for rice production, and to
establish about 1,000 acres of cocoa and about 1,600 acres of oil
palm;
(c) Continued development and improvement of seed multipli-
cation farms; and
(d) Establishment of a Farmer Finance Company to assume
the activities of the existing revolving credit fund.
Part C
Central Support Services:
1.   Establishment of and staffing of a project evaluation and
services unit to assist the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and


﻿- 18 -
Forestry in managing EAPMU, NAPMU and FFC and the Daru Oil Palm
Company.
2.   Assistance in the preparation of projects by the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry by providing consultants.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement and except as provided in Part D
and F hereof, goods and civil works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Adminis-
trator shall reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 20 -
Sierra Leone may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Sierra Leone if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and tiLe Admin-
istrator that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Sierra Leone equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% "-f the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 21 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Categories (4) and (5) of the table set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this Sched-
ule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
detErmine whether, according to the classification established by
the 'orrower and accepted by the Administrator, a particular firm
or g,oup of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D. Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Individual contracts not exceeding the equivalent of
$24,000 and not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of
$200,000, for vehicles, plant, equipment, fertilizer, pesticides,
drugs and tools shall be let on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Administrator. Contracts for other farm inputs such as


﻿- 22 -
spraying machines and planting materials, shall be let through
competitive bidding advertised locally.
(b) Hired labor shall be procured through procedures accept-
able to the Administrator.
(c) Contracts for the construction of buildings, houses and
the purchase of construction materials and furnishings shall be
let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Administrator.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts referred to in paragraph 1 of
Section A of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Admini-
strator shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 23 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other inform-
ation as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Adminis-
trator shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines of this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
1.   Construction of roads shall be carried out by force account
by the Borrower or by agreement by an agent acceptable to the
Administrator.
2.   Construction of wells shall be by villagers using materials
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
EAPMU and NAPMU
A.   EAPMU
1.   EAPMU shall consist of:
(a) the Project Manager who shall have overall responsi-
bility for the direction and coordination of the work of EAPMU and
shall report directly to the Permanent Secretary of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources;
(b) the Accountant;
(c) the Commercial Officer;
(d) the Extension and Training Officer;
(e) the Conservation and Land Development Officer; and
(f) such supporting staff as shall be necessary for the
efficient operation of EAPMU.
2.   EAPMU shall be responsible, and have the necessary powers,
for carrying out Part B of the Project. The head office of
EAPMU shall be located at Kenema.
B.   NAPMU
1.   NAPMU shall consist of:
(a) the Project Manager who shall have overall responsi-
bility for the direction and coordination of the work of NAPMU and
shall report directly to the Permanent Secretary of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry;
(b) the Accountant;
(c) the Commercial Officer;
(d) the Extension and Training Officer;
(e) the Conservation and Land Development Officer;


﻿- 25 -
(f) the Livestock Officer;
(g) the Construction Engineer; and
(h) such supporting staff as shall be necessary for the
efficient operation of NAPMU.
3.   NAPMU shall be responsible, and have the necessary powers,
for carrying out Part A of the Project.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
PESU
1.   PESU shall consist of:
(a) the Financial Controller;
(b) the Commercial Services Officer;
(c) the Accountant; and
(d) the Projects Economist.
2.   PESU would be responsible to the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry of the Borrower and would
have the following functions:
(a) undertaking continuous project evaluation;
(b) providing EAPMU, NAPMU and other project management
units with information relevant to decision making;
(c) establishing priorities for new projects within the
agricultural sector;
(d) forward planning;
(e) training and assisting the staff of EAPMU, NAPMU and
other project management units in appropriate accounting, audit-
ing, stores and procurement procedures;
(f) processing reimbursement claims;
(g) auditing EAPMU, NAPMU and other project management
units;
(h) establishing suitable credit systems for project
farmers;
(i) developing appropriate farm input supply systems;
and


﻿- 27 -
(j) carrying out any other functions as may be assigned to
it by the Borrower.
3.   The Financial Controller would be head of PESU and would be a
member of the project advisory committee of the Borrower.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions for Extension of Credit
Extension of credit by the Borrower under Part A (2) (b)
and Part B (2) (b) of the Project shall be in accordance with the
following terms and conditions:
(a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
interest rates for development loans shall be eight per cent (8%)
per annum and for seasonal loans a fixed charge of ten per cent
(10%) shall be made.
(b) Amortization of the principal amount lent by way of
development loans shall be in the case of oil palm over a term of
thirteen years including four years of grace, in the case of cocoa
over a term of twelve years including four years of grace, and in
the case of swamp rice over a term of five years.
(c) Interest payments shall be capitalized in the case
of development loans for oil palm and cocoa.
(d) Development loans shall be made available for the
establishment of no more than ten acres of oil palm, no more than
four acres of cocoa and no more than about three acres of swamp
rice, except that in the case of such loans for the establishment
of swamp rice, such loans may be made in respect of a reasonably
greater area than three acres on condition that credit is extended
to a group of farmers.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  1-30     day of
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


