CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 568 SL
Development Credit
Agreement
(Integrated Agricultural Development Project II)
BETWEEN
SIERRA LEONE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 2, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 568 SL
Development Credit
Agreement
(Integrated Agricultural Development Project II)
BETWEEN
SIERRA LEONE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 2, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1975, between SIERRA LEONE (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP1MENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000) (hereicafter called the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15., 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:


﻿4
"9. The term 'Project' means the project or program for which the
Credit is granted, as described in the Development Credit Agreement and
as the description thereof shall be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Bank.";
(b)   Section 6.02(b) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation
under the Loan Agreement (as such terms are defined in the Development
Credit Agreement) or the Development Credit Agreement."; and
(c)   Section 7.01(c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower inder the Loan Agreement (as such term is
defined in the Development Credit Agreement) or the Development Credit
Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association or the Bank to the
Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Loan Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Prior Credit Agreement" means the Credit Agreement, 323 SL, dated
June 30, 1972, between the Borrower and the Association;
(e)   "EAPMU" means the project unit referred to in Section 3.03(i) of
this Agreement;


﻿5
(f)   "NAPMU" means the project unit referred to in Section 3.03(ii) of
this Agreement;
(g)   "PESU" means the project evaluation and services unit referred to in
Section 3.03(iii) of this Agreement;
(h)   "FFC" means the farmer finance company included in Part B(2)(d)
of the Project; and
(i)   Thc letters "Le" mean Leone in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE I
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1980 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September I in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing
September 1, 1985, and ending March 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, financial,
administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of projects
in its agricultural sector, the Borrower shall employ in its Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
c6nditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, in carrying out the Project, (i) maintain within its Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources, as the project unit for Part B of the Project,
the project unit referred to in Section 3.04 of the Prior Credit Agreement with
such responsibilities, powers and staff as are specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; (ii) establish and maintain within its Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources as the project unit for Part A of the Project a second project unit with
such responsibilities, powers and staff as are specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; (iii) establish and maintain within its Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources the project evaluation and services unit included in Part C(1)
of the Project with such responsibilities, powers and staff as are specified in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (iv) .ot later than three months after the
Effective Date of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association, establish and maintain project coordinating
committees, with composition and functions to be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, to advise NAPMU and EAPMU respectively on the planning
and implementation of Parts A and B of the Project.


﻿7
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall appoint, upon terms and conditions and
with qualifications satisfactory to the Association (i) the Project Manager,
Accountant, Commercial Officer, Extension and Training Officer, Conservation and
Land Development Officer, Livestock Officer and Construction Engineer of
NAPMU; (ii) the Project Manager, Accountant, Commercial Officer, Extension and
Training Officer and Conservation Land Development Officer of EAPMU; (iii) the
Financial Controller and Commercial Services Officer of PESU and (iv) the General
Manager of the Borrower's Daru Oil Palm Company.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not later than six months after the Effective
Date of this Agreement or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, appoint for the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project,
eight qualified professional officers or experienced technical officers and thirty
agricultural field assistants.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1975 or such
other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, establish
the farmer finance company referred to in Part B(2)(d) of the Project with
memorandum and articles of association, board of directors, operational procedures
and staff composition as shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than December 1, 1975 or such
other date as may be agreed by the Association. make arrangements satisfactory
to the Association for the construction and improvement of roads in the area
included in Part B of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than September 15, 1975,
establish the Daru Oil Palm Company with memorandum and articles of association
acceptable to the Association. Such memorandum and articles of association shall
include a pricing formula acceptable to the Association for the purchase of fresh
fruit bunches by such company from farmers.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿8
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NAPMU, EAPMU, PESU and FFC to: (i)
have their respective accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of their respective financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish


﻿9
to the Association such other information concerning their respective accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1976 or such
other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, furnish
to the Association for review proposals for an agricultural research policy for the
territory of the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes (i) that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower will reduce by thirty per cent (30%) the
subsidies for the purchase of fertilizer to farmers participating in the Project and
(ii) not later than March 31, 1976 or such other date as may be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association, to furnish to the Association proposals for the
reduction or removal of the Borrower's subsidies related to the financing of
agricultural inputs and to consult with the Association with a view to implementing
such proposals.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause its Sierra Leone Produce Marketing
Board to gazette groundnuts as a statutory crop for the purposes of the Borrower's
Produce Marketing Board Act, prepare a price formula for groundnuts satisfactory
to the Association and, not later than December 31, 1975 or such other date
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, establish and publish
a minimum price for groundnuts.
ARTICLE V
Amendment of Prior Credit Agreement
Section 5.0 1. The Prior Credit Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)   Paragraph  (e) of Section    1.02 is deleted   and paragraph (f) is
re-numbered (c).
(b)   The words ", as soon as said palm oil mill shall have been transferred
to ADA as specified in Section 3,05(c)(iv) of this Agreement" in Section 3.0 1(b)(i)
are deleted.
(c)   Section 3.04 is amended to read as follows:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, in carrying out the Project, establish and maintain within


﻿10
its Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, a project unit, with such
responsibilities, powers and staff as are specified in Schedule 4 to the
Development Credit Agreement (Second Integrated Agricultural Development
Project) dated , 1975, between the Borrower and the
Association."
(d)   Section 3.05 is deleted.
(e)   The words ", or shall cause ADA to" in Section 3.07(b) and 3.08
are deleted.
(f)   Sections 3.06, 3.07 and 3.08 are re-numbered 3.05, 3.06 and 3.07
respectively.
(g)   The words "and of ADA" in the last line of Section 4.01(a), in the
third line of Section 4.0 1(b) and in the penultimate line of Section 4.01(b) are
deleted.
(h)   Section 4.02 is deleted.
(i)   Section 4.03(c) is deleted.
(j)   The words ", including a draft' agreement to be entered into by SLPMB
and ADA, once established, setting up millgate pricing arrangements and a guarantee
that SLPMB will purchase all palm oil produced as a result of the Project" in
Section 4.04(b)(ii) are deleted.
(k)   Section 4.03 and 4.04 are re-numbered 4.02 and 4.03 respectively.
(1)   The words ", of ADA" in Sections 5.01(a) and 5.02(a) are deleted.
(m)   Sections 7.02 and 7.03 ar- deleted.
(n)   The first column of Category V of the table in paragraph I of Schedule
I is amended to read "Recruiting and services of expatriate staff and consultants".
(o)   Part V of Schedule 2 is deleted.
(p)   The final sentence of paragraph I of Schedule 4 is deleted.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement other than the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement have
been fulfilled;
(b)   that bank accounts for PESU and NAPMU have been established with
initial payments of Le20,000 and LelOO,000 respectively and that procedures
satisfactory to the Association to ensure that adequate funds are avai ,.te at all
times in such accounts have been agreed between the Borrower and tl- bankers
for NAPMU, EAPMU and PESU;
(c)   that NAPMU has been established and EAPMU has been reorganized
pursuant t) Section 3.03(i) of this Agreement; and
(d)   that the Project Manager and Accountant of NAPMU have been
appointed with qualifications and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association and the Financial Controller of PESU has been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date September 30, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01(b) and
4.03(i) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or such other person
or persons appointed by such Minister in writing is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿12
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Ministry of Finance
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:
MINFIN
Freetown
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
SIERRA LEONE
By /s/ Philip Palmer
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ E. Peter Wright
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Af)ica


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1. The thble below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Vehicles, heavy                  900,000
plant and equip-
ment
(a)   directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                     expenditures
(b)  imported but                                  87%
locally pro-
cured
(2)   Fertilizer                       500,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(3)   Internationally                 1,400,000          100% of foreign
recruited staff                                    expenditures
and consultants'
services
(4)   Civil works, local             3,800,000          70%
staff and support
services, and
vehicles and plant
operation


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)   Farm inputs other              1,000,000          70%
than fertilizer, in-
including seeds, plant-
ing materials, pesti-
cides, fungicides,
herbicides, tools,
hired labor and spray-
ing machines
(6)   Una!!ocated                    2,400,000
TOTAL         10,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association and the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which
shall affect the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the Association
or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3) and (4) on account
of expenditures incurred after March 3 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $100,000.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn


﻿15
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Association and the Bank have, or after full withdrawal of the entire amount
of the Credit, the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit
and of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association and
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit and of the Loan as in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will be carried out in two areas, namely the northern area
centered on Makeni in the northern province of the Borrower, covering about 1,300
square miles with about 14,000 farming families, and the eastern area centered
on Kenema in the eastern province of the Borrower, covering about 4,300 square
miles and about 65,000 farming families. The Project consists of the following
parts:
Part A
In the northern area:
(1)   Civil Works
(a)   Construction of about 20 miles and upgrading of about 280 miles
of crop extraction roads;
(b)   Construction of 200 village wells;
(c)   Establishment of five market centers;
(d)   Construction of a training center; and
(e)   Construction of houses, stores and offices.
(2)   Farm and Crop Development
(a)   Provision of extension and related farm   services, including
operational staff and supporting vehicles and equipment;
(b)   Provision of short- and medium-term  credit upon terms and
conditions described in Schedule 6 to this Agreement through
a revolving credit fund for labor, pesticides, fertilizers, and
improved planting material to increase the production of about
6,000 acres of inland swamp rice, about 25,000 acres of upland
rice, and about 10,000 acres of groundnuts; and
(c)   Development of a seed multiplication farm.


﻿17
(3)   Investigations and Research
(a)   Investigation of the potential for future livestock development
and establishment of three cattle farms; and
(b)   Researching methods of increasing wood fuel production for
tobacco farmers.
Part B
In the eastern area;
(1)   Civil Works
(a)   Establishment of 12 market centers; and
(b)   Construction of houses, stores and offices.
(2)   Farm and Crop Development
(a)   Expansion of extension and related farm   services including
operational staff and supporting vehicles and equipment;
(b)   Provision of short-, medium- and long-term credit upon terms
and conditions described in Schedule 6 to this Agreement for
labor, pesticides, fertilizers and improved planting material to
increase the production of about 1,800 acres of inland swamp
rice and up to about 36,000 acres of upland rice, to develop
about 4,200 acres of inland swamp for rice production, and to
establish about 1,000 acres of cocoa and about 1,600 acres of
oil palm;
(c)   Continued development and improvement of seed multiplication
farms; and
(d)   Establishment of a Farmer Finance Company to assume the
activities of the existing revolving credit fund.


﻿18
Part C
Central Support Services:
(1)   Establishment of and staffing of a project evaluation and services unit
to assist the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources in managing
EAPMU, NAPMU and FFC and the Daru Oil Palm Company.
(2)   Assistance in the preparation of projects by the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources by providing consultants.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a) Individual contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $24,000 and not
exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $200,000 for vehicles, plant,
equipment, fertilizer, pesticides and tools shall be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association. Contracts for other farm inputs such as spraying machines and planting
materials, shall be let through competitive bidding advertised locally.
(b)   Hired labor, staff, vehicle maintenance and operation and general
services shall be procured through procedures acceptable to the Association.
(c)   Contracts for the construction of buildings, houses and the purchase
of construction materials and furnishings shall be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded: and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Sierra Leone may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish


﻿20
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Sierra Leone if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Sierra Leone equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Sierra
Leone.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)  All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
1.   Construction of roads shall be carried out by force account of the Borrower.
2.    Construction of wells shall be by villagers using materials financed by the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan.


﻿21
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts referred to in paragraph 1 of Section A of
this Schedule:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the
bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit and
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2(a) and (c) of Section
A of this Schedule to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and Loan
and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit and


﻿22
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with, where appropriate, the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
EAPMU and NAPMU
A.    EAPMU
1. EAPMU shall consist of:
(a)   the Project Manager who shall have over-all responsibility for the
direction and coordination of the work of EAPMU and shall report directly to
the Permanent Secretary of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources;
(b)   the Accountant;
(c)   the Commercial Officer;
(d)   the Extension and Training Officer;
(e)   the Conservation and Land Development Officer; and
(f)   such supporting staff as shall be necessary for the efficient operation
of EAPMU.
2.    EAPMU shall be responsible, and have the necessary powers, for carrying
out Part B of the Project. The head office of EAPMU shall be located at Kenema.
B.   NAPMU
1.   NAPMU shall consist of:
(a)   the Project Manager who shall have over-all responsibility for the
direction and coordination of the work of NAPMU and shall report directly to
the Permanent Secretary of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources;
(b)   the Accountant;
(c)   the Commercial Officer;
(d)   the Extension and Training Officer;


﻿24
(e)   the Conservation and Land Development Officer;
(f)   the Livestock Officer;
(g)   the Construction Engineer; and
(h)   such supporting staff as shall be necessary for the efficient operation
of NAPMU.
3.    NAPMU shall be responsible, and have the necessary powers, for carrying
out Part A of the Project.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 5
PESU
1.   PESU shall consist of:
(a)   the Financial Controller;
(b)   the Commercial Services Officer;
(c)   the Accountant; and
(d)   the Projects Economist.
2.   The PESU would be responsible to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the Borrower and would have the following
functions:
(a)   undertaking continuous project evaluation;
(b)   providing EAPMU, NAPMU and other project management units with
information relevant to decision making;
(c)   establishing priorities for new projects within the agricultural sector;
(d)   forward planning;
(e)   training and assisting the staff of EAPMU, NAPMU and other project
management units in appropriate accounting, auditing, stores and procurement
procedures;
(f)   processing reimbursement claims;
(g)   auditing EAPMU, NAPMU and other project management units;
(h)   establishing suitable credit systems for project farmers;
(i)   developing appropriate farm input supply systems; and
(j) carrying out any other functions as may be assigned to it by the
Borrower.
3.   The Financial Controller would be head of PESU and would be a member
of the project advisory committee of the Borrower.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions for Extension of Credit
Extension of credit by the Borrower under Part A(2)(b) and Part B(2)(b)
of the Project shall be in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
(a)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, interest rates for
development loans shall be eight per cent (8%) per annum and for seasonal loans
a fixed charge of ten per cent (10%) shall be made.
(b)   Amortization of the principal amount lent by way of development
loans shall be in the case of oil palm over a term of thirteen years including four
years of grace, in the case of cocoa over a term of twelve years including four
years of grace, and in the case of swamp rice over a term of five years.
(c)   Interest payments shall be capitalized in the case of development loans
for oil palm and cocoa.
(d)   Development loans shall be made available for the establishment of
no more than ten acres of oil palm, no more than four acres of cocoa and no
more than about three acres of swamp rice, except than in the case of such loans
for the establishment of swamp rice, such loans may be made in respect of a
reasonably greater area than three acres on condition that credit is extended to
a group of farmers.


