Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15500-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
CENTRAL INDONESIA
JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
MAY 21, 1996
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March, 1996)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00   = Rp 2,331
Rp I million = US$429
Academic Year
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPENAS             National Development Planning Board
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CPCU                 Central Program Coordination Unit, Jakarta
DIII                 Three-Year Post-Secondary Diploma Course
DGPSE                Directorate-General of Primary and Secondary Education, MOEC
DIKMENUM             MOEC Secondary Education Directorate
DIP                  Development Budget
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GOI                  Government of Indonesia
HDD                  Human Development Department, World Bank
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
JSS                  Junior Secondary School
MIS                  Management Information System
MGMP                 Teacher Association
MOEC                 Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MORA                 Ministry of Religious Affairs
MTs                  Muslim Junior Secondary School (Madrasah Tsanawiyah)
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NEM                  National Examination
NIC                  Newly Industrialized Country
NTT                  Nusa Tenggara Timur
OECF                 Overseas Economic Corporation Fund
OED                  Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank
PPIU                 Provincial Project Implementation Unit
PKG/SPKG             Inservice and Onservice Teacher Training Programs
REPELITA             Five-Year Development Plan
RSI                  Resident Mission in Indonesia
SD/MI                Primary Schools (under MOEC/MORA)
SLTP/SMP             General Junior Secondary School
SOE                  Statements of Expenditures
SUSENAS              National Socioeconomic Survey



i
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency:          Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education
(DGPSE), Ministry of Education and Culture
Beneficiaries:                School children and out-of-school youth , particularly those
in rural communities and girls, in the Provinces of Central
Java, Yogyakarta, Central Kalimantan, and West
Kalimantan.
Poverty Category:             Program of Targeted Interventions:  the project would
target scholarships, contract teachers, new and alternative
schools, and at least 60 percent of quality interventions to
poor rural areas and girls
Amount:                       US$104.0 million equivalent
Terms:                        Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for currency pool
loans
Commitment Fee:               0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:               See Table 4.3
Economic Rate of Return:      The economic rate of return for the project investment
ranges from 15 to 18 percent by province. High returns
were found for both quality and access components.
Returns on quality enhancements were generally higher
than for expansion of access, particularly in the Kalimantan
provinces.
Staff Appraisal Report:      No. 15500-fND
Project Identification Number:  ID-PE-3987
Map:                         IBRD No. 27960






ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................................i
1. EDUCATION ISSUES AND STRATEGY   .                           .
A. Background and Introduction                          .I
B. Sector Issues and National Initiatives                  .4
C. Junior Secondary Education in the Provinces                 .8
2. GOVERNMENT AND BANK STRATEGY AND LESSONS LEARNED .. 17
A. Government Strategy .17
B. Lessons Learned .17
C. Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement                 .1 9
3. THE PROJECT   ..22
A. Project Objectives .22
B. Performance Indicators and Critical Success Factors .22
C. Project Description .22
D. Project Economic Analysis .30
E. Project Management and Implementation .32
F. Monitoring and Evaluation .36
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING    .                          .39
A. Project Costs .39
B. Financing .44
C. Procurement .44
D. Disbursements .50
E. Accounts and Audits .51
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..52
A. Benefits .52
B. Risks .53
C. Sustainability .54
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .                        ........................................ 57
A. Agreements Reached .............................................             57
B. Recommendation .............................................                 58
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia in April 1996,
comprising Donald Hamilton (mission leader), Sverrir Sigurdsson and Peter Morrison. The report also
drew on proposals prepared by the central and provincial MOEC and inputs from PHRD-funded consultants
(see Annex 13). Haneen Sayed assisted in the economic analysis of the report. Valuable comments were
provided by Brigitte Duces and Antonio Pereira. Cynthia Cristobal and Mercedes Bautista assisted in the
production of the report. Peer reviewers were Nisha Agrawal (EA3CO), Bruno Laporte (HDD), Ruth Kagia
(EAIHR), and Audrey Aarons (SAIPH). Marianne Haug, Director, EA3DR and Samuel Lieberman,
Acting Chief, EA3PH, have endorsed the report.



iii
TABLES IN TEXT
Page
1.1    Basic Data on Project Provinces ..........................................................3
1.2    Indicators of Demand for Junior Secondary Education ....................................................8
3.1    Rates of Return to Project Investments by Component and Province ........................ 31
4.1a Project Cost Summary by Component by Province .40
4.1b Project Cost Summary - Local and Foreign by Component .41
4.2a Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure by Province .43
4.2b Project Cost Summary - Local and Foreign by Category of Expenditure .43
4.3    Financing Plan .........................................................                                            44
4.4    Project Contracts Shown by Category of Expenditure by Province .............................. 48
4.5    Procurement Arrangements .........................................................                                   49
5.1    Number of Beneficiaries of Project Investments .........................................................  52
ANNEXES
1.     Basic Data: Education in Indonesia .........................................................                        59
2.      Structure of the Education System  in Indonesia .........................................................   60
3.      Pyramid of Education - Year 1993/1994 .........................................................                    61
4.      Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture - Central .................................. 62
5.      Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture - Province ............................... 63
6.      Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture - District and Sub-District ...... 65
7.      Economic Analysis of the Junior Secondary Education Program  and Project .............. 66
8.      Education Statistics .........................................................                                     83
9.      Junior Secondary Education Strategy Matrix .........................................................                 88
10.   Options for Increasing Access .........................................................                              90
11.   Inservice Teacher Training Strategy .........................................................                        99
12.   Private Junior Secondary Education .........................................................                        105
13.   Project Management and Implementation ..........................................................                   111
14.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation .........................................................                         128
15.   Output Performance Monitoring .........................................................                             130
16.    Supervision Plan .........................................................                                         132
17.   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Audits ......................................................... 133
18.  Project Components, Expenditure Accounts by Year,
Expenditure Accounts By Components ..........................                                                     136
19.  Proposed Technical Assistance ..........................                                                             154
20. Procurement Plan ..........................                                                                           155
21.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ..........................                                                       160
22.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ........................................ 161
23.   Bank Group-Financed Education and Training Projects .........................................     162
IBRD MAP No. 27960



Staff Appraisal Report                             I
1. EDUCATION ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A.  BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION
1.1    Over the last 25 years, the Government of Indonesia has demonstrated a strong
commitment to education and as a result, Indonesia has achieved one of the best rates of
educational transition in the world. The Government-led enrollment drive and substantial school
building program in the 1970s sharply increased primary school enrollment. The gross enrollment
rate stood at 75 percent in the early 1970s but had increased to about 90 percent by the end of that
decade. By the mid-1980s, gross enrollment rates exceeded 100 percent and by 1994/95 had
reached 112 percent. The effort is not complete because of quality concerns and the need to
increase retention rates, but the achievements at the primary level have been substantial in this
diverse and far-flung archipelago. (Annexes 1-6 provide basic data on the educational structure
and administration in Indonesia.)
1.2   The Government of Indonesia (GOI) is looking to future needs, and has reiterated its
commitment to a proactive program in the future with expansion of junior secondary education as
a priority. While maintaining its commitment to primary education, the Government is aiming for
universal basic education (years 1-9) by 2008/09, to meet the human resource requirements for
transforming the economy from one based on natural resources to one based more on industry
and technology.
1.3   The decision to expand junior secondary education participation as rapidly as feasible is
justified for several reasons (see Annex 7). First, expansion appears to be a precondition for the
rapid growth of the Indonesian economy in the medium term.  Recent research on the
development of East Asian economies indicates that with the achievement of near universal
primary education, secondary (junior and senior) education has had a strong impact on economic
growth. Secondary education plays the role of providing educated entrants to the labor force,
enhancing the trainability of workers, and providing qualified inputs into higher levels of
education.
1.4   In this regard, the Indonesian economy and labor market are in the midst of a structural
transformation. Since 1990, there has been a marked slow-down in employment creation in
agriculture and an acceleration in the rate of growth of job creation in manufacturing,
construction, transport and communication. After a period of wage stagnation in the 1980s, there
are strong indications of rising real wage rates throughout the country and an absolute decline of
employment in agriculture. If sustained nationally for a decade or so, these trends imply the
absorption of remaining pockets of surplus labor, and as happened in other NICs, the
transformation from an agrarian economy to one relying on the education and productivity of its
workers. Social rates of return to education computed from 1986-92 indicate that returns to junior
secondary education are the highest among the education subsectors.



2                 Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
1.5    The second justification for significant Government attention to junior secondary
education is that the number of school places is still limited relative to demand, despite
substantial outlays by parents and a significant private sector response. This inadequacy is
evident from continued strong demand for generally more costly and often lower quality private
education, large numbers of unsuccessful applicants to schools, the prevalence of double shifts
and large classes in schools, and the use of libraries and laboratories for classroom teaching.
1.6    A third rationale for Government intervention is to assist in removing barriers of cost and
isolation that keep many of the rural poor out of school. In rural Java, for example, total expen-
diture per junior secondary student is equivalent to approximately 86 percent of per capita
household expenditure for households of the lowest quintile. Junior secondary education is
therefore beyond the reach of many of the poor and near poor. The opportunity costs of keeping
children in school exacerbate the problem. Expansion of junior secondary education in the
remote rural areas -- which will be the main areas of focus because of their very low enrollment
rates -- will be of direct benefit to the poor, especially girls who are sometimes disadvantaged in
these areas.
1.7    A fourth rationale relates to likely externalities associated with investments in secondary
education. Research from other countries has pointed to externalities such as reduced fertility and
child mortality and improved nutritional status that correlate with female secondary education.
For Indonesia, survey results indicate that a mother's education is an important determinant of
prenatal care utilization: more than 90 percent of women with junior secondary education use
prenatal care, in contrast to only 75 percent of women with some primary education.
Furthermore, analysis of nutritional status in Indonesia finds a strong effect of maternal education
on children's nutritional status: for women with between zero and five years of education, an
additional year of education has no impact on the child's nutritional status, while among women
with six to twelve years of education (or more), an additional year of education improves
nutritional status significantly.
1.8    The role of the Government would therefore be to (a) help expand the number of school
places through a combination of direct investment and measures to stimulate further private
sector/community participation in the provision of school places, and (b) ensure that the poor are
given increased opportunity to participate in the expansion process.
Sector Financing Plan
1.9    Achieving universal nine-year basic education will require significant additional public
resources to be directed to the education sector overall and to basic education in particular.
Estimates of the total costs of the junior secondary expansion program come to approximately
$7.6 billion to be phased out over a 15-year period (see Annex 7 for details). The cost estimates
assume that the private sector will maintain its share of total enrollment of about 40 percent.
During the next ten years of expansion, the budgetary shortfall is estimated at an average $120
million per annum. This is over and above additional resources generated by a 6 percent p.a.
growth of the budget. This implies that the budgetary allocation to junior secondary education
would need to increase from the current 13 percent of the education budget to approximately 16
percent in the next few years. Overall, Indonesia would need to increase its allocation to



Staff Appraisal Report                                  3
education as a proportion of GDP by approximately 0.2 percent (this does not take into account,
however, increases in other education subsectors, which may equally be required).
1.10   Government has demonstrated its commitment to expansion of junior secondary
education through increases in its education investments. In its most recent budget allocations
(1996/97) the education sector budget was increased by 20 percent, one of the highest increases
amongst all sectors. The budget for junior secondary education saw a 24 percent rise over last
year's budget allocation. GOI is also requesting help from donors to close the financing gap.
These efforts include proposed projects in junior secondary education in Indonesia for which
World Bank assistance will be sought over the next four to five fiscal years. The Central
Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project covers four of the country's 27 provinces:
(a) Central Java (Jawa Tengah), (b) Central Kalimantan (Kalimantan Tengah), (c) West
Kalimantan (Kalimantan Barat), and (d) Yogyakarta (D.I. Yogyakarta). Other projects currently
under preparation are the East Java and East Nusa Tenggara Junior Secondary Education Project
and the Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project.   The Secondary  School Teacher
Development Project (Loan 3979-IND) and the Book and Reading Development Project (Loan
3887-IND) will complement these efforts, as well as future basic and secondary education
operations in other provinces. To promote efficiency and equity in the use of resources, the
Government has recognized that educational development among and within the provinces must
be balanced and appropriate to local conditions, meet an acceptable standard of quality, and take
advantage of lessons learned within and outside the country.
Table 1.1: Basic Data On Project Provinces
Central              West      Central    Project   (% of
Java   Yogyakarta Kalimantan Kalimantan   Total  National) INDONESL4
Area(kmr)              46,300     3,169    146,760    152,600  348,829       18    1,929,411
Population ('000)      29,502     2,902      3,501      1,595   37.500       20      186,242
Pop. density (per km2)   637        916         24         11      107      110          97
GDP per capita ('000 Rp)    1,158  1,001     1,232      1,448    1,165       87        1,342
Contribution to national   20.4%   1.5%       3.2%       1.5%    26.6%      26.6    100.00%
poverty *
Source: Indonesia Bureau of Statistics (1993); *Susenas (1992)
1.11   Although the Government can and should promote expansion at the junior secondary
level, it is also aware that Indonesia will not be able to reach universal basic education enrollment
until graduation rates improve at the primary level. Despite high gross enrollment rates at the
primary level overall, about 25 percent of pupils, especially in the more difficult remote areas, do
not complete the full six years of education. Universal nine-year education thus depends on
improving the efficiency of the primary system and producing an expanded pool of candidates for
junior secondary school. The Government has started addressing this issue through a series of
initiatives, including the Primary Education Quality Improvement Project (Loan 3448-IND)
which is piloting measures for improving education quality. Satisfying existing unmet demand,
even at current primary-to-junior-secondary transition rates during the project period, is seen as
an important objective. This will help satisfy communities that are lukewarm to primary



4                 Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
education because of lack of opportunities for secondary education. The combined effects of
these measures would be to improve the transition rates and the potential for accelerating the
development of junior secondary education in the future.
Structure of the Education System
1.12   The education system in Indonesia consists of a six-year primary school cycle, junior and
senior secondary school cycles of three years each, and a postsecondary system ranging from one
to six years. Primary education is largely the domain of Government: nearly five out of six
pupils are enrolled in public schools. Private schooling plays a much greater role in secondary
education. Private schools account for 41 percent of enrollment in junior secondary education
and 54 percent in senior secondary. Junior secondary education is provided through 8,712 public
and 10,279 private general junior secondary schools (SMP) and a remaining 300 vocational
schools that emphasize either technical or home economics subjects, all of which are
administered by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC). The Ministry of Religious
Affairs administers the 582 public and 7,547 private Muslim schools (Madrasahs, or MTs) at the
junior secondary level. At the senior secondary level, 3,241 public and 10,380 private schools
enroll a total of 4.2 million students, for a gross enrollment rate of 34 percent. Education statistics
are found in Annex 8.
1.13   When a private junior secondary school is established, it is classified as "listed" and is
evaluated after graduating its first students. Private schools can advance in accreditation from
"registered" to "recognized" and finally to the status of "equivalent" to public schools. Most
equivalent schools are owned and operated by religious organizations or large enterprises.
Registered and recognized schools are in general owned and operated by teachers' associations
and other nonprofit organizations (yayasans), although some are owned  by religious
organizations or small communities. Most listed schools are owned and operated by small rural
communities that do not have a public school nearby. Almost invariably, schools established by
communities aspire to complete Government takeover, while private yayasans often prefer partial
Government support so they can maintain control. Schools established by teachers' associations
often use public school facilities after hours and employ public school teachers as instructors.
B.    SECTOR ISSUES AND NATIONAL INITIATIVES
1.14   The project provinces face challenges in the provision of junior secondary education that
are common to all provinces in Indonesia, though not to the same extent. These challenges are
(a) to expand equitable access to junior secondary education; (b) to improve the quality of
education throughout the provinces; and (c) to make education management more efficient as the
provinces assume increased responsibility. Access is restricted mainly by the lack of places; high
direct, transportation, and opportunity costs; and great distances and limited transportation
networks in some provinces. In some instances parents in very remote or difficult areas do not
express interest in junior secondary education as they think it is beyond their reach. The most
important factors affecting quality and internal efficiency are: teacher knowledge and skills; the
availability of textbooks, teaching materials, and equipment; the curriculum; pedagogical



Staff Appraisal Report                               5
supervision; the flexibility of the school calendar; school management; and examinations and
educational assessment.
1.15   In spite of these constraints to access and quality, Indonesia has made great strides in
gender equality in both primary and junior secondary education. Only slightly fewer girls than
boys are enrolled in school at the national level, and the rates for three of the project provinces
are higher than for Indonesia as a whole, and in the case of Central Java equal to the national
average. Girls also have lower drop-out and repeater rates than boys and are often higher
achievers. However, rural conditions similar to those which present obstacles to the development
of junior secondary education also adversely affect the participation of girls in some
communities. When schools are located a long way from villages, parents are less willing to let
their daughters commute long distances for religious or cultural reasons, or undertake the costly
expenditures of a long commute or relocation to urban areas. Consequently, boys in these
communities get to go to school rather than girls or go to the better schools often located away
from the remote villages. This happens particularly in certain remote areas of the Kalimantan
provinces.
1.16  In addition to access and quality, all provinces face management challenges as a result of
the deconcentration of tasks from the center to the provinces, a process this project will support.
For historical and political reasons, public administration in Indonesia has been highly centralized
and decision making is tightly controlled by central Government in Jakarta. The center has
traditionally set objectives for education expansion and development, with few inputs from the
provinces. However, the differences of local conditions in each province and district, accentuated
by the great distances of the outer islands from the administrative center, make it increasingly
difficult for central administration to devise and implement satisfactory solutions to local
problems. Although Jakarta will retain a significant role in providing policy guidelines and
promoting regional equity and overall economic development, the Government has decided
gradually to devolve authority to the provinces and districts. This devolution will result in a
deconcentration of the functions of the MOEC to provincial (Kanwil) and district (Kandep)
education offices.
Initiatives Related to Access
1.17   GOI is aware of these issues and a number of initiatives have been put in place to address
them. To improve access, the policy of establishing a minimum size of nine classrooms for
Government schools, which has prevented opening schools in small communities, is being
changed to make it easier for schools with fewer classrooms to be built. Most rural areas also find
it difficult to attract teachers, so the Government is planning to hire contract teachers for limited
terms.
1.18   To make up for some of the inadequacies of the public sector, private schools supported
by local communities, private educational foundations and religious groups have been established
and account for about 40 percent of total enrollment at the junior secondary level. GOI supports
these schools through a variety of measures, including provision of teachers, but compared to
public schools, they are generally of lower quality and cost more to parents. The low quality in
these schools is explained by poor quality teachers and even greater scarcity of educational



6                 Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
materials than in public schools. Unit costs of operations in these schools is, however, lower than
in public schools. Current and proposed GOI support for private education would help maintain
or increase its share of enrollment and improve quality.
1.19  In some sparsely populated areas some communities are not even large enough to support
smaller schools; students have to travel over long distances or difficult terrain to get to school, so
other alternatives are being implemented. The SMP Terbuka ("open SMP") program has been
established to meet the needs of students who cannot attend regular schools because of distance
or high direct and opportunity costs. These are non-fee-paying schools. and students attend
afternoon classes run by secondary school teachers one or more times a week at a center, usually
a junior secondary school, supplemented by tutorials in their villages. The effectiveness of these
schools have been in question because of scarcity of learning materials and inadequate
operational funds. As a result, student drop-out has been a serious problem in some areas.
1.20   To assist rural families who cannot afford to pay for education, GOI has established a
scholarship program for children of low economic background and satisfactory academic
achievement and personality.  This program  covers all costs related to junior secondary
education; within the eligible group priority is given to children from remote areas, orphans, and
girls. GOI plans to expand this program to improve its effectiveness. See Annex 10 for options
to increase access to junior secondary education.
Initiatives Related to Quality
1.21   Various initiatives have also been introduced to improve the quality of junior secondary
education, including efforts to bring good teachers to underserved areas. Although there is an
excess number of teachers in the aggregate, there is an unequal distribution of teachers between
urban and rural areas within provinces because most rural teaching positions are considered
undesirable. Soon after being appointed to rural areas, many teachers try to be placed into urban
schools or find excuses to be absent for long periods. To address this issue of shortages of
(particularly core subject) teachers in rural and remote areas, some provinces have experimented
with hiring "contract teachers" in rural schools in core academic areas. Some rural communities
have also provided their teachers with dormitories. In addition, the Government is already
providing some financial compensation for service in hardship areas. Over the longer term, local
recruitment is one practice that will help to keep teachers in rural areas.
1.22   The unequal distribution of teachers has rather different consequences in the urban areas
where many teachers are underutilized, and where there is a perception of high levels of
absenteeism. Financial rewards may not be the only answer. Teachers generally spend only a
limited time in school because of the very few hours they are assigned to teach, the lack of
teacher rooms, inadequate supplies of library, reference and teaching materials, and the absence
of a structure which promotes interaction among teachers in schools. Management is therefore
focused on purely administrative issues rather than the educational process. And the opportunity
to promote improved teaching in the various subjects is lost. Commitment to outside activities is
therefore sometimes greater than to teaching. Teachers recognize this gap and have effectively
organized monthly subject teacher meetings as a part of their associations (MGMP) outside the
school system. Similar groups are to be encouraged in schools, to help motivate teachers. These



Staff Appraisal Report                               7
groups would gradually be institutionalized as subject departments within which teachers would
take collective responsibility for effective teaching of a given subject. This initiative, combined
with efforts to reduce the over-supply of teachers and to provide teacher rooms and better
libraries in schools, should increase teacher effectiveness.
1.23   Developed from an initiative taken by the MGMP teacher associations, an inservice
teacher training program called PKG was introduced in 1983 to improve the subject-matter
knowledge and skills of teachers (see Annex 11 for details). This program was highly successful
in improving the pedagogical skills of teachers in the selected subject areas and created a positive
attitude among teachers where it was provided. There were, however, some serious shortcomings
of the program. The training curriculum did not fully address the subject-matter knowledge of
teachers, development of skills in identifying learning difficulties was neglected, and teachers in
rural areas could not be covered because of high costs and logistical difficulties. Training was
provided every weekend followed by classroom visits, and trainees were supposed to develop
their own materials. Some of the rural teachers who could be reached could not take full
advantage of the program because of weak qualifications. The decentralization of the PKG and
MGMP system to the district level and the systematic involvement of regional MOEC staff,
including supervisors and principals in the training program, would help address this issue.
1.24   Providing incentives to teachers to spend more time on teaching and reduce absenteeism
also needs to be considered. The costs of this can be high, however, as a general salary increase
for all educational staff would have large fiscal implications on the overall civil service wage bill.
Hence, specific teaching hour supplements that are phased in and linked to performance may be
introduced if an efficient management system for this can be developed.
1.25   Efforts to provide schools with science equipment have not been completely successful.
Procurement and distribution of equipment from Jakarta has resulted in difficult distribution
problems and the supply of inappropriate equipment to schools. Changes in the provision of
science equipment and other school materials are being piloted in the ongoing Second Secondary
Education and Management Project (Loan 3158-IND), including requiring suppliers to distribute
equipment directly to schools as part of their contracts.
1.26   The public examinations and testing system also has been improved under the Second
Secondary Education and Management Project, but the process still needs to be completed. While
preparation of test items for multiple-choice examinations have been greatly improved,
development of open-ended and essay type questions still need to be addressed, and adequate
mechanisms for objective scoring and analysis of results are only now being put in place.
Through the same project, a national assessment system is being established to monitor the
performance of the system regularly. Parallel with the development of the public system the
quality of tests and identification of learning weaknesses in schools has also been initiated so that
educational problems in individual schools can be addressed. A combination of the development
of the public and private systems would provide teachers and managers with the required
information for planning development of the system.



8                  Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
C.  JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION IN THE PROVINCES
1.27   The issues constraining further development of junior secondary education affect the four
project provinces in significantly different ways, and they have developed their education
strategies in response to local circumstances, needs, and opportunities. Central Java's developing
economy can absorb a high rate of growth in junior secondary education but is constrained by
rural conditions and a rate of poverty that is higher than the national average. The two
Kalimantan provinces are held back by geography and poverty, but the need for expansion is less
urgent, particularly in Central Kalimantan where opportunities for junior secondary school
graduates are fewer and the pool of primary graduates is limited. Yogyakarta has already made
substantial progress in expanding access to junior secondary education, so it is focusing its efforts
on traditional and new measures to improve quality. Private schools have been remarkably
successful in providing places for over 40 percent of students in three of the provinces, but at
tremendous cost to parents. While Central Java has a relatively robust network of private schools
in some areas, most such schools in rural Kalimantan are struggling to survive among poor,
scattered villages, where the public sector's help is more crucial. In Central Kalimantan the role
of the private sector is restricted (30 percent of enrollments) because conditions are less
conducive for its development. Because of the diverse conditions in the project provinces, a
variety of instruments would be used as appropriate to increase access and improve the quality of
secondary education.
Table 1.2: Indicators of Demand for Junior Secondary Education
Central             West       Central
Java    Yogyakarta  Kalimantan  Kalimantan  Indonesia
Gross Enrollment Rate       62%      89%        46%        50%         58%
Enrollment Growth 1993-1995    22%   5%         14%        21%         15%
Out-of-School Youth Age 13-15   775,000  60.000  140,000   59,000      5,600,000
Transition Rate, Primary (SD) to 68%  90%       64%         76%        69%
Junior Secondary (SLTP)
Junior Secondary Expenditure as a 69%  40%      39%        30%         55%
Percent of Per Capita Income
Enrollment in Private Schools (%  42%  42%      42%        31%         41%
of Total)
Source: Regional Manpower and Training Project statistics (1994/95); income and expenditure data from Susenas (1993)
Note: Transition Rates do not include Muslim schools - Ml (primary) and MTs (secondary).
Central Java
1.28   Socioeconomic Background. Central Java is densely populated, rural, and poor, but is
changing rapidly. Although small in area, Central Java is the third largest province in Indonesia
with about 30 million inhabitants. The population aged 13-15 peaked in 1993 at just over 2
million and is projected to continue declining throughout the project period. About 70 percent of
the population lives in rural areas, compared to 78 percent in 1980. Central Java has 20 percent of
the country's population living in poverty: over 7 million people had income levels below the



Staff Appraisal Report                               9
poverty line in 1990. The province is below the average for Indonesia in household income and
per capita expenditure, and is the second lowest of the four project provinces. However, per
capita GDP growth (6 percent) was higher than the Indonesian average (4.8 percent) from 1983-
1993.
1.29   The province's employed labor force is still concentrated in agriculture (40 percent in
1994), although the importance of the sector has fallen sharply (from 48 percent in 1987) as
people shift into urban occupations. Urbanization and continued GDP growth have created a
demand for increasing numbers of educated workers -- this is reflected in the wage premiums
enjoyed by more educated wage earners. In 1992, employees with only primary education
received an average monthly wage of about Rp 69,000, those with junior secondary education
earned 27 percent more, those with senior secondary education earned 56 percent more than
junior secondary education graduates, and those with tertiary education earned 52 percent more
than senior secondary graduates.
1.30   Education System. Central Java enrolls 4.5 million primary school pupils in about
26,000 schools and accounts for 15 percent of the nation's primary enrollment. The province's
gross enrollment rate is 114 percent at the primary level, compared to a junior secondary rate of
62 percent. The system enrolls 1.3 million junior secondary school students, compared to
340,000 in the other three provinces combined. As in all the project provinces, private schooling
is crucial in helping to fill the gap between demand and supply. About 42 percent of the
province's students attend private junior secondary schools, and there are twice as many private
schools as public schools. Most of these private schools are small (about a third the size of the
average public school) but relatively well-established, 80 percent having reached the
"recognized" or "equivalent" level of accreditation. The private sector plays an even greater role
at the senior secondary level, where it accounts for 60 percent of the total enrollment of 600,000
and 72 percent of the schools. The senior secondary gross enrollment rate in Central Java is 32
percent, slightly lower than the national rate.
1.31   Subsector Issues. The scale of Central Java's education system is enormous and presents
the greatest challenges, in terms of absolute numbers, of any of the project provinces. Access to
junior secondary education is highly variable throughout the province, based on income levels,
and urban or rural living. Gross enrollment rates range from 42 percent to 109 percent by district.
The rural enrollment rate is 46 percent compared to an urban rate of 77 percent. Of the 35
districts, eight account for half of the province's 13-15 age population not attending school. The
provincial enrollment rate improved from 1992/93 to 1994/95 as junior secondary enrollment
expanded even as the cohort population began to level off. Still, large numbers are not in school.
A total of 775,000 youth of the appropriate age are not attending junior secondary school, and
each year more than 160,000 pupils graduate from primary school but do not continue their
studies.
1.32   Access is restricted in Central Java, particularly in rural areas, mainly because capacity is
limited and because direct and opportunity costs are high. Public and private schools have
expanded their enrollment rapidly to meet demand for school places, especially in cities and in
other areas that are easy to reach. For example, private school enrollment increased by 26
percent over two years, 1992/93-1994/95. The number of students per classroom averages 46, so



10                Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
specialized teaching classrooms such as laboratories and libraries often get used as regular
classrooms to house the overflow of students. In addition, teachers favor urban schools while
rural schools often do not have enough qualified staff. In rural low-income areas, many parents
are hindered by high costs, even when places are available. Aside from the opportunity costs of
sending children to school during working hours, rural households devote an exceptionally high
share of their expenditure to junior secondary education, as noted earlier. Even in those rural
areas where public transportation is available, the cost of a two-way trip every day contributes to
these expenses and is probably prohibitive for low-income families.
1.33   The quality of education is also a concern, particularly in rural schools. Low quality
reduces the interest of students and parents and leads to inefficiencies in the system as students
score poorly on examinations, drop out, or repeat grades. Quality is particularly affected by the
skills of teachers and the availability of instructional tools and facilities. Teachers need ongoing
support and training because many are teaching with a weak educational background. Two-thirds
of the province's SMP teachers do not have the required level of qualification, and 12 percent
have no more than a secondary education (this rises to one third among Madrasah teachers). Only
one teacher in five has received ongoing training and support under the current inservice program
(PKG). Private schools tend to rely heavily on less-qualified part-time teachers. Whereas only 14
percent of the public school teachers are part-time, the ratio is 55 percent in private schools.
1.34   In addition, the facilities and teaching tools that teachers have to work with are limited.
Among SMPs, which are generally better equipped than Madrasahs, 68 percent have little or no
science teaching equipment. A third of the schools have no library, and many that do have few
books. On average, school libraries have about two books per student; many of those are extra
copies of textbooks and teacher handbooks, or are out of date and of poor quality. Textbooks for
students have historically been limited, though this problem is being addressed through another
Bank project. Because of the province's poverty, limited parental contributions also affect
quality. Of family expenditure on junior secondary education, only 6 percent goes for textbooks,
compared to a national average of 13 percent.
1.35   Broad Subsector Strategy. To respond to the likely rise in demand for junior secondary
education in light of continuing industrial and urban development, GOI plans to aggressively
support equitable expansion of junior secondary education in Central Java, although near-
universal access cannot be achieved until a larger proportion of primary school pupils graduate
from that level. Several types of support are planned. First, the province will build schools in
and attract good teachers to areas of low enrollment, particularly larger rural settlements that the
private sector is not covering. Second, it will further support the strong tradition of private
schooling in this province by promoting quality improvement and more efficient administration,
so parents will see it as providing education of a standard similar to that of public schools. Third,
the province will alleviate financial constraints that keep the rural poor out of school, in part by
reducing travel costs and by providing flexible education alternatives that do not force young
people to choose between study and work. Fourth, improvement of the overall quality of
education, particularly in rural areas, will increase the trainability of junior secondary school
graduates from both public and private schools. Because of its large size and dense population,
Central Java's strategies for implementing quality improvements would be different from those of
the other provinces. For example, the inservice teacher training program strategy in the province



Staff Appraisal Report                              11
would focus on decentralization to the district level, and greater support would be given to
MGMPs.
Yogyakarta
1.36   Socioeconomic Background. Yogyakarta, small in land area, is the most heavily
urbanized province in Indonesia, aside from Jakarta. Between 1980 and 1990, the urban
population grew at a rate of 8 percent per annum. Still, over 40 percent of the people live in rural
areas. Rapid urbanization has produced the lowest share of the labor force in agriculture (45
percent) among the four project provinces and the highest share in services (37 percent).
Furthermore, social development indicators such as school attendance are among the highest in
Indonesia. Yet GDP per capita is the lowest among the project provinces. High enrollment in
junior secondary school is reflected in reduced wage premiums for educated workers. In 1992,
the wage premium for workers with junior secondary education over those with primary
education was only 11 percent, but that for senior secondary graduates over those with junior
secondary education was 52 percent.
1.37   Education System.  Yogyakarta has been remarkably successful in expanding the
coverage of education. Of youth aged 10-19 years, 82 percent attend school and only 12 percent
are working. Yogyakarta's primary school system has 355,000 pupils and a gross enrollment rate
of 118 percent. About 80 percent of the primary schools are public, compared to 39 percent at
the junior secondary level. A majority of junior secondary students, however, attend public
schools rather than the smaller private schools. Yogyakarta and Jakarta are the two provinces that
are farthest ahead of the national average in coverage at the lower secondary level. Yogyakarta's
junior secondary system as a whole has a high gross enrollment rate of 89 percent. Most students
attend general SMPs: out of a total of 547 junior secondary schools, the number of vocational
schools in the province has dwindled to only three. Also, the role of Madrasahs, which are
generally of lower quality than SMPs, is less significant here than in the other project provinces
(they account for only 3 percent of all students). At the senior secondary level, the gross
enrollment rate is an impressive 62 percent, compared to the national rate of 34 percent. The
private system accounts for 76 percent of the senior secondary schools and 60 percent of the
students. Yogyakarta has a strong tradition of education as reflected in its high gross enrollment
rates even at the tertiary level - the highest in the country and more than three times the national
average.
1.38   Subsector Issues. As a result of Yogyakarta's high population density, access to junior
secondary schools is far less of a problem here than in the other project provinces. In Bantul and
Gunung Kidul districts, which are rural, enrollment rates are lower, partly because of school costs
and partly because some young people go to work or to school in the city. These districts account
for two-thirds of the province's out-of-school youth in the 13-15 age group. The relative quality
of the system is reflected in national examination scores, which are among the highest in the
country. Interest in education is high, and the secondary school system has been supported
through links with the tertiary institutions. The province as a whole, therefore, is aiming for
excellence, although parts of Yogyakarta are still limited by weaknesses in teaching and by
limited facilities and instructional tools. In general, Yogyakarta's private schools are relatively



12               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
well developed, particularly in comparison to those in the Kalimantan provinces. Over 90
percent have reached the accreditation level of "recognized" or "equivalent".
1.39   Broad Subsector Strategy. By continuing to target remaining pockets with lower school
attendance, Yogyakarta can be expected to achieve near-universal junior secondary education
from the current 89 percent within the next few years, without donor assistance. The province
now concentrates on improving the quality of both junior and senior secondary education, which
are already producing many well-performing graduates. The public and private school systems do
this by setting and monitoring high standards, creating centers of excellence, trying new
technologies, and training staff. Because of its achievements and small size, Yogyakarta is
beginning to serve as a national model for testing the next generation of approaches in classroom
instruction. As it does so, the province will develop mechanisms to evaluate the success of its
innovations, share lessons learned with other provinces, and expand its participation in
international comparisons of educational achievement. Yogyakarta will continue to support its
private schools through training and the provision of other quality inputs.
Central Kalimantan
1.40   Socioeconomic Background. Central Kalimantan has the smallest and most scattered
population of the four provinces. Although it remains sparsely inhabited, the population is
growing and becoming more urbanized. Four out of five people live in rural areas, but the urban
population grew by an average of 10 percent a year from 1980-1990. Nine rivers provide the
main transportation links between towns and villages. About 15 percent of the population lives
in isolated villages of 100-200 people in remote mountainous and border areas, where travel is
often extremely difficult. The indigenous Dayak groups of Central Kalimantan have traditionally
practiced subsistence farming using slash-and-bum techniques. Transmigration largely from Java
has brought plantation development and other changes to some rural areas. The Government has
proposed to expand this program in the coming years, particularly in Kotawaringin Timur district.
About 60 percent of the province's villages are classified by the Government as poor villages.
1.41   Employment in Central Kalimantan is concentrated in agriculture (65 percent) while
manufacturing absorbs only 7 percent of the labor force. The province is rich in natural resources
which are being exploited in enclave fashion. For this reason, GDP per capita is the highest
among the four project provinces, though it grew more slowly (3 percent) than the national
average during 1983-1993 and was not broadly distributed. Wage premiums for more highly
educated workers are narrower than the average for Indonesia. The current structure of the
economy has not begun to marginalize those workers with low educational qualification.
1.42   Education System. Primary schools in Central Kalimantan enroll 265,000 students for a
gross enrollment rate of 108 percent, although many do not finish the full six years. At the junior
secondary level, the gross enrollment rate is 50 percent, compared to the national rate of 58
percent. The system enrolls just 59,000 junior secondary school students (compared to over a
million in Central Java), the smallest number of the four provinces. About 80 percent of those of
junior secondary school age live in rural areas. The two districts of Kotawaringin Timur and
Kapuas account for nearly three-quarters of the province's out-of-school youth of junior
secondary school age. Public schools enroll about twice as many students as private schools not



StaffAppraisal Report                               13
only at the junior secondary level but also at the senior secondary level (unlike the Java
provinces, where private schooling predominates at the senior level). The senior secondary gross
enrollment rate (30 percent) is less than half Yogyakarta's rate.
1.43   Subsector Issues. Low population density in both Kalimantan provinces (for example,
11 persons per square kilometer in Central Kalimantan compared to over 900 in Yogyakarta)
compounds the difficulty of providing access to secondary education, although the absolute
number of out-of-school youth is relatively low. In addition, primary school retention and
graduation rates are particularly low in this province, a weakness that limits the potential for
junior secondary expansion. Many rural areas of Central Kalimantan are not easily reached, have
populations that are too small for a regular SMP, and are in poor districts. As a result, the
province's urban gross enrollment rate at the junior secondary level is nearly double the rural
gross enrollment rate. This disparity is significantly more pronounced in both Kalimantan
provinces than in the nation as a whole. Because the population is small and scattered, the
average size of junior secondary schools here (I70) is less than half the average enrollment in
high-density Central Java (357). Private schools have an average of only about 100 students each.
Distance and the lack of accommodations prevent students in remote areas from attending school.
1.44   Costs also represent an access barrier, though many parents are willing to make
significant sacrifices to send children to school. Despite the fact that household expenses at
private schools are higher than in public schools, the number of private schools has increased
over the past decade, though they enroll a smaller proportion of students here than in the other
provinces. It is difficult to make private schools viable in many parts of Central Kalimantan
because of the undeveloped formal economy and difficult terrain, and unlike West Kalimantan,
there are fewer religious and other organizations involved. As a result, about 63 percent of
private schools are relatively underdeveloped (in the lowest two categories of the private school
classification). In addition to direct costs, opportunity costs are also high for students' families
who rely on teenagers for agriculture, fishing, and household chores during normal school hours.
Pockets of economic activity (such as gold mining) offer young people with less than a secondary
school education some opportunities for wage employment.
1.45   The quality of schooling also suffers in the isolated, poor communities of the two
Kalimantan provinces. In 1994/95, the average national exam scores in all the province's schools
were moderate to poor; none was classified as good. Twenty percent of teachers in Central
Kalimantan have only a secondary school education themselves. Isolation often cuts teachers off
from  further training or peer support.  These teachers need ongoing training, upgrading,
monitoring, and mentoring to strengthen their subject matter knowledge, pedagogical skills, and
confidence in the classroom. But many of the province's teachers have not been covered by the
PKG training program because of their isolation. In addition, the highest concentration of the
teaching force is in urban areas where living conditions are better and adequate housing is
available, while rural areas have an acute undersupply of qualified subject teachers. Due to the
shortage of teachers, small rural junior secondary schools generally have multisubject teachers
who are often not trained adequately in all subjects they teach, if in any.
1.46   In rural areas low quality of teaching is compounded by the widespread employment of
part-time teachers, often poorly qualified and motivated. Increasing the challenge of teaching is



14               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
the shortage of appropriate teaching materials and facilities. Science is most often taught by
lecture in regular classrooms with no teaching aids or equipment. Parents use only 3 percent of
junior secondary schooling expenditure for textbooks.
1.47   Broad Subsector Strategy. Central Kalimantan will continue to expand junior secondary
education, but the scale of the expansion will be relatively modest given the limited wage
differentials between primary and secondary graduates and the small number and proportion of
students completing the primary system. Because community-supported private schools are
particularly weak in this province, the planned role of the public sector is crucial. First, Central
Kalimantan will direct its investment at geographically isolated populations with low enrollment
rates, where the province's limited private school system is not functioning. In these areas, the
province will employ a range of options to reach potential students, such as building small
schools to serve small communities, attracting teachers to underserved areas, supporting village-
based schooling, and providing accommodation for students. Second, quality will be improved to
increase the value of a junior secondary education, a development that would encourage students
to complete the primary cycle and would help prepare students for further training as the
province's natural resources are increasingly exploited. While maintaining quality in its own
schools, the province will also support the relatively weak private sector so it can remain viable,
particularly in remote areas. Third, the province will design its interventions to ease the financial
burden of the poor.
West Kalimantan
1.48   Socioeconomic Background. About a third of West Kalimantan's population was
considered to be living in poverty in 1990, a high rate for Indonesia. However, the province is
undergoing rapid economic and demographic change: GDP per capita grew by 6 percent
annually 1983-1993, one of the highest rates in the country. The primary port city of Pontianak is
a growing center for industry and regional trade. Traditionally, the province has relied on river
transport, like Central Kalimantan. However, roads are becoming more important for the 79
percent of the population living in rural areas and have expanded the province's trade with
bordering Sarawak (Malaysian Borneo). As a result of this growth, isolated families and entire
villages are shifting from river areas to road areas to gain access to goods, services, and jobs. In
addition, because of the province's low population density, GOI is resettling volunteer
transmigrants from other parts of Indonesia in rural plantation areas (especially rubber and palm
oil), where the soil is not fertile enough for growing rice.
1.49   West Kalimantan's economy remains heavily dependent on agriculture, and 68 percent of
employed people were in that sector in 1993. But the nature of the agricultural activities (for
example, the plantation crops) has put per capita incomes close to the average for Indonesia. In
their turn, satisfactory average per capita income and higher economic growth rates have resulted
in higher than average salaries for employed persons of all levels of education attainment, but
especially at primary and junior secondary levels. A corollary of this is that wage premiums for
educated workers are smaller than in other provinces (16 percent for junior secondary graduates
and 5 percent for senior secondary graduates). However, many people in rural areas are largely
outside the formal economy.



StaffAppraisal Report                               15
1.50   Education System. At the primary level, West Kalimantan has about 620,000 pupils in
3,870 schools, 90 percent of which are public. The primary gross enrollment rate is 111 percent.
The secondary school enrollment rates are the lowest of the four project provinces. At the junior
secondary level, the gross enrollment rate is 46 percent, compared to the national rate of 58
percent. The junior secondary system enrolls 122,000 students, about 51,000 of them in private
schools. The proportion of schools that are public or private Madrasahs has doubled over the past
decade. Schools in plantation areas adjacent to indigenous Dayak communities sometimes serve a
mixture of ethnic and religious groups. In fact, unlike the other project provinces, where most
SMP students are Islamic, SMP students in West Kalimantan are as likely to be either Christian
or Buddhist as Muslim. At the senior secondary level, the gross enrollment ratio is 24 percent
(compared to the national rate of 34 percent). Although public schools account for just over a
quarter of the total number of senior secondary schools in the province, they enroll as many
students as private schools.
1.51   Subsector Issues. As in other parts of Kalimantan, access to education is restricted by
distance and cost. As a result, the rural enrollment rate in West Kalimantan is less than a third of
the enrollment rate in urban areas; in contrast, nationally the rural rate is more than half the urban
rate. Although the most populated districts near the coastal road and river networks account for
the majority of the province's youth who are not in junior secondary school, the more remote and
sparsely populated districts (such as Sintang, Sanggau, and Ketapang) have lower enrollment
rates. Much of the population lives in small villages scattered over difficult terrain that have an
insufficient number of young people to justify a separate school of typical size. Transportation to
the nearest school is often a great distance by foot or by river, and flooding during the rainy
season isolates villages from each other. Schools in such areas also find it difficult to attract good
teachers because of harsh local conditions.
1.52   If they have a school at all, remote villages are often served by a small private school.
The average size of junior secondary schools in the province as a whole (191) is smaller here than
in the Java provinces. A large number of rural private schools have been established by
communities, with limited resources, as a last resort. However, many of them are weak: 80
percent of all private schools have not advanced in their accreditation beyond the basic
"registered" status. In some villages, Madrasahs open where the public sector has not reached.
They are more acceptable than public schools to many Muslim parents of females, partly because
of their religious instruction and partly because of their proximity to the village. However, the
costs of private Madrasahs and other schools is more than many can afford. In addition to high
direct costs relative to rural incomes, opportunity costs in certain areas limit enrollment. Young
people in certain subdistricts can find forestry jobs or work in home industries, and many are
needed to help their parents at home or in economic activities such as fishing or farming during
morning school hours.
1.53   The qusality of the small, private schools that are common in remote areas is often low.
National examination (NEM) scores for the province declined between 1992/93 and 1994/95 and
were especially weak in science, mathematics, and English. Private school teachers are generally
less qualified than their public school counterparts: more than half have no more than a senior
secondary school education. Of all teachers, in both public and private schools, only 11 percent
have the newly required qualification of DIII degree, and about 30 percent even have no training



16               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
beyond secondary school. Because of their isolation, many receive limited or no inservice
training or onservice support. The relatively high costs met by families affect not only access but
quality. After paying the necessary registration fees and other costs needed to establish a school
or enroll their children, parents and school associations often cannot afford significant amounts to
ensure students get a quality education. For example, families spend more than three times as
much for school uniforms as for textbooks.
1.54   Broad Subsector Strategy.  Junior secondary education in this province will be
developed at a moderate pace to help the province manage and take advantage of demographic
and economic change. The province will give special attention to expanding education for the
majority of the rural population who are unlikely to benefit substantially from rapid change
unless they are better educated. This agenda will be supported in several ways. First, while
addressing barriers of geography and distance by placing small schools in remote areas, the
province will also take advantage of village consolidation and improved transportation networks
by placing somewhat larger schools in more densely populated areas. Public schools will be
placed in such rural settlements where private schools have not developed, either because of
isolation or low regional incomes. Stronger private schools, including religious schools, will be
allowed to grow without competition from the public sector. Second, quality will be addressed
urgently, particularly in rural schools that have difficulty training unqualified teachers and
keeping good ones. Relatively weak community-supported schools, in particular, will be given
special consideration. Third, the province's expansion efforts will be designed to keep the cost of
education reasonable for the high number of people living in poverty.



Staff Appraisal Report                            17
2. GOVERNMENT AND BANK STRATEGY
AND LESSONS LEARNED
A.  GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
2.1    As part of the Repelita VI (1994/99) program, the Government set the important goal of
extending access to high quality junior secondary education. This objective is integral to the goal
of attaining universal coverage of nine years of basic education by the end of Repelita VIII
(2008/09). To support this ambitious goal, the Government has adopted several policy measures
and strategies (see Annex 9): (a) it plans to provide additional resources to basic education,
starting with an increase of 20 percent in the overall budget of education for the 1996/97 fiscal
year; (b) it has abolished junior secondary school fees and admission requirements for primary
school graduates; (c) it is providing free textbooks for all primary and junior secondary
schoolchildren; (d) it is supporting private junior secondary schools with public teachers and
other inputs to maintain and even increase their significant enrollment participation at this school
level; (e) it continues to upgrade teachers' skills for both public and private schools through
inservice programs; (f) it has started the construction or development of regular or alternative
schools in rural and remote villages; (g) it has phased out all diploma courses for the preservice
education of secondary school teachers (junior and senior) so all new teachers at that level now
need to have an SI (undergraduate degree); (h) it is upgrading existing junior secondary school
teachers to DII (two-year post-secondary diploma) at public expense; and (i) it is extending
subsidies (scholarships) to capable but poor students to begin or continue junior secondary
education.
B.    LESSONS LEARNED
2.2   Integration of the following lessons from previous Bank projects would help build on the
exceptional performance of the Bank in the education sector in Indonesia. All the 21 previous
projects have been judged satisfactory by OED, and they have set the stage for the more
challenging tasks in this sector. OED Document No. 9752, Indonesian Education and the World
Bank: an Assessment of Two Decades of Lending (1991) found that support for education
projects was timely and that the Bank gave valuable advice to the Government. Although the
projects were successful, there is a continuing need to improve the quality of education and to
strengthen management at the provincial level, particularly in light of the current trend of
deconcentrating responsibilities, a process this project will support.
2.3    OED Report. The 1991 report has several conclusions and recommendations that are
relevant for this project:
Issue: Institution building is basic to the long-term goal of increasing the self-sufficiency
of the Indonesian education system (p. 58).



18               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Response: Increased emphasis on institution building and self-management at
provincial and district levels.
Issue: Projects must be placed and discussed within the framework of the policy dialogue
(p. 65).
Project Response: Regular discussions between MOEC and the Bank on development
priorities and the role of the Bank related to other donors are instrumental in determining
agenda for Bank lending.
Issue: Despite explicit goals, projects have not always achieved equitable distribution of
project benefits to the poor (p. 68).
Project Response: Several project interventions are specifically targeted to the poor:
school construction in rural areas, SMP Terbuka, and the scholarship program.
Issue: Previous projects (mainly national in scope) were often overly complex or
underestimated absorption constraints and experience, resulting in unsatisfactory
implementation (p. 70).
Project Response: The project has been designed with extensive participation from
communities, existing schools, district and provincial MOEC staff.
Issue: GOI should spend a greater amount of its budget on education, to achieve the
necessary quality and institutional objectives (p. 78).
Project Response: Indonesia's education expenditures are 14 percent of the total
Government budget; the 1996/97 budget shows an increase of 20 percent over last year,
of which 72 percent is spent on basic education (primary and junior secondary).
Issue: Despite its role in providing educational opportunities, the private system has
received limited support from GOI and the Bank (p. 79).
Project Response: GOI is committed to ensuring that the contribution from the private
sector in junior secondary education is maintained and strengthened; recent projects have
provided private schools with quality inputs.
2.4    Lessons from  Completed and Ongoing Projects in Secondary Education. Other
lessons have been drawn or confirmed by the General Operational Review of Secondary
Education Projects by HDD. Implementation of the Indonesia Secondary Education Project
(Loan 2472-IND) and the ongoing Second Secondary Education and Management Project (Loan
3158-fND) are particularly relevant in this respect.
(a)    Overall Project Design.  The expansion of secondary education should be
addressed through a dual strategy of increasing school places and improving the
quality of education. The proposed project would include both expansion and
quality improvement objectives, to ensure continual demand for education and to
improve repetition and drop-out rates.



Staff Appraisal Report                            19
(b)   Flexibility in the Design of Components.  Attempts to impose standard
solutions to the variety of conditions in Indonesia (as in all large countries) have
not been successful, and GOI is working to correct this situation. Among others,
the policy of limiting the size of government schools to a minimum of nine
classrooms has been reviewed, to allow Government schools to be established in
communities with small populations and experimentation has started with
alternative models of junior secondary education.
(c)    Ownership and Participation. Local communities contribute significantly to
the development of education in their areas. Stakeholders and clients are also
well placed to evaluate project outcomes. They know when children are learning
and how investments in schools are being used. Stakeholder involvement (which
was emphasized during the preparation process, see Annex 13) is critical to fully
measure project outcomes, to understand how a project is unfolding and to help
develop appropriate corrective measures when necessary.  The project will
promote and supplement the use of local resources for education by providing
assistance in kind and incentives for both private and public education.
C.  BANK STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR INVOLVEMENT
2.5    This project -- one of the first in a series of junior secondary education projects --
supports the Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia, which was
presented to the Board on March 21, 1995. The CAS endorses Government's role towards
establishing a regulatory framework and in supporting decentralization and participation. In
addition, the CAS highlights the importance of continued emphasis on human resource
development to promote economic growth, competitiveness, and structural transformation, and
on a more selective, efficient use of public resources. The design of the proposed project is also
consistent with the Bank's strategy of balanced assistance to the education sector, which includes
on-going and proposed assistance for (a) improving the quality of primary education, including
possible interventions in early childhood development, (b) expansion and quality improvement of
lower-secondary education, (c) quality improvement of upper-secondary education, (d) selective
interventions in higher education, and (e) an active policy dialogue designed to redefine and
refocus the Government's role in the education sector.
2.6   The Bank's comparative advantage in supporting junior secondary education is based on
its long-standing and close working relationship with MOEC. The Bank has engaged in a
comprehensive dialogue with MOEC that reaches far beyond this project itself, since it has
helped: (a) establish a solid conceptual and economic framework for expanding and improving
the quality of the basic education in Indonesia over the next 20 years; (b) identify the comparative
advantages for Bank's and other donors' role in the planned expansion and quality improvement
process; and (c) strengthen the decentralizing trends toward sub-central levels, province-specific
projects, and local ownership. As a result of this dialogue, the previous highly centralized,
uniform approach to project design and implementation has been replaced by an approach that
will rest on provincially based projects. The Government has now recognized the need to take
into account specific provincial situations, including economic growth trends and prospects, the



20               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
existing education needs, labor market conditions, private sector delivery capacity, levels of
poverty, and geographic conditions. The Bank has also been an active partner in the discussions
on the priorities governing basic education delivery, on the role of the private sector in secondary
education and on the share of Government spending that should be allocated to basic education.
2.7   The Bank is a trusted partner in basic education in Indonesia and has substantial
experience working with the Indonesian Government in this sector. Based on the Bank's
worldwide experience, GOI sought the Bank's advice on such issues as lower-cost alternatives
for junior secondary education, how to improve quality and how to tailor the proposed increased
access programs to local needs. The proposed project represents one in an overall program of
Bank support for expansion and quality improvements in basic education. Currently, the Bank is
actively preparing two other secondary education projects and the Government has requested that
the Bank provide both financial and technical assistance for future projects. The junior secondary
education development program is supported by other donors, including ADB and OECF. This
project complements the assistance to basic education provided by several ongoing projects:
(a)    Second Secondary Education and Management Project. This project (Loan
3158-IND), approved in 1990, consisted of: provision of quality inputs in
secondary schools (teacher training, equipment and books); a review and redesign
of the student assessment system; and a redesign of the information management
system. After initial problems, mainly due to the large national scope, the project
was restructured to operate in five pilot provinces, with satisfactory results. The
implementation experience from this project has provided the basis for the design
of the current project. In addition, the Bank is now very familiar with the issues
and the agencies involved in this subsector at the provincial level.
(b)   The Primary and Secondary School Teacher Development Projects. These
two projects (Loans 3496-IND and 3979-IND) address pre-service training of
primary and secondary school teachers respectively. They complement the
current project in the preparation and quality improvements of teachers and
substantial coordination between pre-service and in-service training is achieved
through the concurrent implementation of these projects. The Bank is also
heavily involved in ensuring that maximum coordination is achieved between
teacher development projects and the in-service training components of the
secondary education development projects.
(c)    The Primary Education Quality Improvement Project. Approved in 1992,
this project (Loan 3448-IND) provides quality inputs in primary schools in six
provinces. The issues related to primary schools that impact on transition,
enrollments and quality in junior secondary schools are being addressed in this
project on a limited scale. Project impact is now being reviewed, to determnine the
further strategies for implementation on a larger scale.
(d)   The Book and Reading Development Project. The project (Loan 3887-IND)
has recently started implementation (September 1995) to provide free textbooks
on a one-to-one basis to all primary and junior secondary education students in all



Staff Appraisal Report                            21
subjects. Books will be provided both to public and private schools. The project
provides one of the most essential quality inputs into basic education on a
systematic basis, and complements the secondary education development
projects, which will focus on supporting non-textbook educational materials and
teaching aids. Annex 9 provides details on Government and Bank strategies for
development of the sector.



22               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
3.  THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1    The project would assist the MOEC in addressing the quality and coverage of junior
secondary education in the provinces of Central Java, Yogyakarta, Central Kalimantan, and
West Kalimantan. The project's objectives are to:
(a)   expand access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and equitable
way;
(b)   improve the quality of junior and senior secondary education; and
(c)   strengthen the management of the education system at all levels.
B.    PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND CRITICAL SUCCESS FACTORS
3.2   Project impact will be assessed using the following indicators (See Annex 15):
(a)   achievement of project enrollment targets (satisfactory = 75 percent) in new
junior secondary schools and alternative programs by project completion date,
by province and district;
(b)    utilization of at least 75 percent of new capacity created by the project, by
province, district, subdistrict, and grade;
(c)   an increase in student examination scores, by province, district, subject, and
public and private school by an average of 0.2 points during the project; and
(d)   implementation of at least 80 percent of the work program as measured by the
physical targets and budget spent annually for project and routine activities in
each province.
C.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Components
3.3   To meet the objectives of increasing access to junior secondary education, improving
the quality of secondary education, and enhancing education management, activities related to
the following components and subcomponents would be implemented selectively and in
varying degrees in the public and private systems of the four project provinces. The total cost
of the project is $154.1 million, including contingencies.



StaffAppraisal Report                            23
3.4    Expand Access (estimated base costs of $60.3 million). To improve access to junior
secondary education, the project would (a) create a total of 45,000 school places by building
regular and small junior secondary schools in underserved rural areas; (b) gradually expand
alternative equivalency programs by creating 11,000 places with greater quality inputs for
those who cannot attend regular schools, and monitor the programs' effectiveness; (c) assist
in community construction of student and teacher accommodations for public and private
schools in isolated areas; (d) provide contract teachers for rural areas; (e) finance scholarships
for 34,000 poor students who perform well, with priority given to girls in public and private
schools; and (f) provide parents with information about how to take full advantage of the
benefits of junior secondary schooling in their local areas. See Annex 10 for more details on
options for increasing access. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
would (i) employ contract teachers, (ii) award scholarships, and (iii) select locations for the
construction of schools and dormitories, in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
3.5   Improve Quality (estimated base costs of $58.2 million). To improve the quality of
junior secondary education, the project would (a) strengthen school teachers' subject-matter
knowledge and pedagogical skills, including identification of learning difficulties, through
inservice and upgrading training programs, and support measures to bring teachers to rural
areas; (b) enhance the learning environment by providing schools with tools for teaching and
learning, including educational equipment and materials; science teaching aids; new teaching
rooms; and reference and library books; (c) support the development of school-level
initiatives to improve quality; and (d) further develop tests, examinations, and assessment
systems by training teachers in student evaluation, providing technical assistance, and
developing item databanks for school examinations. Project interventions would be aimed
particularly at public and private schools (including Madrasahs) in poor communities to
encourage continued private sector participation in the provision of education and to reduce
inequity in the project provinces. These access and quality interventions would help increase
access of girls in areas where gender disparities still exist.
3.6    Strengthen Education Management (estimated base costs of $5.9 million). To
strengthen the management of the education system, the project would (a) train school
principals and other administrators in managing schools and providing pedagogical support to
teachers; and (b) develop managerial and data analysis capacity to allow provincial and
district staff to effectively handle their increasing responsibilities for education planning and
management.
3.7    Support Project Management (estimated base costs of $7.0 million). The project
would support the strengthening of institutional capacities as well as the operational costs of
project management by the Kanwils, Kandeps/Kanin, and the MOEC directorate of secondary
education (Dikmenum).
Detailed Description of Interventions for each Province
3.8    Central Java (estimated base costs of $57.6 million). The project would complement
the efforts of the Government and donors in increasing enrollment in and improving the



24                Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
quality of junior secondary school, and particularly in meeting the needs of rural communities
where no school exists. Under the project, the province would create an additional 38,000
junior secondary school places in areas where enrollment rates are low.
3.9    Access. The project would build, furnish, and equip 77 new public SMPs of up to
nine classrooms to cater for an additional 28,000 students in large rural communities without
a public or private school. To target the poor, half of the new schools would be located in
villages classified as poor by the Government. In small rural communities, schools three- or
six-classroom schools may be more appropriate than nine-classroom schools. As part of total
project costs, the Government would acquire land required for the schools. The project would
provide contract teachers in rural schools as part of a pilot scheme to reduce teacher shortages
in the rural areas.
3.10   To reach potential students who cannot attend school because of direct and
opportunity costs, the project would fund an expansion of SMP Terbuka for an additional
6,000 students. The expansion would increase female access to schools. Emphasis would be
given to the provision of teaching and reference materials for students and teachers. Funding
for operational costs would allow teachers to attend class sessions and remove some of the
key obstacles to effective operations of this program. As in other project provinces,
intervention in the SMP Terbuka program would be modest and aimed at increasing its
quality while the program's effectiveness in teaching and retaining students is monitored and
evaluated.
3.11   To assist rural families who cannot afford to pay for education the project would
provide annual scholarships through GOI's scholarship program to approximately 24,600
low-income Central Java students who perform well in school. This program has a well
established selection procedure which involves various levels from the school to the Kanwil.
The disbursement of the funds will be directly to the recipient through the Provincial Pos Giro
Office. The project would also devote some funds for the development and production of
materials to sensitize parents to the benefits of junior secondary education and options for
schooling their children, particularly in areas where communities feel these are beyond their
reach.
3.12   Quality. To improve quality in public and private schools, Central Java would
concentrate on strengthening teacher skills and providing them with teaching resources. A
total of about 16,000 teachers would be given PKG inservice training. The aim would be to
develop a systematic link between the district and provincial trainers and school supervisors
to ensure that good teaching practices are routinized in the system. To reduce costs of
operation and logistical problems, training for most teachers would be moved from the
provincial headquarters to the district headquarters. For teachers in very remote areas, training
would be held in the provincial headquarters three times a year, followed by school visits by
teams who would cover multiple subjects. Funding would continue for the wide-reaching
MGMP network of subject-matter teacher associations to provide teachers skills in use of
tests and identification of learning weaknesses. SMP Terbuka teachers and tutors would also
receive training.



Staff Appraisal Report                          25
3.13   The project would also provide a variety of teaching materials and equipment for
science and other subjects, about 3 million reference and library books for public and private
schools, and school office equipment. Science equipment would be provided in a variety of
packages to suit the diverse types and conditions of schools in the province. In addition,
libraries and administration/teacher rooms would be built at selected existing schools.
Support for expansion of quality public and private schools, especially religious schools in
rural communities would make it easier for girls to get access to junior secondary education
in a culturally acceptable way.
3.14   Education Management. Because of the sheer size of its education system in relation
to the other project provinces and its goal of rapidly expanding the system, Central Java
would need improved mechanisms and technology to manage its schools and analyze trends
for planning. To build local management capacity, the project would assist Kandep/Kanin and
Kanwil staff in developing information systems to analyze trends and identify problems. The
project would finance local and overseas technical assistance; incountry training; computers
and other equipment; the development, printing, and purchase of materials; office supplies;
and computer software. To support project management in Central Java, the project would
finance administrative operational costs and salaries, incountry training, and local and
overseas technical assistance.
3.15   Yogyakarta (estimated base costs of $25.2 million). As a result of its broad coverage
at the junior secondary level and its declining cohort population, Yogyakarta would focus on
improving quality rather than expanding access.  Innovative approaches in improving
schooling and teaching technologies would be implemented and evaluated, and the province
would participate in international comparisons of educational achievement.
3.16   Access.  No new schools or classrooms would be built under the project in
Yogyakarta, although specialized teaching rooms would be added to existing schools to
strengthen their teaching capacity (see Quality). The project would address remaining poverty
constraints to access by providing scholarships to 3,200 low-income students with high
academic achievement under the national scholarship program. The project would also
provide the public with information about the benefits of junior secondary education and
options for schooling their children, particularly in remaining pockets of lower enrollment.
3.17   Quality. Now that most young people are in school, Yogyakarta wants to improve
education quality to prepare them to respond to changes in the economy and society.
Yogyakarta's experience and lessons learned would serve to guide other parts of the country
in the future. To improve the quality of junior and senior secondary education, Yogyakarta
would implement several types of activities. First, the province would provide existing
schools with better teaching facilities, including specialized teaching rooms - including
computer rooms, language laboratories, science laboratories, libraries, and audiovisual aid
rooms - at selected schools. The second main area is staff development. About a third of the
province's public and private school teachers would receive either PKG training or continued
support through MGMP subject teacher associations. A majority of science and other subject
teachers and librarians would receive specialized training, including training in the use of
education technology. Third, the supply of instructional tools in public and private school



26               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
classrooms -including reference and library books, science materials, audiovisual aids, and
computers -would be increased. In addition, new types of education equipment would be
gradually introduced and evaluated in selected schools through training and technical
assistance, and key staff would investigate emerging technologies used in other countries
through overseas training. Fourth, ongoing efforts in international as well as classroom
assessments of student performance, and academic projects of individual public and private
students and school teams, would be supported.
3.18   Education Management. Because of the new directions Yogyakarta is taking to
improve quality, the provincial education staff's ability to evaluate the effectiveness of
introduced measures is especially important. The project would also assist Yogyakarta in its
new management and planning functions. To improve management of schools, school
administrators would receive management training. The project would finance local and
overseas technical assistance; incountry training; computers and other equipment; the
development, printing, and purchase of materials; office supplies; and computer software. To
support project management, the project would finance administration operational costs and
salaries, incountry training, and local and foreign technical assistance.
3.19   Central Kalimantan (estimated base costs of $20.3 million). The scale of the Central
Kalimanitan's expansion of school places would be small, but would be aimed at difficult
areas with poor populations where adequate private schooling is not viable. The project
would also aim to improve the quality of rural schools and provide open schooling for a
limited number of students who cannot attend regular schools.
3.20   Access. Under the project, Central Kalimantan would create about 8,400 school
places. To increase access in rural areas with small, scattered populations, the project would
build, furnish, and equip 53 SMP Kecils ("small SMPs") with three classrooms, accounting
for about three-quarters of new places provided under the project. The Government would
acquire land for these schools as part of total project costs. Districts with low enrollment rates
and villages classified as poor would receive priority. The main advantage of the SMP Kecil
is that it would allow the services of traditional schools to be provided to underserved areas of
poverty that have relatively small numbers of potential students, particularly girls, in the
catchment area. To help attract and retain good teachers and principals in such areas, grants
for community construction of a total of 160 residences also would be supported under the
project for public and private schools. For some remote areas that have high drop-out rates
and irregular attendance because of difficulties in commuting to school, the project would
provide grants for community construction of 40 dormitories. This effort would be provided
selectively to communities where there is good justification and where contribution from the
community is evident. For schools that have insufficient teachers and have trouble attracting
staff, contract teachers would be hired. The project would also modestly expand the SMP
Terbuka program through the provision of learning and reference books to about 2,000
students and teachers, and by financing operating costs. Scholarships would be provided to
2,000 low-income students per year. The project would also provide for the development of
public information about the benefits of junior secondary education and local options for
schooling.



Staff Appraisal Report                           27
3.21   Quality. To improve teacher skills and knowledge, the project would provide
inservice PKG training to about 1,225 teachers, as well as MGMP and other training to 1,450
of the province's 4,300 teachers, including training in content of core subjects, identification
of learning weaknesses, and classroom assessment methods. In addition, teacher instructors
would receive training in subject areas to strengthen the PKG program in the province. For
remote areas, the PKG program would be modified to local circumstances - for example, by
financing three two-week courses annually and teams to spend two or more days helping not
just teachers in PKG training but all teachers at a remote school. The program would also
integrate principals into the training program so they can provide systematic onservice
support to teachers in their schools. To improve the quality of science instruction, the project
would provide science equipment to both public and private schools in rural areas. All
schools in these areas would be classified to determine their potential for using different types
of equipment, and a variety of packages would be developed to suit their needs. The majority
of schools in the project, which are generally rural and poor, would receive fairly simple
equipment. These schools would also receive other teaching aids and equipment. The project
would provide about 600,000 reference and library books and would build libraries at 18
existing schools without them. Examinations item banks, storing of examinations, and
techniques for analyzing learning weaknesses would be developed through local technical
assistance to improve student achievement and to feed the results of student assessment back
to the classroom level. Annex I I provides details of these programs.
3.22   In this province, the addition of student and teacher accommodation would help
promote access of girls in areas where this is still a problem. It would be easier to attract and
retain female teachers and students in these areas especially when combined with
scholarships, contract teacher positions and quality improvement of private/community
schools.
3.23   Education Management. To strengthen the province's ability to take on additional
planning and management responsibility, the project would assist Kanwil and Kandep/Kanin
staff in developing and making better use of its information systems. The project would also
strengthen the flow of usable information among schools and education authorities in schools,
districts, provinces, and Jakarta, in part by expanding the use of technologies that reduce the
distance barrier in isolated areas. School principals would be provided with school
management training. To improve educational management, the project would finance local
and overseas technical assistance; incountry training; computers and other equipment; the
development, printing, and purchase of materials; office supplies; and computer software. To
support project management in Central Kalimantan, the project would finance administrative
operational costs and salaries, incountry training and local and overseas technical assistance.
3.24   West Kalimantan (estimated base costs of $23.5 million). Like Central Kalimantan,
West Kalimantan would have to implement a wide variety of strategies to improve access and
quality in areas of low population density. The project would expand enrollment in remote
and low income areas by 14,000 places through the construction of smaller schools and the
modest expansion of nonconventional education.



28               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
3.25  Access. West Kalimantan faces many of the same problems of access as Central
Kalimantan, though the population density is higher and the private school system is more
extensive. The province can begin to take advantage of improving transportation networks.
For remote areas of poverty that the private sector does not and is unlikely to cover, the
project would fund the construction and furnishing of 50 three-classroom SMP Kecils, which
would serve 6,000 male and female students. For more populated rural areas and sites that
are better served by road or water, the province would build, furnish, and equip 20 six-
classroom SMPs, which would serve 4,800 students. The cost to Government of acquiring
land for schools would be included in total project costs. The project would conduct
feasibility studies for SMP Terbuka and create about 3,000 Terbuka male and female student
places where distance or cost is a constraint, though the provision of educational materials
and operations funds. For students who are willing to live away from home to attend the
nearest school, grants for community construction of 20 student dormitories would be
supported where there is a demonstrated interest. For schools that do not have enough
qualified teachers, the project would finance the hiring of contract teachers for limited periods
and support grants for community construction of 34 teacher accommodations to attract
permanent teachers. Scholarships under the national program would be extended annually to
4,200 low-income students with high achievement. The project would also provide for the
development of information to inform the public about the benefits of junior secondary
education and local schooling opportunities.
3.26   Quality. To improve teacher quality, West Kalimantan is giving particular attention
to its rural public and private school teachers, many of whom are undertrained and need
ongoing support. About 360 teachers would receive PKG training and another 1,800 would
receive local MGMP training in subject areas. Because many of its rural teachers start from a
weak base, West Kalimantan would upgrade teachers without the DIII qualification (those
with DI and DII) through Open University courses. The project would support efforts to
retain teachers in rural areas not only by providing more training and better housing (see
above), but also by financing and studying the benefits of an existing teacher rotation scheme
designed to bring about more balanced and equitable distribution of teachers. To improve the
quality and effectiveness of the expanding SMP Terbuka program, its tutors and
administrators would be upgraded. As in Central Kalimantan, the project would also provide
reference and library books, simple laboratory equipment, and teaching materials to improve
quality at both public and private schools. New libraries would be built at 15 selected existing
schools.  Local technical assistance would support the development of examinations
databases, educational studies, and evaluations, and to encourage greater use of student
assessment at the school level. As in Central Kalimantan, the access and quality interventions
would help reduce gender disparities in participation in junior secondary education where this
still exists.
3.27   Education Management. Like Central Kalimantan, West Kalimantan faces challenges
in monitoring and maintaining two-way communications with schools in remote areas. The
project would assist Kandeps/Kanin, and Kanwils, and the central MOEC in developing
better information systems for monitoring and planning. School administrators would also
receive inservice training. To support these interventions, the project would finance local and
overseas technical assistance; incountry training; computers and other equipment; the



Staff Appraisal Report                           29
development, printing, and purchase of materials; office supplies; and computer software to
support. To support project management in West Kalimantan, the project would finance
administrative operational costs and salaries, incountry training, and local and overseas
technical assistance.
3.28   Central Management Support (estimated base costs of $4.8 million). The project
would support this coordinating and advisory role of the central MOEC directorate for
primary and secondary education in Jakarta. The project would fund technical assistance,
local staff training, and operational costs for project management, public information,
monitoring, supervision, and evaluation for these offices. This coordinating unit, funded
initially under this project with supplementary funding as necessary under future projects,
would also assist with the implementation of other proposed Bank-funded projects under the
junior secondary education program, particularly the East Java and East Nusa Tenggara
Junior Secondary Education Project. Computers and the development and maintenance of
Dikmenum's management information systems would also be provided, particularly to
enhance its communications and joint planning efforts with each of the Kanwils.
Project Supportfor Private Education
3.29   The project would devote a substantial amount of resources to improve the quality
and management of private education. This would help reduce the disparity between public
and private education and encourage parents to view private schooling as a worthwhile
option. Specifically, private schools would benefit directly from: (a) funding of contract
teachers for rural schools; (b) teacher in-service training; (c) provision of teaching equipment
and materials; (d) provision of reference and library books; (e) provision of building materials
for community construction of student dormitories and teacher residences at isolated schools
in Kalimantan; (f) management training for school principals; and (g) support for innovative
quality initiatives to be piloted in Yogyakarta province. In addition, private schools would
benefit indirectly from such project activities as improved Kanwil management, monitoring,
and evaluation of schools and students; and the construction of public schools, whose
facilities are often used after-hours for private schooling through teacher associations. The
effectiveness of public assistance would be increased by reducing abuse of public support
through better monitoring of schools. Self-supporting "equivalent" private schools and rent-
seeking private schools would not receive project funding, while viable schools with the
potential to increase enrollment and quality would receive support at about twice the level of
previous Government efforts.
3.30 These efforts are in line with Government policy (explicitly stated in Repelita VI) that
private schools should maintain and even increase their share of total junior secondary
enrollments. The public sector already devotes significant amounts of resources to support
and improve the quality of private schools.  Government support currently includes
secondment of public sector teachers to private schools, distribution of approved textbooks
free of charge, and operational cost subsidies to private schools at the lower end of financial
viability. Funding is usually lower for quality inputs such as teacher training and distribution
of equipment, so project financing in such areas would expand the regular program (See
Annex 12).



30                Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
D.  PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
3.31   The economic analysis conducted for the project consisted of: (a) analysis of
educational demand and the rationale for public investment in junior secondary education;
(b) fiscal analysis; (c) review of alternatives; and (d) cost-benefit analysis. Details are
provided in Annex 7.
3.32   There are both efficiency and equity grounds for additional public intervention in
junior secondary education in Indonesia today. It is primarily the poor and near-poor (and
mostly those in rural areas) who are not enrolling in school and whose participation declined
in the late 1980s to early 1990s. One of the primary factors explaining the low demand during
that period is the high direct costs of education. A second factor is indirect (opportunity) costs
which exacerbated the effect of high direct costs. Coupled with stagnant real wages in the
1980s and the effects of cuts in public expenditure on basic education in the mid-1980s
(school construction came to a virtual halt), these factors contributed to faltering demand. The
past two years have seen the reversal of these trends as enrollment rates have risen
significantly in all provinces.
3.33   Since investment in junior secondary education is desirable on both efficiency and
equity grounds, the key questions for the Government are the budgetary implications of the
expansion and how to expand the system. The budgetary implications of the expansion are
sizable ($7.6 billion; see Annex 7 and para. 1.9), but estimation shows that the policy is
attainable if the economy continues to grow at the rate attained in recent decades, additional
funds are made available to junior secondary including external borrowing (para. 1.9), and the
private sector retains its current significant share.
3.34   Analysis of alternatives considered the role of the private sector in the expansion
program and the fiscal implications of mainly public expansion versus one which made room
for private expansion at the current rate of 40 percent of enrollments in private schools. The
budgetary implications double in the first scenario ($14.5 billion compared to $7.6 billion).
There are additional merits to preserving the private sector. First, given the current and
projected surplus of teachers, a robust private sector is an effective means for helping to clear
the market for teachers. Second, Madrasah schools (religious schools which currently enroll
about 20 percent of junior secondary students) offer access to junior secondary in small, poor
communities and at a cost that is significantly lower than even MOEC-supervised private
schools. These schools also enroll a higher proportion of girls than boys, reflecting the
preference pattern of some families for non-secular education. Third, maintaining the share of
private schools at the junior secondary level establishes the basis for sustaining the even
larger share of private schools at the senior secondary level (54 percent of enrollments in
1993/94).



StaffAppraisal Report                              31
3.35   Beyond the public/private alternatives, the Government has experimented with
alternative modes of delivering junior secondary education (in respect of the regular SMP
model). These include SMP Kecil and SMP Terbuka. While not entirely substitutes for each
other (or to the regular SMPs), and experimentation to improve their quality is still ongoing,
preliminary unit cost comparisons indicate that gains can be achieved by utilizing these less
costly alternative models of junior secondary education in rural and remote areas.
3.36   The economic rate of return for the project investment is estimated by province and
component (increasing access and enhancing quality, but excluding the management
component). The estimates are obtained by solving for the internal rate of return that equates
a stream of benefits and costs resulting from the investment over a thirty year horizon. The
benefits of the projects are derived from the increased numbers of students enrolled in junior
secondary in any given year, but also include the additional stream of students expected to
proceed to senior secondary and tertiary education. A monetary value of the benefits of each
stream of beneficiaries is estimated using the difference in wages between one level of
education and the next. Benefits will also accrue from investments in enhancing the quality of
junior secondary. A benchmark assumption of a 15 percent additional wage premium earned
by a higher quality graduate is made. High returns were found for both quality and access
components, with returns on quality enhancements generally higher than for expansion of
access, particularly in Central Kalimantan and West Kalimantan, as noted in Table 3.1 below:
Table 3.1
Rates of Return to Project Investments by Component and Province
C.omponent     Central Java    Yogyakarta    Central Kalimantan  West Kalimantan
Access              18.0           14.3*            12.1               13.8
Quality             17.7           16.5             20.3               22.9
Total               18.0           15.8             14.8               17.2
+ Provision of scholarships to poor and capable students. No additional building of school places will be carried out by project.
3.37   Simulations were run varying some of the underlying assumptions. In all, the main
variables to which the system appears to be most sensitive to are those affecting quality. This
is not surprising given the large numbers of beneficiaries which are impacted by this
investment. Sensitivity analysis reveals, for example, that (a) the rate of return for quality
inputs declines from 23 to 18 percent in West Kalimantan if only a 10 percent increase in
additional wage premium for higher quality graduates is assumed; (b) the rate of return
declines from 23 to 20 percent if incremental recurrent costs for quality improvements in
West Kalimantan increases from $8 per student to $10; and (c) the rate of return for access
inputs in Central Java increases from 18 to 19 percent if the junior secondary-primary wage
differential increases by 20 percent.



32               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Impact on Poverty
3.38   Those not enrolled in junior secondary today are predominantly from the lowest four
income deciles. The project will reach these poor and near-poor through its poverty-targeted
sub-components. Scholarships will be awarded annually to approximately 34,000 poor (and
capable) students. Smaller schools in Kalimantan and regular schools in Central Java, a total
of 45,000 school places, will be built in rural areas, with priority given to the poorest villages.
Another 11,000 places in alternative programs, which are free to parents, will benefit areas
where direct and opportunity costs are highest. In all, the project will contribute to offsetting
the geographical and financial obstacles barring poorer children from junior secondary
schools, thus reducing social inequality in education access.
Impact on Women
3.39   Enrollment figures by province reveal no great disparities between male and female
participation in junior secondary education in the four project provinces. In 1994/95, females
accounted for 48-50 percent of total enrollment in the provinces and about 49 percent of the
cohort populations. Kabupaten-level data suggest that there may be somewhat more
significant disparities in certain pockets of the project provinces, particularly in rural areas.
In some kabupaten of Central Java and Central Kalimantan, for example, females account for
42 to 45 percent of total enrollment. Distance from home to school is one of the main reasons
for local disparities - parents are often reluctant to allow their daughters to travel far to
school. The following components can be expected to improve female access to junior
secondary schools: (a) expansion of school places in rural areas, where female
participation is lowest; (b) significant expansion of the SMP Kecil in rural communities
in the Kalimantan provinces; (c) expansion of SMP Terbuka programs in Kalimantan and
Central Java; (d) scholarships to low-income students, with priority given to girls; and (e)
quality improvements at private schools, including Madrasahs which usually has a higher
female enrollment.
E.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Background
3.40   Project design and the proposed management arrangements for this project are firmly
rooted in lessons of experience from earlier Bank-financed education projects, especially the
Second Secondary Education and Management Project (Loan 3158-[ND), which included a
pilot operation on which the design of the proposed project is based. During preparation the
emphasis has been on institutional changes: (a) strengthening participatory features;
(b) strengthening province-level implementation with respect to sector analysis, project
design and implementation; and (c) strengthening the national-level implementation capacity.
Because of the importance of these elements for project design, they are summarized below
and discussed in detail in Annex 13.



StaffAppraisal Report                            33
Participatory Features
3.41   Beneficiary participation has been a major element of project design. A milestone
was reached in this respect in December 1994 when the Secondary Education Directorate
(Dikmenum) with Bank assistance conducted a two-day seminar with a large group of
stakeholders. This seminar helped: (a) define the objectives of the earlier pilot project and its
successor (the proposed project); (b) review options for project management structures and
responsibilities; (c) review options for implementation procedures; and (d) especially, seek a
consensus among seminar participants on implementation of the above.
3.42   Subsequent sectoral analysis and project development under the proposed project has
built on experiences from this workshop. Several workshops on sectoral issues, project
design and institutional framework have subsequently been conducted at different times and
locations. The result is a series of provincially organized project proposals that have been
developed with major involvement from the stakeholders: province- and district-level
education officers (Kanwils and Kandeps/Kanin), parent organizations (BP3), schools and
educational societies (yayasans).
3.43   Beneficiary participation will continue throughout project implementation. During
implementation, communities will participate in project development through regular
meetings at the sub-district level attended by members of parents' associations (BP3), school
principals, village chiefs, religious leaders, and community social-service workers. These
meetings will propose and evaluate possible project activities appropriate to local conditions
and consistent with local needs. Sub-district proposals would be submitted through the
Kandep/Kanin to the Provincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU) for its review against
agreed criteria and possible inclusion in the project.
3.44   A key concept of the proposed project is that detailed annual work programs would
be prepared each year. The costs and details of the outer implementation years would not be
considered firm until an annual budgeting and evaluation process has taken place through a
bottom-up planning process each implementation year. This process is consistent with
existing Government procedures, but under the proposed project the involvement of project
beneficiaries in this process would be explicitly strengthened.
Province-Level Implementation
3.45   Provincial Structure. Provincial involvement in sectoral analysis and project design
has shown that there is a rapidly growing capacity to implement the proposed project. During
preparation, Kanwil staff conducted sectoral analyses, commissioned preparation reports from
lower administrative tiers, and appraised and revised these reports prior to discussions with
Bank missions. Because of these rapidly developing human capabilities, the project would be
implemented through existing line authorities at the Kanwil level. There would be no
expansion of staff positions, and the administrative structures would remain unchanged.
Project-specific task forces, commensurate with the focus and complexity of each of the four
provincial sub-projects, would be established and disbanded as and when necessary during
project implementation. This concept is not only viable: it embodies the ongoing concept of



34                Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
empowering and engaging provincial staff in sectoral analysis and project preparation. (See
Annex 13 for Terms of Reference and the organizational structure for project management at
the provincial level.)
3.46   To lend a focal point to the operation, the Kakanwil, would be the Project Director. A
senior staff (such as Kabid-Dikmenum or someone under his/her supervision) would be the
Project Manager and would be responsible directly for implementation and management of
the project. A high-level Provincial Project Advisory Committee, headed by the head of the
Kanwil would give guidance to project implementors.  The committee would include
members from the senior-most tiers of the public and private provincial education system and
other Government agencies (see Annex 13 for membership). A technical resource group in
each province would assist in technical matters. It would have access to consultants and other
expertise as required.
3.47   Under the PPIU there would typically be the following five divisions to carry out the
following functions: (a) Procurement and Civil Works; (b) Quality Improvement;
(c) Accounting; (d) Progress Monitoring; and (e) Supervision and Evaluation. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would establish by November 1, 1996
(i) a Provincial Project Advisory Committee and (ii) a Provincial Project Implementation
Unit in each of the project provinces.
3.48   Review and Criteria for Annual Project Activities. The  PPIU would review
submitted proposals against explicit and well-advertised criteria. On completion of its review
in October each year, the PPIU would: (a) discuss the technical merits and scope of the
proposals with a Bank mission; and (b) submit the results and the proposed next-year budget
to the Provincial Project Advisory Committee for its approval.  Before submission to
Bappenas, the Provincial Project Advisory Committee would submit the proposal for
endorsement by the national education authorities in Jakarta to ensure consistency with
agreed Government and Bank policies, criteria, procedures and project magnitudes.
3.49   Selection  criteria would  include: (i) completeness; (ii) relevance; (iii) cost-
effectiveness; (iv) sustainability; and (v) implementability. Proposals would be reviewed for
completeness to test whether they are sufficiently developed to constitute sub-projects with
clearly defined objectives, inputs, costs, timetables and action plans. The relevance of the
submitted proposals would be tested against any of the stated objectives of the project,
especially poverty reduction, and taking into account known implementation constraints. The
cost-effectiveness merits of submitted proposals would be tested against alternatives for
delivering comparable educational service. The long-term sustainability of the proposals
would be tested against their implications for recurrent costs in the Government's budget, and
their likely implications for long-term effects on households in the affected communities.
The implementability of the submitted proposal would be reviewed against institutional,
managerial and other non-financial constraints.



Staff Appraisal Report                        35
National-level Implementation
3.50   Guided by a Central Program Advisory Committee, Dikmenum would be the
principal national level project implementation agency (see Annex 13 for proposed
organizational structure and Terms of Reference). Its role would be that of project oversight
and facilitation -- not implementation.  Dikmenum  would: (a) ensure that provincial
implementation focuses on achieving agreed project objectives; (b) assist the provinces in
establishing appropriate annual work plans; (c) help ensure timely preparation of regional
project budgets (DIP); (d) assist in establishing appropriate management information systems
at Kanwil and national levels; (e) disseminate pertinent information to the provinces; and (f)
identify or provide technical assistance to the provinces to ensure compliance with agreed
project-specific rules and regulations.
3.51   Dikmenum would help design and implement national and provincial capacity-
building plans as the project unfolds. This would include establishing appropriate project
information systems and procedures on the principle that relevant information from one
system would feed into the next system, and that there would be meaningful back and forth
flow of information across administrative levels. These would include: (a) budgeting
systems; (b) accounting; (c) procurement; (d) process indicators; and (e) project outcome
indicators. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would establish by
November 1, 1996 (i) a Central Program Advisory Committee and (ii) a Central Program
Coordination Unit.
3.52   Budgeting Systems. All project budgets (the DIP -- Government and Bank) would
be channeled annually to the provinces in accordance with normal Government investment
budgeting procedures.  The provinces would arrange payments to contractors through
standard Government procedures. Payments would be authorized by provincial Treasury
offices of the Ministry of Finance in accordance with existing well-established procedures.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it would, not later than
October I each year (beginning in 1997), furnish to the Bank for comments a report on the
implementation of the budget for the past and current fiscal years, and the proposed budget
for the following fiscal year.
3.53   Project accounts. Accounts would be established in such a way that meaningful
information about unit costs of project activities could be obtained as the project progresses.
To assist in this, an Indonesian accounting firm would be hired for a period of about three
months.
3.54   Procurement Documents and Procedures. The Central Program Coordination Unit
(CPCU) in Dikmenum would establish appropriate procurement documents and procedures
under the proposed project and provide appropriate technical assistance in this respect to the
provinces. This process has started with respect to the procurement documents for equipment
which were developed under the pilot part of the Second Secondary Education and
Management Project (Loan 3158-IND).



36               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
3.55  Project Implementation Handbook.  For the day-by-day practice of project
implementation, the CPCU, PPIU and Kandep/Kanin staff will rely upon a Project
Implementation Handbook. Written in Bahasa Indonesia, the Handbook will describe in
details and in concrete terms the methodology, procedures and multiple steps of project
implementation and project monitoring. Its content will draw mostly from the Staff Appraisal
Report and Legal Documents, GOI and Bank procurement and disbursement guidelines, and
will seek to emulate the best practices in the country. The Handbook is expected to: (a)
become the key and uniform point of reference for all levels of project management; (b)
provide users with ready answer for problem solving; and (c) offset the relative lack of
experience with project management at the provincial level. Dikmenum is coordinating the
preparation of the handbook.
F.    MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Performance Indicators
3.56   Process Indicators. An Implementation Monitoring System would in part be fed by
information from the accounting system. It would also include information about non-
financial progress in the project, such as deliveries of educational materials and numbers of
teachers trained.
3.57   Project Outcome Indicators.  The outcomes of the proposed project would be
monitored throughout its implementation through four key indicators. In addition to the
above education indicators, the efficiency of various parts of the system would be measured
through ongoing econometric studies.
3.58   The project's performance indicators (Annex 15) were discussed and agreed with the
Government during negotiations. Progress in implementing the project is to be assessed
through monitoring indicators and formative evaluation using the detailed performance
indicators. Additionally outcome indicators have been identified to guide development
impact evaluation. Dikmenum would undertake the monitoring and formative evaluation as
well as required technical audits. The above indicators would also form the basis of
supervision by the Bank (the supervision plan is summarized in Annex 16).
Reports
3.59   Progress Reports. The PPIU in each of the project provinces would prepare half
yearly reports on project implementation which would include a description of
implementation of each component including discussion of any issues, delays or changes; an
updated list of performance indicators; actions on recommendations of the previous Bank
Supervision Missions; a list of all contract activities, and a set of tables covering:
expenditures, training and technical assistance activities, civil works activities, and an update
of project the implementation schedule. Annex 14 provides guidelines for preparation of the
progress report.



Staff Appraisal Report                          37
3.60   Annual and Midterm Reviews. The timing of the annual review will be coordinated
with the annual budget preparation cycle. The first review will cover the period up to March
31, 1998. These reviews will summarize the status of project interventions, project activities
on the basis of project indicators, major implementation problems, and the revised
implementation plan for the following year. The midterm review and assessment will be in
October 1999. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would
implement policies and procedures to enable adequate project monitoring and evaluation in
accordance with agreed indicators and (i) prepare a report by July 31 each year (beginning
in 1997) on monitoring and evaluation activities during the previous year and
recommendations for the following year; (ii) prepare a midterm report on or about July 31,
1999; and (iii) discuss these reports with the Bank by October 31 of the same fiscal year.
3.61   Implementation Completion Report. At the completion of the project, MOEC
would compile an Implementation Completion Report within six months of the closing date
of the loan. This report will summarize, among other things, (a) program activities in terms
of input, process, and output indicators; (b) an assessment of project activities; (c) the
project's financial status; and (d) implementation issues and recommendations.  During
Negotiations, the Government agreed to furnish to the Bank within six months after the
project closing date a plan designed to ensure the continued effectiveness of the project
objectives.
3.62   Technical Audits. To ensure accountability to the Government, the World Bank,
schools, and the general public, a technical audit of the various project components would be
performed annually. The technical audit would be carried out by an independent consultant
with no association with the project and employing specialists with expertise in (a) secondary
education administration and finance in Indonesia; (b) the management and distribution of
project inputs; (c) school construction; and (d) educational equipment and materials. The
goal of the technical audits would be to provide an independent and impartial assessment of
the quality and adequacy of procedures and processes employed by MOEC in Jakarta and the
project provinces.  The audit team would examine the efficiency and effectiveness of
implementation by the provinces and the support provided by the center. The team would
also assess to what extent project inputs are being distributed to target areas and groups
according to agreed criteria. The team would examine whether Kanwil and Kandep/Kanin
staff are performing as reported, whether they have the skills required, and whether
equipment and technical assistance provided are adequate and being used as reported. The
audits would include a sample check of documentation and selected site visits (about two per
year) to compare reality in the field against reports submitted and to ensure compliance with
accounting, procurement, and reporting guidelines. At negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that it would carry out annual technical audits of project implementation and
provide them to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
3.63   Studies. Evaluation studies of the project processes and outcomes would be included
in the project to enable GOI and the Bank to assess the impact and cost effectiveness of this
project and related projects. A monitoring and evaluation expert will help GOI design the
studies to help measure the effect of the project's quality and access components on target



38               Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
populations. Other measures that would be employed include user surveys and studies by
anthropologists on the effect and appropriateness of project interventions in local settings.



Staff Appraisal Report                            39
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS
4.1    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$154.1 million equivalent (Rp 359.3 billion),
including price contingencies and identifiable taxes and duties. Tables 4.1 and 4.2 summarize the
estimated costs by project component and by category of expenditure. Annex 18 shows further
details on project costs.
4.2    Bases of Cost Estimates. Base costs are estimated using April 1996 prices. Construction
costs are based on the most recent cost estimates per square meter of simple construction that the
Government planning ministry (Bappenas) publishes each year for each district (kabupaten). An
allowance of 8 percent over the latest (1994) figures has been included to update the estimates.
Science and office equipment costs are based on recent costs available from the Second Secondary
Education and Management Project. Learning and teaching materials costs are based on similar items
recently procured in other education projects in Indonesia. Costs for domestic consultants are in line
with recent education projects for appropriately qualified experts. Costs of travel, per diem and
honoraria are consistent with current Government figures and recent education projects and have been
agreed between the Bank and the Government. Costs for short-term in-country training are derived
from experiences in the Second Secondary Education and Management Project. These costs vary
widely by the type of training, travel distance and training, ranging from $35 to $200, averaging
about US$50. Scholarship grants are about $130 per person-year.
4.3    Contingency Allowances. The project consists of a large number of items of small
monetary value. Because the exact number of these items is not vital to the success of the project, no
physical contingencies have been included. Price contingencies (US$22.8 million equivalent, which
represents 17% of total baseline costs) have been calculated at 8.7 percent per year for local costs
and 2.4 percent per year for international costs.
4.4    Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs have been estimated at US$35.9 million
(representing about 23 percent of total costs). These costs are based on the following percentages:
(a) construction and fumiture, 30 percent; (b) equipment, 70 percent; (c) foreign consultants, 80
percent, (d) in-country training, learning and teaching materials and travel costs, 15 percent; and
(e) local consultancies, 10 percent.
4.5    Taxes and Duties. Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at US$6.5 million equivalent
based on the current 10 percent value added tax on all goods and materials. It would be financed
entirely by the Government of Indonesia.



40                     Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Table 4.1a: Project Cost Summary by Component by Province (US$ million)
Central    Central      West                Cent. Prog.
Component                              Java    Kalimantan Kalimantan  Yogyakarta Mgmt. Supp.        Total
Increase Access
New Schools                               14.0         7.5       12.1         0.0        0.0        33.6
Alternative Equivalency Programs           2.1         0.7        1.1        0.0         0.0         3.9
Student Scholarships                       9.5        0.9         1.6         1.3        0.0        13.3
Student & Teacher Accommodation            0.0        4.4         0.8        0.0         0.0         5.2
Social Marketing                           0.3       0.05        0.05       0.05         0.2         0.6
Contract Teachers                          1.9         0.9        0.9         0.0        0.0         3.7
Subtotal                                27.6        14.5       16.6         1.4        0.2        60.3
Improve Quality
Teacher Training                           4.7         0.6        4.3         2.7        0.0        12.3
Tools for Effective Teaching              21.2         3.7        0.9        17.0        0.0        42.8
Student Performance Assessment             0.0        0.1         0.4       0.06         0.0         0.6
Special Initiatives                        0.0        0.0         0.0        2.5         0.0         2.5
Subtotal                                25.9         4.4        5.6        22.3        0.0        58.2
Strengthen Education Management
Forecasting, Planning & Monitoring         2.8       0.01        0.02       0.01         0.2         3.0
Secondary Education Info. System          0.03       0.01        0.01       0.01         0.4         0.5
School to Kandep/Kanwil Information       0.02       0.01        0.01       0.01         0.1         0.1
Information Technology Support             0.4       0.10         0.1       0.10         0.2         0.9
School Management                          0.0        0.5         0.3        0.6         0.0         1.4
Subtotal                                 3.2         0.7        0.5         0.7        0.8         5.9
Support Project Management
Project Management                         0.9        0.7         0.8        0.8         3.8         7.0
Subtotal                                 0.9         0.7        0.8         0.8        3.8         7.0
Total Base Cost                         57.6        20.3       23.5        25.2        4.8       131.4
Physical Contingencies                      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                        10.5         3.2        3.6        4.6         0.9        22.8
Total Project Costs                     68.0        23.5       27.1        29.8        5.7       154.1
% of Total Project Costs                     44         15          18         19           4        100
Columns may not add up due to rounding.



Staff Appraisal Report                                                  41
Table 4.1b: Project Cost Summary - Local and Foreign by Component
(Rps. Million)                  (USS '000)               %         % Tot-l
Foreign      Base
Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange       Costs
A. Central Java
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. New Schools                             23,530     8,949    32,479     10,094     3,839    13,933         28          11
b. Alternative Equivalency Programs        4.137        720     4,857      1,775       309      2,084        15           2
c. Student Scholarships                    22,046         -    22,046      9,458          -     9,458          -          7
d. Social Marketing                      .   500         84       584        214        36       251         14
e. ContractTeachers                         3,881       431     4,313      1,665       185      1,850        10           1
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS              54,094    10,184    64,278    23,206       4,369    27,575         16          21
2. Improve Quality
a.TeacherTraining                           9.361     1.652    11,013      4,016       709      4,725        15           4
b. Tools for Effective Teaching           28,953    20,360    49,313    12,421       8,734    21,155         41          16
Subtotal Improve Quality                     38.314    22.012    60,326      16,437     9,443    25,880         36          20
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring      5,500      960      6,460      2,360       412      2,771        15           2
b. Secondary Education Info. System           54         11        65        23          5        28         17           -
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information        46          8        54        20          3        23         1 5
d. Information Technology Support            454       484        938        195       207       402         52           -
Subtotal Strengthen Education                 6,054      1,462     7,516      2,597       627      3,225        19           2
Management
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management            1,864      207      2,071       800         89       888         10           1
Subtotal Central Java                          100,326    33,865   134,191    43,040      14,528    57,568        25          44
B. Central Kalimantan
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. New Schools                             12.720     4,770    17,490      5,457     2,046      7,503        27           6
b. Alternative Equivalency Programs         1.394      242       1,635      598        104       701         15           1
c. Student Scholarships                     2,096         -     2,096       899          -       899          -           I
d. Student& Teacher Accommodation           9,258     1,029    10,287      3,972       441      4,413        10           3
e. Social Marketing                          101         16       117        43          7         50        14           -
f. ContractTeachers                         1,941      216      2,156       833         93       925         10           1
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS              27,509      6,272    33,781     11,802     2,691     14,492        19          11
2. Improve Quality
a.TeacherTraining                           1,109       196      1,305      476         84       560         15           -
b. Tools for Effective Teaching            6,548      2,148     8,696      2,809       921      3,730        25           3
c. Student Performance Assessment            243         27       270        104        12        116        10           -
Subtotal Improve Quality                      7,901      2,370    10,271      3,389     1,017     4,406         23           3
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring        27          4        32         12         2         14        14           -
b. Secondary Education Info. System           19          5        23          8         2         10        20
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information        10          2        12          4         1          5        14
d. Information Technology Support            104        107       211        45         46        91         51
e. School Management                        1,086       192      1,278      466         82       548         15           -
Subtotal Strengthen Education                 1,246       310      1,556       535        133       668         20           1
Management
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management            1,514       172      1,687      650         74       724         10           1
Subtotal Central Kalimantan                     38,171     9,124    47,295     16,375     3,914    20,290         19          15
C. West Kalimantan
I. Increase Access to JSS
a. New Schools                            20,468      7,786    28,254      8,781     3,340    12,121         28           9
b. Alternative Equivalency Programs         2,313       257     2,570       992        110      1,102        10           I
c. Student Scholarships                    3,795          -     3,795      1,628         -      1,628         -           I
d. Student& TeacherAccommodation            1,631       181      1,812      700         78       777         10           I
e. Social Marketing                          101         16       117        43          7         50        14           -
f.ContractTeachers                          1,941      216      2,156       833         93       925         10           1
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS              30,247      8,456    38,703     12,976     3,628     16,604        22          13



42                         Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Table 4.1b: Project Cost Summary (continued)
(Rps. Million)                  (USS '000)               %         % Total
Foreign      Base
Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange       Costs
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Training                         8,582     1,515    10,097      3,682       650      4,332        15           3
b. Tools for Effective Teaching             1,008     1.007     2,015       432        432       864         50           1
c. StudentPerformance Assessment             914        102      1,015      392         44       435         10
Subtotal Improve Quality                     10,504      2,623    13,127      4,506     1,125      5,631        20           4
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring        30          5        34         13         2         15        14
b. Secondary Education Info. System           20          5        25          9         2         11        20
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information        12          2        13          5         1          6        14
d. Information Technology Support            116        120       236         50        52        101        51
e. School Management                         659        110       769        283        47        330        14
Subtotal Strengthen Education                   836       242      1,078       359        104       463         22
Management
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management            1,758      200      1,958       754         86       840         10           1
Subtotal West Kalimantan                        43.345    11,521    54,866    18,595      4,942    23,537         21          18
D. Yogyakarta
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. Social Marketing                          101         16       117        43          7        50         14
h. Student Scholarships                    3,072          -     3,072      1,318         -      1,318         -           I
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS               3,173         16     3,188      1,361         7      1,368         -           I
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Training                         5,299      935      6,234      2,273       401      2,674        15           2
b. Tools for Effective Teaching           25,092     14,640    39,732    10,764      6,281     17,045        37          13
c. Student Performance Assessment            115         20       135        49          9        58         15           -
d. Special Initiatives                      1,179     4,690     5,870       506      2,012      2,518        80           2
Subtotal Improve Quality                     31,685    20,286    51,970    13,593       8,703    22,295         39          17
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring        25          4        29         11         2         12        13           -
b. Secondary Education Info. System           18          4        22          8         2         9         20           -
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information         9          1        11         4          1          5        14           -
d. Information Technology Support             92         94       186        39         40        80         51           -
e. School Management                        1,175      207      1,383       504         89       593         15           -
Subtotal Strengthen Education                 1,319       312      1,630       566        134       699         19           1
Management
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management            1,702       189      1,891      730         81       811         10           I
Subtotal Yogyakarta                            37,878    20,802    58,680    16,250       8,924    25,174         35          19
E. Central Project Management Support
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. Social Marketing                          413         54       466        177        23       200         12           -
2. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring       319         65       383        137        28        165        17
b. Seconda.y Education Info. System          693        137       830       297         59       356         16
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information       142         72       214        61         31        92         34
d. Information Technology Support            347        181       528        149        77       226         34           -
Subtotal Strengthen Education                 1,501       454      1,955       644        195       839         23           1
Management
3. Central Program Management Support         6,119      2,695     8,814     2,625      1,156     3,781         31           3
Subtotal Central Program Mgmt. Support           8,032     3,203     11,235     3,446     1,374      4,820        29           4
Total BASELINE COSTS                           227,752    78,515   306,267    97,706    33,683    131,389          26         100
Physical Contingencies                            -          -         -         -          -         -          -           -
Price Contingencies                          47,754      5,301    53,055    20,486      2,274    22,760         10         17
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                              275,506    83,816   359,322   118,192    35,957   154,149           23         117



Staff Appraisal Report                                                  43
Table 4.2a: Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditures by Province (US$ million)
Central      Central         West   Yogyakarta  Cent. Program
Category of Expenditures            Java   Kalimantan   Kalimantan       Province  MgLn Support        Total
Land Acquisition                      1.3          0.7           1.0                                    3.0
Civil Works                          19.4         11.6          12.2          7.8                       51.0
Equipment& Furniture                  9.5          0.7          0.6           5.2            0.9        16.9
Education Materials /a                7.5          3.4          0.1           4.2            0.4        15.6
Human Development
In country training/lb               7.4          1.2          4.7           3.5            0.1        16.9
Overseas Training                                                            1.4                        1.4
Domestic Consultants                 0.6          0.4           1.0          0.4            1.8        4.2
International Consultants                                                    0.9            0.5         1.4
Scholarships                         9.5          0.9           1.6          1.4                       13.4
Subtotal Human Development           17.5          2.5          7.2           7.6            2.4       37.2
Contract Teachers                     1.9          0.9          0.9                                      3.7
Operational Costs /c                  0.5          0.5           1.5          0.4            1.1         4.0
Total Base Cost                   57.6          20.3         23.5         25.2             4.8      131.4
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                  10.4          3.2          3.6           4.6            0.9       22.7
Total Project Costs               68.0          23.5         27.1         29.8             5.7      154.1
\a Incl. Library supplies, books, training modules & media materials;  \b Incl. in country training, seminars & workshops
\c Incl. expenditures for travel, per diem, honoraria & consumables; Columns may differ due to rounding
Table 4.2b: Project Cost Summary - Local and Foreign by Category of Expenditure
(Rps. Millions)                 (USS'OOO)                 %       % Total
Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign     Total     Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange   Cos&
-1. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquistion                    6.970          -     6,970      2,990         -      2,990         -         2
B. Civil Works
New Construction                   74,768    32,043    106,812    32,076    13,747    45,822          30        35
Building Matls., Community Works    10,889     1,210    12,099     4,671       519      5,191         10         4
Subtotal Civil Works                 85,657    33,253    118,911    36,747     14,266    51,013         28        39
C. Equipment& Fumiture                13,794    25,618    39,412      5.918    10,990    16,908         65         13
D. Educational Material /a           30,943      5,461    36,404    13,275      2,343     15,617        15         12
E. Human Development
In-country Training/b              33,391      5,893    39,284    14,325      2,528     16,853        15        13
Overseas Training                     158      2,993     3,150        68      1,284      1,351        95         1
Domestic Consultants                8,772       975      9,747     3,763       418      4,181         10         3
International Consultants             633     2,531      3,164       271      1,086     1,357        80          1
Scholarships                       31,301          -    31,301    13,428          -    13,428          -        10
Subtotal Human Development           74,254    12,391    86,645    31,855       5,316    37,171         14        28
F. Contract Teachers                  7,763       863      8,625      3,330       370      3,700        10         3
G. Operational Costs/c                8,371       930      9,301      3,591       399      3,990        10         3
Total BASELINE COSTS                   227.752    78,515   306,267    97,706    33,683   131,389           26       100
Physical Contingencies                     -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -
Price Contingencies                  47,754      5,301    53,055    20,486      2,274    22,760         10         17
Total PROJECT COSTS                    275,506    83,816   359,322    118,192    35,957   154,149          23       117
\a Incl. library supplies, books, training modules and media materials; \b Incl. in-country training, seminars and workshops
\c Inci. expenditures for travel, per diem, honoraria, and consumables



44                 Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
B. FINANCING
4.6    Financing Plan. The project would be financed by a proposed loan, covering 70 percent of
total project costs excluding taxes (100 percent foreign and 58 percent of local expenditures). The
Government would finance the balance of project costs including taxes from its annual budgets. The
incremental recurrent costs of the project would represent a negligible share of the education budget
of the project provinces; representing 1 percent for Central Java and less than 2 percent for both West
and Central Kalimantan (Annex 7). As there will be no expansion in Yogyakarta, the incremental
cost would be insignificant, related only to the quality of education.
Table 4.3: Financing Plan
GOI       IBRD         Total   IBRD %
Land Acquisition                          3.5         0.0          3.5           0
Civil Works                              15.1        35.2         50.3          70
Community Works (Bldg. Materials)         2.0         3.7          5.7          65
Equipment, Furn. & Consumables            3.9        14.6         18.5          79
Educational Materials                     3.9         14.8        18.7          79
In-country Training                       9.9         9.9         19.8          50
Overseas Training                         0.0          1.4         1.4         100
Consultants (Provinces)                   0.0         3.4          3.4         100
Consultants (Jakarta)                     0.6         2.3          2.9          80
Scholarships                              8.0         8.0         16.0          50
Contract Teachers                         0.9         3.7          4.6          80
Operating Costs/a                         0.0         4.9          4.9         100
Unallocated                               2.3         2.1          4.4
Total                                    50.1       104.0        154.1          67
Figures may slightly differ due to rounding
C. PROCUREMENT
4.7    Organization and Management of Procurement. The procurement section of the Kanwil
Office in each province would be in charge of procurement under the general guidance of the
designated project manager (Pimpro) in each province. Whenever necessary (such as in the case of
conducting ICB), the procurement section at the provincial (Kanwil) level could request the
assistance of specialized expertise from the MOEC Secondary Education Directorate (Dikmenum) in
Jakarta.
4.8    With the exception of community-based construction (which would be organized by the
communities themselves), all construction activities would be organized through the Public Works
offices mostly in rural areas. These would be for small, scattered construction contracts totaling
/a Includes expenditures for travel, per diem, allowances and consumable materials, but excludes GOI staff
salaries for project implementation



Staff Appraisal Report                              45
about 800 contracts. About 200 of these contracts would be for 3-9 room schools, the remaining 600
contracts would be smaller still. About 75 percent of these contracts would be less than US$50,000
equivalent. All contracts would be carried out through the use of procurement procedures and
documentation acceptable to the Bank at the provincial level. For contracts between US$50,000 and
$200,000 these rules would be National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures based on the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for Small Works, translated into Bahasa Indonesia. Bidding against a
known reference price would be permitted and foreign bidders would be allowed to participate.
Procurement of small works estimated to cost less than US$50,000, would be carried under local
procurement rules with which all participants in Indonesia are familiar. Despite the fact that these
rules deviate in some respects from the Bank's preferred rules, they are acceptable to the Bank in this
case, given: (a) the tiny size of these contracts; (b) their scattered nature on hundreds of project sites;
and (c) the fact that these works would be carried out two administrative levels down from the
Central Government in Jakarta.
4.9    A built-in procurement supervisory function (para 4.11) would help ensure that the bid
openings would be public and that all the agreed procurement rules would be carried out. With
respect to bid methodology, the planning directorate in Jakarta (Bappenas) keeps and publicizes an
annually updated list of reference prices for the m2 construction of different types of construction in
each district (kabupaten). These unit prices include site works and fees related to the management,
design and supervision of construction. Because the bidding documents spell out the number of
square meters to be constructed and the unit costs (per m2) are known, the bidding is done against a
known reference price. With respect to bid evaluation, only those bids that are in the "brackets"
between the reference price plus 10 percent (top), and 90 percent of the reference price (bottom) are
considered to be responsive bids. Other bids are rejected as non-responsive. This practice would be
accepted for all contracts to be awarded under the project (all of which are expected to be less than
$200,000).
4.10   Construction Procedures and Criteria. Rules for the size and nature of construction items
to be included in the project have been tentatively agreed with the Borrower. These include, that
when building new schools or adding rooms to existing ones, the ratio of auxiliary rooms to the total
number of classrooms at each school would be as follows: Three room schools would be entitled to
receive a small administrative unit. In such schools the teachers room would double as a library. Six
room schools would be entitled to a standard-size administration block and a library. "Full-sized"
(nine-classroom) schools would follow standard Government designs. The design of other rooms
would also be in accordance with the existing, publicized standard designs for such rooms.
4.11   Construction Procurement Oversight. The construction activities for the Project would be
supervised from Dikmenum in Jakarta by a local consulting architect/engineer who would be hired by
this project for the duration of all the project. This project-hired supervisor would be central to the
success of the construction components. The supervisor would be a technical link between local
monitors in the procurement section in each Kanwil, the PCU in Jakarta and the Bank, including in
particular its procurement staff in the Resident Mission in Indonesia (RSI). The TORs of this person
would be to: (a) ensure that the agreed procurement rules are understood and adhered to by all
provincial parties; (b) train Kanwil-level education staff in monitoring and reporting on construction-
related activities; (c) keep PWD technical staff in each kabupaten informed about the Bank's
requirements with respect to procurement of construction; and (d) review the bidding procedures and



46                 Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
contract awards of about 110 contracts over the life of the project, and determine that it was
implemented in accordance with agreed the agreed rules and proceduresa/.
4.12   Procurement Methods. All procurement of goods and works would be done in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995
and revised in January 1996. The loan proceeds would be used to finance the procurement of goods,
works and services as follows:
4.13   School construction activities, totaling about US$25.0 million for contracts equal to or
exceeding US$50,000 each would be procured under NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each and totaling US$27.0 million would be
procured from domestic contractors under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
written invitations to at least three qualified contractors, or through a publicly extended invitation to
qualified domestic contractors. The head of the procurement section in the Kandep office of the
MOEC in each province would negotiate annually with the public works department (at the DTNAS-
level) to have the annually agreed works carried out within each year's budget period.
4.14   In many parts of Kalimantan, the least cost alternative to retain teachers and students is
through dormitory construction. In the interest of the sustainability of the project, accommodation
construction activities (totaling about US$5.9 million) would be carried out under the auspices of
community organizations (such as BP3). This refers specifically to the construction of project-
financed teacher and student residences in parts of Kalimantan. Communities that meet agreed
criteria for such construction (see Attachment to Annex 10) would be re-imbursed for the cost of
materials. All labor would be provided by the community.
4.15   Procurement of equipment, furniture and consumable materials for contracts equal to or
exceeding US$200,000 each, and totaling about US$10.0 million would be carried out through ICB,
using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Procurement of Goods. To the extent
practicable, contracts for these goods would be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
US$200,000 equivalent or more. This procurement would be-in accordance with methods, principles
and documents that have already been tested and carried out under the Second Secondary Education
and Management Project (Loan 31 58-IND). These principles include: (a) involving the end-users in
the preparation of the equipment lists for their schools; and (b) making the suppliers of the equipment
responsible for distributing the equipment to the end-users. Any further lessons learned from the
ongoing bid evaluation and forthcoming contract performance would be incorporated into future
bidding documents under the proposed project. Under ICB bidding, local manufacturers would be
granted a margin of preference of 15 percent of the CIF price, or the import taxes and duties which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay, whichever is lower. Contracts costing less than $200,000
up to an aggregate of US$4.0 million including taxes could be procured through NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Small and diverse items, costing less than US$50,000 and totaling US$5.1
million may be procured through national shopping based on at least three price quotations.
a/ This would include about 80 percent of contract awards under NCB procedures and about 10 percent spot-
checking of contracts awarded following simplified procurement procedures with three price quotations. About
one half of this review would be done through desk-reviews in Jakarta. Spot-checks and reviews of noted
irregularities would necessitate field reviews for the remaining 50 percent. RSI would carry out a second review
of about 20 percent of the work of the procurement consultant.



Staff Appraisal Report                           47
4.16   Because of their availability from  single sources only, books and earlier published
educational materials, totaling US$16.9 million, would, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured
from publishers or local distributors through direct contracting. Printing services for project-specific
educational materials costing less than US$50,000 each and aggregating less than US$2.5 million
would be procured through national shopping with at least three price quotations. There would be no
larger contracts for this purpose. Together these items are estimated to cost a total of US$19.4
million.
4.17   Local training contracts totaling about US$20.5 million would be awarded to local providers
in accordance with Government administrative procedures, acceptable to the Bank.
4.18   Overseas training contracts totaling about US$1.4 million would be awarded in accordance
with Government administrative procedures, acceptable to the Bank.
4.19   Consultant services and studies totaling about US$6.6 million would be selected and
contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines on the use of consultants. About US$3.6 million of
this would be for the provinces, the balance (US$3.0 million) for project management and
supervision from Jakarta. Annex 19 shows the technical assistance plan. All training and consultancy
contracts would use the standard form of contract for consultants' services.
4.20   Scholarships totaling about US$16.1 million would be awarded in accordance with agreed
criteria in accordance with Government administrative procedures, acceptable to the Bank.
4.21   Contract teachers totaling about US$4.7 million would be selected in accordance with
the criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank.
4.22 Operating costs totaling about US$4.9 million would be met following Government
administrative procedures, acceptable to the Bank.
4.23   Reviews. As shown in the following table and further detailed in Annex 20, there would
be a large number of small to medium size contracts for goods and works (<US$200,000) to be
awarded under the proposed project:



48                 Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Table 4.4: Project Contracts Shown by Category of Expenditure by Province
Central    Central    West                  Central
Java    Kalimantan  Kalimantan  Yogyakarta    Unit    Total
Civil Works
<US$50,000                 259         18         15         250                  542
US$50,000-200,000           77         53         70                             200
Equipmt/Furn/Consumables
<US$50,000                 137         20         20          20        20        217
LJS$50,000-200,000           8          1          1         10          5        25
Books/Educ. Materials
<US$50,000                  40         28         20          40                  128
US$50,000-200,000           50         20         20         40                  130
Total Number of Contracts   571        140         146        360        25      1,242
4.24   Because of the nature of the project, most of these contracts would be awarded two
administrative levels down from Jakarta. Reviews by the Bank would therefore be costly and
would be limited to the following:
(a)    Each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more,
125 randomly selected contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $200,000,
the first ten civil works contracts in each Fiscal Year in Central Java, and the first
five civil works contracts in each Fiscal Year in each of Yogyakarta, Central
Kalimantan and West Kalimantan would be subject to prior review. The prior
review would cover about 25 percent of all contract awards, including all
contracts awarded under ICB. Other contracts would be subject to random ex-
post review. Review arrangements for construction are also discussed as a part of
the organizational arrangements for construction (para 4.11).
(b)    All terms of reference, single-source selection of consulting firms and all consultant
contracts valued at or over $100,000 for firms and at or over $50,000 for individuals
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other consultant contracts would be
subject to random ex-post reviews.
(c)    Fellowships contracts would be subject to random ex-post reviews; and Annual
Implementation Plans and Budgets would be subject to annual reviews and
discussions between the Government and the Bank.
4.25   There would be no contract exceeding US$5 million under this project. For contracts not
subject to prior review, post review of such contracts would be carried out by RSI staff
supported by the procurement consultant in PCU (para 4.11). For new implementing agencies,
one out of five such contracts would be post-reviewed for the first year of implementation,
followed by one out of 20 such contracts in succeeding years. Annex 20 shows the procurement
plan for the project by province.



Staff_Appraisal Report                                            49
Table 4.5: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Procedures                   Total IncL
ICB       NCB      Other IV     NBF    Contingencies
Land Acquisition                                                           3.5          3.5
Civil Works                                        25.0         27.0                   52.0
(17.2)       (18.8)                 (36.0)
Community Works                                                  5.9                    5.9
(Building Materials)                                            (3.7)                  (3.7)
Equipment, Fum. & Consumables          10.0         4.0          5.1                   19.1
(8.5)       (3.0)        (3.5)                 (15.0)
Educational Materials                                            19.4                   19.4
(15.0)                 (15.0)
In-Country Training                                             20.5                   20.5
(10.2)                 (10.2)
Overseas Training                                                1.4                    1.4
(1.4)                  (1.4)
Consultants (Provinces)                                          3.3                    3.3
(3.3)                  (3.3)
Consultants (Jakarta)                                            3.3                    3.3
(2.6)                 (2.6)
Scholarships                                                    16.1                   16.1
(8.1)                  (8.1)
Contract Teachers                                                4.7                    4.7
(3.8)                  (3.8)
Cperational Costsbl                                              4.9                    4.9
(4.9)                  (4.9)
Totals                                 10.0        29.0         111.6      3.5         154.1
Total Bank Financing                   (8.5)      (20.2)       (75.3)      (0.0)      (104.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amnounts financed by the Bank.
NBF - Not Bank Financed.
a/ Includes national shopping, simplified procurement procedures for small works, materials for community works,
direct contracting selection of consultants following the Bank guidelines, selection of contract teachers in accordance
with criteria and procedures agreed within the Bank, training and workshops, scholarships and operational costs using
Government administration procedures acceptable to the Bank. See paras 4.13-4.22.
b/ Incl. expenditures for travel, per diem, honoraria & consumables.



50             Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
D. DISBURSEMENTS
4.26   The proposed loan of US$104.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of about
five and a half years (Annex 21). The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001,
and the loan would be closed six months later on June 30, 2002. The disbursement schedule is based
on the implementation schedule and disbursement profile for Indonesia. Disbursement estimates for
the first semester of FY97 are based on the proposed initial deposit into the Special Account.
Disbursements would be made as follows (US$ million):
(1) Civil Works                 US$35.2        70% of total expenditures
(2) Goods                       US$33.1        100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
65% of expenditures for other items
procured locally.
(3) Training:
(a) Local                    US$9.9         50% of total expenditures
(b) Overseas                 US$1.4         100% of total expenditures
(4) Operational Costsa'         US$4.9         100% of total expenditures
(5) Scholarships                US$8.0         50% of total expenditures
(6) Contract Teachers           US$3.7         80% of total expenditures
(7) Consultants' Services:
(a) Provinces                US$3.4        100% of total expenditures
(b) Other                    US$2.3        80% of total expenditures
Unallocated                     US$2.1
Total                           US$104.0
4.27   Disbursements from the loan account for the following contracts would be made against full
documentation: (a) goods contracts valued at or more than US$200,000; (b) civil works contracts
valued at or more than US$200,000; and (c) individual consultant services contracts valued at or
more than US$50,000 and consulting firms contracts valued at or more than US$100,000. All other
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures (SOE) for which the relevant
documentation would be retained by each managing provincial office and made available for review
by visiting reviewers from Dikmenum and the Bank. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account
in the amount of US$5.0 million equivalent would be established in Bank Indonesia. This Special
Account would be held in the name of the Director General of Budget, Ministry of Finance,
Includes expenditures for travel, per diem, honoraria & consumables.



Staff Appraisal Report                            51
following established procedures. The Special Account would be used for all payments authorized
by Provincial/Kabupaten offices of the Ministry of Finance. The Special Account would be used for
all eligible foreign and local expenditures. Replenishment of the Special Account would be made on a
monthly basis or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever occurs first.
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
4.28   Based on submissions in an agreed standard format from each province, the CPCU in
Dikmenum would prepare a consolidated financial report. The provincial financial statements and
financial reports for each fiscal year would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, including a separate audit opinion on SOE expenditures. Certified copies of the financial
report on each provincial sub-project for each Government fiscal year, together with the auditors'
statements would be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than six months after the
end of each Government fiscal year starting March 31, 1997. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that it would (i) maintain adequate project records and accounts; (ii) have them
audited each year; (iii) furnish to the Bank the audit report not later than six months after the end of
the fiscal year;and (iv) furnish to the Bank other requested information concerning records, accounts
and audits.
4.29   Dikmenum  has the primary responsibility to monitor all project activities and routine
monitoring would be done through annual reviews. However, because a large number of contracts
would be financed under SOE procedures, an independent, qualified firm with external technical
assistance would be hired to conduct technical audits of key project activities. The above audits
would cover activities in progress and post reviews of completed actions to examine whether
implementation of the various project components are technically appropriate and to recommend
corrective measures if necessary. The procurement oversight activities referred to in para 4.11 would
form an input into these technical audits. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
it would (i) maintain adequate records and accounts for all project expenditures made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, (ii) retain records concerning those expenditures for at least one year after
the Bank has received the final project audit report; (iii) allow the Bank to examine such records;
and (iv) ensure the annual audit contains a separate opinion on these records and accounts.



52                  Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1    The benefits of the proposed project derive from  meeting the high demand for junior
secondary education where it exists and stimulating demand where it may be constrained due to low
income and/or credit market failures. The expected outcomes of the investment are: (a) increased
numbers of higher quality junior secondary graduates; (b) more students at higher levels of education
as approximately 80 percent of junior secondary graduates proceed to the next level and another 30
percent continue to tertiary education; (c) poverty reduction and greater distribution gains in the
economy as a result of focused junior secondary education improvement for low income and rural
students; (d) externalities derived from girls' education such as lower fertility, increased prenatal care
utilization, their families' improved health and nutrition status and children's higher educational
attainment; (e) greater professional qualification of teaching and managerial staff; and (f) better
quality data on students' and schools' performance.
5.2    Outcomes (a) and (b) above are generated as a result of the increased access and enhanced
quality that the project investment will ensure. Table 5.1 below presents the stream of beneficiaries
as a result of access and quality interventions over the next ten years (see Annex 7, Section IV for
details).
Table 5.1: Number of Beneficiaries of Project Investments
(stream of beneficiaries over next 10 years)
Component    Central Java     Yogpakarra  Central Kalimantan    West Kalimantan   Total Project
Access            66,534          3,221            S5,870            10,194        85,819
Quality          426,801         110,081           45,536            95,327       677,745
Total            493,335         113,302           51,406           105,521       763,564
Impact on Poverty
5.3    The project will contribute to offsetting the geographical and financial obstacles barring
poorer children from junior secondary schools, thus reducing social inequality in education access.
Those not enrolled in junior secondary today are predominantly from the lowest four income deciles.
As described in Chapter 3, the project will reach these poor and near-poor through its poverty-
targeted sub-components. Scholarships will be awarded to poor (and capable) students. Schools will
be built in rural areas, with priority given to the poorest villages. Additional places in alternative
programs, which are free to parents, will benefit areas where direct and opportunity costs are highest.
In all, the project will contribute to offsetting the geographical and financial obstacles barring poorer
children from junior secondary schools, thus reducing social inequality in education access.



StaffAppraisal Report                               53
Impact on Women
5.4    The following components can be expected to improve female access to junior secondary
schools: (a) expansion of school places in rural areas, where female participation is lowest;
(b) significant expansion of the SMP Kecil in rural communities in the Kalimantan provinces;
(c) expansion of SMP Terbuka programs in Kalimantan and Central Java; (d) scholarships to low-
income students, with priority given to girls; and (e) quality improvements at private schools,
including Madrasahs which usually has a higher female enrollment.
5.5    Although these actions can be expected to continue closing the remaining gaps between male
and female participation, progress should be monitored throughout the life of the project.
Impact on the Environment
5.6    The project would have no direct environmental effects and is classified as a Category C
project. The proposed project would positively effect the environment indirectly through greater
emphasis on environmental concerns in teacher training, the content of library books, and the
development of science education that makes students more aware of their natural world.
B. RISKS
5.7    The main risks associated with the proposed project are:
(a)    Private sector participation in junior secondary may decline in absolute or relative
terms which would have significant budgetary implications for the public sector. If
the share of the private sector in junior secondary enrollment declines but remains at
its current absolute level of about 3 million students (which means a decline in
relative share from the current 40 percent to about 20 percent), the budgetary shortfall
in the next five years would be twice the shortfall if the private sector retains its 40
percent share (see Annex 7, Section 1I for details). Furthermore, if private enrollment
is phased out (except for enrollment in religious schools), the budgetary shortfall in
the next five years would be three times the level of shortfall if the private sector
continues its significant role. The risk of the decline in the private sector participation
is partly mitigated by the involvement of project advisory committees at all levels
which represent stakeholders interests. This risk would also be mitigated by the
involvement of project steering committees at the central and provincial levels, and
the participation of the MOEC Directorate for private education in these committees.
(b)    The quality improvement component of the project may prove to be more costly and
take longer than initially planned, thus postponing or reducing its expected benefits.
The risks from the labor market side lie in not rewarding higher quality graduates
with a sufficiently high wage premium to generate the estimated economic rate of
return of the quality component of the project: the base case estimate of the economic
rate of return assumes that higher quality graduates will reap a 15 percent additional



54                 Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
wage premium in the labor market. This generates a rate of return to quality ranging
from 16.5 for Yogyakarta to of 23 percent for West Kalimantan (see Annex 7, Section
IV). Sensitivity analysis indicates that a 10 percent (versus 15 percent) quality wage
premium will reduce the rate of return to 18 percent in West Kalimantan.
(c)   Implementation by PPIUs in the provincial and district offices operating in an
institutional environment still in transition to less centralized procedures. The issue
is to what extent local management can successfully implement these provincial
projects when budgets and all incentive systems, particularly in personnel
management, are under central control.
(d)    The lack of, or limited capacity at the provincial and district offices to manage all
aspects of the project implementation process without previous experience with Bank
requirements and procedures.
5.8    The proposed project would reduce the risks of
(a)    private decline by re-inforcing the mechanisms for school mapping in the project
provinces, so as to avoid construction of public schools in the catchment areas of
existing private schools, and by providing support to private schools (teacher training,
library books and teaching aids) to increase their role in the system and including the
private education representatives in the project advisory committees;
(b)    slower quality improvement by using training programs which have already a long,
positive track-record and supporting further improvement of these programs (such as
PKG for teacher training and the MOEC program for teacher-librarian training); and
by providing the PPIUs with detailed Terms of Reference;
(c)    ongoing deconcentration by confirming assurances from the Government that it is
committed towards the deconcentration of responsibilities, and that it will set up:
(a) PPIUs in each project province to manage the project at provincial level in
coordination with Kandeps (district offices); and (b) a Central Program Coordination
Unit designed to provide technical assistance and to monitor and assess project
implementation.
(d)   insufficient implementation experience by providing assistance (launch seminar and
training, distribution of project implementation handbooks, coordination by CPCU,
national and international consultants) to the provincial PPIUs; establishing criteria
for inter- and intra-provincial equitable distribution of poverty-targeted components;
and provision of regular feedback from World Bank supervision missions.
C.    SUSTAINABILITY
5.9    The fiscal impact of the project on the four provinces is estimated below (see Annex 7,
Section II for details). The estimates are based on the following assumptions: (a) the education budget
in each province will increase at the national historical growth rate of GDP (6 percent per annum in



Staff Appraisal Report                               55
real terms); and (b) the share of the junior secondary education budget out of the total provincial
education budget would also have to increase during the capital-intensive phase.
Central Java
5.10   Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for Central Java (including physical and
price contingencies, and taxes) would account for about 6 percent of the Central Java education
budget, on average, during the project period (1996/97-2001/02). Incremental recurrent expenditures,
which are negligible in the first year of the project, increase from US$0.2 million in 1997/98 to
US$2.3 million in the last year of the project, and stabilize at US$2.5 million after the project is
completed, representing less than 1.0 percent of the education budget. Thus the long-term recurrent
cost implications of the project are small and manageable.
Yogyakarta
5.11   Total project costs for Yogyakarta would account for about 6 percent of the Yogyakarta
education budget, on average, during the project period.  Incremental recurrent expenditures are
negligible because no investment in additional student places will take place in Yogyakarta (other
investments which have recurrent cost implications such as the Management Information System
(MIS) is a very small part of the total).
West Kalimantan
5.12  In West Kalimantan, total project costs would account for about 14 percent of the province's
education budget, on average, during the project period. Incremental recurrent expenditures, which
are negligible in the first year of the project increase from US$0.1 million in 1997/98 to US$0.9
million in the last year of the project, and stabilize at about US$1.0 million after the project is
completed, representing less than 2.0 percent of the education budget. Thus the long-term recurrent
cost implications of the project are manageable.
Central Kalimantan
5.13   Total project costs for Central Kalimantan would account for about 15 percent of the Central
Kalimantan education budget, on average, during the project period.  Incremental recurrent
expenditures, which are negligible in the first two years of the project increase from US$0.14 million
in 1998/99 to US$0.7 million in the last year of the project, and stabilize at about US$0.8 million after
the project is completed, representing less than 2.0 percent of the education budget. Thus the long-
term recurrent cost implications of the project are manageable.
5.14  Institutional sustainability of the project is likely be greatly enhanced because of the
involvement of beneficiaries in project preparation, and by the project design which builds on
successful strategies suited to the variety of contexts in the project provinces. For many interventions
in all provinces under the project, local procedures and programs are being followed and improved to
ensure that implementors are familiar with and committed to the project's design. For example,
inservice teacher training is based on a system that the central MOEC and the provinces have
experience in implementing and that has been carefully designed and tested through years of fine-



56                Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
tuning. Rather than introducing a new system unfamiliar to provinces and teachers, the project will
focus efforts on improving the existing system. Teacher training will be supported and
institutionalized beyond the life of the project under the auspices of the broad network of MGMP
teacher associations.



Staff Appraisal Report                            57
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1    During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a)   employ contract teachers, award scholarships, and select locations for the construction
of schools and dormitories in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank (para.
3.4);
(b)   establish by November 1, 1996 (i) a Provincial Project Advisory Committee and (ii) a
Provincial Project Implementation Unit in each of the project provinces (para. 3.47);
(c)   establish by November 1, 1996 (i) a Central Program Advisory Committee and (ii) a
Central Program Coordination Unit (para. 3.51);
(d)    not later than October I each year (beginning in 1997), furnish to the Bank for
comments a report on the implementation of the budget for the past and current fiscal
years, and the proposed budget for the following fiscal year (para. 3.52);
(e)   implement policies and procedures to enable adequate project monitoring and
evaluation in accordance with agreed indicators and (i) prepare a report by July 31
each year (beginning in 1997) on monitoring and evaluation activities during the
previous year and recommendations for the following year; (ii) prepare a midterm
report on or about July 31, 1999; and (iii) discuss these reports with the Bank by
October 31 of the same calendar year (para.3.60);
(f)   furnish to the Bank within six months after the project closing date a plan designed to
ensure the continued effectiveness of the project objectives (para. 3.61);
(g)   carry out annual technical audits of project implementation and provide them to the
Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.62).
(h)   maintain adequate project records and accounts; have them audited each year; furnish
to the Bank the audit report not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year;
and furnish to the Bank other requested information concerning records, accounts,
audits (para. 4.28); and
(i)    maintain adequate records and accounts for all project expenditures made on the basis
of statements of expenditure; retain records concerning those expenditures for at least
one year after the Bank has received the final project audit report; allow the Bank to
examine such records; and ensure the annual audit contains a separate opinion on
these records and accounts (para. 4.29).



58                Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.2   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$104.0 million to the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five
years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, for currency pool loans.



Annex 1: Page I of 1
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
BASIC DATA: EDUCATION IN INDONESIA
General (1993-94)
Population                                 187.2 million
Adult Literacy Rate
% of adults, 1990                         77.2
% of females, 1990                        68.0
GNP per capita (US$) (1994)                880.0
Central Government Expenditure on education
as % of GNP                                1.9
as % of total central Government expenditure    10.0
Junior     Senior
Education                                  Primary        Secondary  Secondary  Higher
Grades                                     1-6            7-9        10-12       13+
Enrollment ('000)                          29,700         7,121      4,192       1,900
Gross Enrollment Rate (%)                  110.8          53.8       33.9       10.5
Basic Data of Primary and Secondary Enrollments in Institutions (1993-94)
Private     %                Public     %         Total
Primary                    5,131,634      17            24,567,952    83     29,699,586
Junior Secondary           2,913,796     41             4,207,162     59      7,120,958
Senior Secondary           2,254,035      54            1,938,048     46      4,192,083
Source: Min. of Education



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior-Secondary Educatio Project
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
IN INDONESIA
Prasekolah           -endidikn Dam-                                                               Pendidikan Menengah                            Pendidikan Tinggi
Pre-school                                                                                                                                       Iligher  Mnega    Education
Basic Education                                  Secondary Education                                                                   o
1                         S      I       Program  Sarjana
I                                                                             I                                 I      Nonkependidikan (SA)
I                                                       ~~~~~I EII-JII1 1II E i
I  I  ,  I Programn ipoma              idikn (D3)
I                                                                              I Sekolah Menengah Umtum             Diploma Non-Teaching    gra
I                                      I                                                   (~~~jSMU)
I                                                                              I        General SSS                  P
I    Kepeddikan (SI) Diploma Teaching Progr
2 3   4
SLTP Umum          I           SMK I                I               lkan(D3)
I                                                           General JSS               3     MY    c   SS             Diploma Teaching Proram
i             ~~~~Sekilah DasarS                                                S3|   g
Program Diploma Kependidikan (D2)
_   _ _  2 _  3  _  4 _  S _  6  _ _ SLTPKejuan                                          2 Yr Diplorna Teacher Training Progran
I                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vocational JSS        SM   5 Th
I l       4 Yr Vocational SSS   I
Kindergarten    I
Madrasah Ibtidaiyan (Ml)               Madrasah Tsanawiyah                                      I       Program Sarjana Agama Islam
Islamic Primary School                       (MTs)                    Madrasah Aliyah (MA)   I        Islamic Graduate Program
Islamic JSS                    Islamic SSS
I                                                                                                               I  LJ3 In  n; IR
g~~~ I'HSS    HHHHHS



Annex 3: Page I of 1                                         61
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
PYRAMID OF EDUCATION - YEAR 1993/1994
Official School Age
Tkt/Grade                                            L                                                  22
HE 4thi Yr                           
HE 3th Yr                                                                                                21
HE 2nd Yr                                     j   j            =_                                        20
HE I st Yr                                                                                              19
SSS Grade III                              iii                                                             18
SSS Grade                                                                                                  17
11                                                   1
SSS Grade I                                                                                               16
JSS Grade III                                        |                               _                    15
JSS Grade II                                 ~                                                             13
JSS Grade 1                                                                                              13
PS GradeVl V                                                                                  -           12
PS Grade V                                                                                                  11
PS Grade                                                                                                  10
PS Grade-                                                                                                 9
PS Grade 11 __ _ _ H_ _ _                                                                               8
PS Grade I    |        _|_|_7
Kindergarten                                                                                             6
11IIII    111I11111111         1111111 I11I1I1III11111  11111  11111  111111
2500     2000    1500   1000   500    0       500     1000    1500     2000      2500
Ribuan / Thousands
Z   Student enrolment                                    School-age Population



*                      | PRIMARY EDUCATION
C ECODARY EDUCATION           <
CIT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CE
|TEACHlR A"D TECH"lCAa F                                     IN .......
111CLIU ...X T                                           11^E0ALNPCONI  
1C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| PAIVAT. .CHOOL.  F   ^                                                    I      ;N TAN^.  '
-    C
|JE T U.D..." T AIM..   A1                               |1  ? CEVAILUATION  EA O ?                                      U   
O4        U9
| VOCATIOSAL .HOOLINO  IL                 OAND DVELOPMENT          ___
| PUBLIC EDUCATION                                             CV   M         T..M
'CUT.>O     A!FAIA.                                       L |.|...P AN_  REETIN
CA                                                                                             *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II ..
C REAR C                                                          . E
..
IHTOIAPPA^!   IN I N 
X I BO"sl"CODORVA TION IIIIIII"AI"     
I  :R1                               1  1    1  1  1  1                .I.A.                        I  I  FINANC
TRADITIONAL RELISP1                                      INITERNATIONL PI                   |
jfo I a8'J :. xauuv                                            Z9



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Organizational Structure of Kanwil
Head of   |                                        Dikbud (MOEC Provincial Office)
Kanwil                                                          Type A
Div.                                           School
Administration                                   Supervisors
Div. of       Div. of                   Div. of Bsasic    Div. of Gen.  Div. of Out of    Div. of Art  Div. of
Personnel          ~~Ed. & Teacher    eon  E.       ShledMusium 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eodr Ed  Schooled 
Planning                                   Training                                                   Archeology
SectionSectionSectionSectionSectionSection                                              Section
Div. of       Div. of      Div. of Tea-     Div. of     Div. of G &       Div. of       Div. of
Finance      Equipment    cher Training   Vocational Ed   C for Youth      Sport        History
SectionSectionSectionSectionSectionScin                                   eto
Head of Kandeps
(districts)                                          Type A:
m i m i                    Aceh, Sumatera Utara, Sumatera Barat, Sumatera Selatan,
Heads of Kancams                   DKI Jakarta, DI Yogyakarta, Jawa Tengah, Jawa Timur,
(sub-districts)                  Kalimantan Selatan, Sulawesi Utara, Sulawesi Selatan



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Organizational Structure of Kanwil
Dikbud (MOEC Provincial Office)
Type B
Div.                                           School
Administration                                    Supervisors
Div. of       Div. of                           Basic    Div. of Gen.   Div. of Out of    Div. of Art
| Planning  | | Personel |              | Ed. & Teacher   Secondary Ed.   School ed
Planning  Personel             ~~~~~Training
Section   ISection                     Seto            eto             eto            eto
Div. of       Div. of                        Div. of     Div. of G &      Div. of        Div. of Museum,
Finance      Equipment                    Vocational Ed    C for Youth     Sport            Historoy &
Archeology
Head of Kandeps
(districts)                                    Type B:
1                     Riau, Jambi, Lampung, Bengkulu, Kalimantan Barat,
Heads of Kancams              Kalimantan  Tengah, Kalimantan  Timur, Sulawesi
(sub-districts)             Tengah, Sulawesi Tenggara, Bali, NTB, NTT, Maluku,
Irian Jaya, Timor Timur



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Head of
Kandep                      Organizational Structure of Kandep &
Kancam Dikbud
(MOEC District & Sub-district Office)
Sub-Div.
Administration
Sub-Div. of     Sub-Div. of      Sub-Div. of       Sub-Div. of             Section of      Section of Out   Section of G &       Section of
Planning        Personnel        Equipment          Finance              Basic Educ.      of School Ed.     C for Youth         Culture
Head of Kancams
(sub-districts)
Unit of
Adlministration
l  l   l                      School Supervisors
Unit of Data &      Unit of          Unit of
Statistics      Personnel        Equipment
Kinder           OS             G&C              Sport          Culture
J PS              du             Y_out



66                                Annex 7: Page ] of 17
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROGRAM AND
PROJECT
The economic analysis conducted for the Central Indonesia Secondary Education Project
consists of: (i) demand analysis and rationale for public investment in junior secondary; (ii) fiscal
analysis; (iii) analysis of alternatives; and (iv) cost-benefit analysis.
The economic analysis first aims to understand the determinants of demand for junior
secondary education in Indonesia particularly since there have been variations in the past decade and
there are significant disparities among socio-economic groups (Section I). This section establishes
that the main determinants of demand are household incomes, costs of schooling and distance to
school; the latter two are variables that Government can affect through this project. Therationale for
additional public investment in junior secondary is investigated subsequently (Section I), and it is
argued that on both efficiency and equity grounds, there are justifications for additional public
intervention in expanding junior secondary.
The cost implications of the Government's expansion program (Section II) are then
considered. A key element is the future role of the private sector in the provision of junior secondary
education. The conclusions reached are that a sizable budgetary effort will be required, but that the
policy is attainable if the economy continues to grow at its historical rate, additional funds are made
available to junior secondary including external borrowing and the private sector retains its current
large share.
The next question that arises is how best to provide junior secondary education. The
Government has at its reach both demand and supply policy instruments and within the latter several
alternative modes of junior secondary exist. These are analyzed in Section III.
Finally, the costs and benefits of the specific project design are laid out and an economic rate
of return is calculated (Section IV). The financial impact of the project on the provincial budgets and
prospects of sustainability is analyzed in Section II.
I. DEMAND ANALYSIS AND RATIONALE FOR PUBLIC INVESTMENT IN JUNIOR SECONDARY
Enrollment at the junior secondary level expanded rapidly between the late 1960's and
1980's, reaching 63 percent in gross terms in 1988 (47 percent NER).' For the next five years,
however, enrollment fell to 52 percent (41 percent NER) by 1993 (declining in absolute terms from
7.8 million to 7.1 million students). Recent data indicate a resurgence of demand in the lasttwo years
1 Statistik Persekolahan, Pusat Informatika, MOEC; Statistik Keagamaan, MORA.
Calendar year (i.e. 1988) in this note refers to school year (i.e. 1987/88) in the enrollment statistics.



Annex 7. Page 2 of 17                                    67
(GER and NER rose to 58 percent and 47 percent respectively by 1995) almost restoring the pre-
decline enrollment rates.
There remain significant differences in enrollments, however, among income groups and
urban-rural residents. In 1994, the net enrollment rate among the top quintile was 66 percent
compared to 25 percent for the lowest quintile.2 Significant differences also exist among urban and
rural enrollment rates: 62 percent of urban children aged 13-15 years old are in junior secondary,
compared to 33 percent of rural children. When decomposed by income and urban-rural levels,
enrollments are low for the poor and near-poor children in both rural and urban areas, and the middle
income rural children.3
High direct costs are one oQL the primary factors explaining the low junior secondary
enrollment rates among the poor and near-poor. Overall, the cost to families of educating a child in
junior secondary comes to an annual average of Rp210,000 (1994). This is more than two-and-a-half
times the cost of primary education (an average Rp8O,000).4 For households in the lowest quintile,
total expenditure per junior secondary student is equivalent to approximately 80 percent of per capita
household expenditure. Particularly significant are the up-front registration (entrance) fees that
parents must pay: in 1994, the average entrance fee for junior secondary was Rp47,500, which for
those in the two lower quintiles was five times more than the registration fee paid for primary
education.
Indirect (opportunity) costs of junior secondary education are significant in rural areas. and
this exacerbates the effect of high direct costs especially among the poor. Schools are in short supply
in rural areas which imposes high travel time and costs. The longer the travel time, the higher the
opportunity cost of schooling, and the more reluctant parents will be to send their children to school.
Though the difference between average travel time to primary school for urban versus rural residents
is insignificant, the national average travel time to junior secondary schools in rural areas is 50
percent higher than in urban areas.5 Earnings foregone while attending school can also be significant
among the poor.
Parents' decisions to send a child to junior secondary education depends on the
aforementioned costs and also on:
I)     income constraints and credit markets failure. The poor have not only low income but also
greater difficulty to borrow. Particularly in the area of human capital investments, the possibility of
borrowing is practically non-existent even among better off families. This implies that private
demand for junior secondary and, as a result, current enrollment, is lower than its social optimum.
2)     the benefits of junior secondary education. A  tangible benefit associated with junior
secondary education is the additional labor income that would accrue to the graduate compared to
2 Indonesia Family Life Survey: Overview and Descriptive Analysis of the Population, Health, and Education Data, RAND
(October 1995)
3 Ibid.
4 Ibid.
5 Ibid. Since travel times are reported by parents whose children are enrolled in school, they are likely to underestimate the
travel time families face when making a decision regarding whether or not to enroll their child. The survey reports average
travel time in rural areas of 30 minutes versus 19 for urban areas.



68
Annex 7. Page 3 of 17
someone who left school after completion of primary education. Under normal (steady-state)
conditions, the wage differentials between primary and junior secondary education should reflect the
socially optimum amounts of education in the labor force rendering corrective action by the
government unnecessary. However, Indonesia is in a state of rapid transition. Examining the behavior
of the labor market, a conclusion that emerges is that formal sector employment is growing relatively
slowly (compared to education output) and wage differentials have been compressed (due to fast
growth in enrollment among the better off).6 These patterns give the short-term but false "signal" to
poor families that junior secondary education has neither direct wage rewards nor significant
employment prospects outside agriculture or the informal sector. Indeed, in the period 1988 to 1991
even absolute enrollments in junior secondary education declined. This disequilibrium phenomena
works against long-term investments, such as those in human capital, and justify Government support
to stabilize short-run variations and to steadily increase junior secondary enrollments.
3)     how farsighted parents are. Parents are making decisions today in light of the fact that jobs in
the formal sector are expanding at a lower pace than education (hence the aforementioned wage
compression and also the higher rates of unemployment among the educated). However, as the
economy approaches the turning point (expected to take place within the decade) and as has
happened in other NICs, the transformation of the economy from an agrarian one to one that relies
heavily on the education and productivity of its workers would be fast. At that point, corrective
action in the form of training is typically expensive. For example, it is estimated that training requires
7
six times the costs of basic education in order to achieve the same effect on productivity and wages.
4)     the prospects of continuing to senior secondary. Since junior secondary education is the
stepping stone for proceeding to senior secondary (and tertiary) education, families can give
consideration to the costs and benefits of completing senior secondary education. Thecost of senior
secondary is more than double that of junior secondary (Rp460,000 per year) and may in turn deter
parents from investing in junior secondary. Also, as with the earnings of junior secondary graduates,
the wage premium of senior secondary education has declined significantly over time.
In short, enrollments in junior secondary education can increase if direct costs of education
are reduced (such as through scholarships, fee reductions, etc.) and if indirect costs are alleviated
(e.g. through more and better geographical distribution of schools). On the benefit side, though little
can usually be done with the respect to how the relative supply and demand of educated/less educated
workers operate in the labor market, there are policies that increase the value of education through
improving its quality. Quality also affects the decision of parents to enroll their children and a child's
progress through school. There are improvements to be made on the input aspects of quality, for
example, 30 percent of junior secondary students still do not have mathematics textbooks. But the
more important (and complex) area of improvement appears to be in the process of how inputs are
combined to educate students and the interactions between teachers and students. Evidence on this
for junior secondary in Indonesia is scant, but findings from research conducted in primary schools
indicates that the problem may lie in the teacher's inability to identify, diagnose and address student
6 See Training and the Labor Market in Indonesia: Policies for Productivity Gains and Employment Growth, World Bank
(1996) Chapter 1. The wage premium for urban junior secondary graduates relative to primary have declined over the past
decade (while still positive) from 80 percent to 30 percent for males and 166 percent to 60 percent for females. (Ibid.)
7 Training and the Labor Market in Indonesia: Policies for Productivity Gains and Employment Growth, World Bank (1996);
Box 2.1.



Annex 7. Page 4 of 17                                       69
8
progress in the classroom.  Another indicator of quality is the relative low  scores in reading
competency tests of Indonesian students by international standards.
Externalities.  Research from  other countries has pointed to the existence of positive
externalities such as reduced fertility and child mortality and improved nutritional status that
correlate with female secondary education.9 For Indonesia, survey results indicate that a mother's
education is an important determinant of prenatal care utilization: 25 percent of women with some
primary education do not use prenatal care compared to less than 10 percent of women with junior
secondary education.'0 Furthermore, analysis of nutritional status in Indonesia finds a strong effect of
maternal education on children's nutritional status: for women with between zero and five years of
education, an additional year of education has no impact on the child's nutritional status, while,
among women with six to twelve years of education (or more), an additional year of education
improves nutritional status significantly.' '
The four reasons given earlier on why private considerations may lead to a social
underinvestment in junior secondary and the externalities from women's education all point to the
need for greater public involvement. Though we do not quantify the extent of market failure
associated with these reasons (e.g., does credit market failure affect 10 or 10,000 poor children) some
additional insight may be gained by looking at social rates of return to education that have been
computed from 1986-1992. The estimates indicate that returns to junior secondary education are the
highest among other education subsectors (Table 1). Furthermore, while returns for all the subsectors
may have declined during this period, those for junior secondary saw the smallest reduction.
Table 1
Index of Social Rates of Return to Primary and Secondary Education
1986, 1992 (JS 1992=100)
Level of Education                   1986          1992
Primary                                   146            55
Junior Secondary                          127           100
Senior Secondary (Gen'l)                  145            64
Senior Secondary (Voc'l)                  136            46
Source: Calculated from McMahon and Boediono (1992); McMahon (1995)
In conclusion, there are both efficiency and equity grounds for public intervention in junior
secondary education. The appropriate public interventions include building school facilities in rural
areas, providing scholarships to poor students, and enhancing quality.
8 "Some Basic Number Skills in Twelve Primary Schools: An Exploratory Study", Tony Somerset (1995)
9 Subbarao and Raney (1993) examine the determinants of desired family size in 72 countries and find that after controlling
for level of economic development and other factors, female secondary education is highly significant. Secondary education for
females reduces fertility and mortality in several ways: (i) by enhancing the opportunity cost of a woman's time in economic
activities relative to child-bearing; (ii) by promoting child health which in turn affects desired family size; and (iii) by
promoting more effective contraceptive use and willingness to use modern contraceptive methods.
RAND IFLS (October 1995).
1 "Nutritional Status in Indonesia: Evidencefrom the 1993 Indonesian Family Life Survey", E. Frankenberg, W. Surisatini,
and D. Thomas; RAND (January 1996).



70                                    Annex 7: Page 5 of 17
II. FISCAL ANALYSIS
An analysis of the likely costs and implications for the public budget of achieving universal
enrollment in junior secondary education by the year 2010 is presented below. The fiscal impact of
this project is then estimated.
A. Fiscal Implications of the Junior Secondary Education Expansion Program
The overall education expenditure in Indonesia is currently reasonably balanced across
primary (46%), secondary (13% junior, 15% senior) and tertiary (13%) levels. However, it has been
subject to significant variations in the past and has not always been protected from budgetary cuts.
Indeed, public expenditure on education has declined over time as the graphs below demonstrate.'2
This is relevant in light of the Government's plans to achieve universal nine years of education,
which will require significant additional public resources to be spent on the junior secondary sub-
sector, as well as on primary education.13
INDONESIA                                      INDONESIA
Public Education Expenditure as Percent of      Public Education Expenditure a Percent of
GOP, 1984-96                         Total Govemrnent Expenditur, 1984-96
4.50                                               19.00
4.30                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~8.00
4.10
390                                               1700
3.70                                              15.00
3.50                                              1500
3.30                                              14X00
310                                              13.00
2.90                                              13200
2.70                                 +~1100
2.50  ;            en   cn   cn   cn               10.00
) 0n cn 0x 0) 0n a) 0n cn0cn _                  3icn ox c c c $ g g g $ _  n
Year                                             Year
Achieving universal junior secondary enrollment in 15 years is a formidable task as it
requires increasing enrollments by 1.8 times (from 7.5 million to 13.5 million). It is therefore
important to define the role of the public and private sectors. Currently, the ratio of public/private
enrollment is about 60/40. We evaluate the cost implications of three alternative public/private
scenarios, that is, universal junior secondary enrollment is achieved in year 2010 and:
1)     the public/private share stays at its current 60/40 ratio;
2)     private enrollment stays at its current 3.5 million/year; or
3)     private enrollment is phased out except for enrollment in religious schools which is assumed
to remain at its current level of 1 million students/year.
Under the 60/40 public/private scenario, enrollments in public schools are assumed to
increase annually by 240,000 students. Under the other two scenarios the annual increase will be
12 The last two years are preliminary estimates.
The exercise conducted here assumes that the graduation rate from primary school will increase from the current rate of
75% to 100%. This will require additional investments at the primary level to increase retention.



Annex 7. Page 6of 17                                71
400,000 and 533,000 students. In all scenarios it is assumed that the level of recurrent funding
remains at its present level of $110 per student/year which implies that there would be no quality
gains. Development costs (building new schools) are estimated to be around $900 per additional
student. To address credit market failures and enable expansion among the poor, it is assumed that 10
percent of additional students in excess of the current 7.5 million will receive a scholarship of
$90/year. Students enrolled in private schools are assumed to receive an average annual subsidy of
$40 per student to help raise the quality of private schools (Appendix Table B).
The results of the scenarios indicate that achieving universal basic education will have sizable
budgetary implications. Even if the current public/private ratio of 60/40 is preserved, this would
imply that public enrollment increases from 4.5 million to 8.1 million. What is required to finance
this expansion (which is desirable on both efficiency and equity grounds) is a combination of
significantly increased allocations to junior secondary education, a decline in the funding of other
education sub-sectors (such as senior secondary or tertiary education) unless there is an increase in
the overall education budget (if sectoral allocations are to be preserved, especially with respect to
primary education), and considerable funding from donors.
The estimates below indicate that under all scenarios a significant financing effort will be
required (Table 2). In addition, the difference in enrollments between the three scenarios point to a
substantial increase in total public costs if the private sector ceases to play the role it does today.
More specifically, the total additional public funds that would be required through year 2010 come to
about: $7.6 billion in the public/private scenario; $1 1.1 billion if the current level of private
enrollment is maintained; and $14.5 billion under the pure public scenario (if the private sector is
phased out except for religious schools).
Table 2
Additional Public Funds (Sm) Required to Achieve Universal JS Enrollment in 2010
Under Alternative Public/Private Scenarios
Scenario I         Scenario HI        Scenario III
Public/Private    Constant Private    Private declines
(60/40)           (at 3 mn)        (except religious
schools)
Total add'l expenditure
required for expansion               7,605              11,115              14,505
Per annum                             507                 741                 967
of which:
Development                          216                360                 480
Recurrent                            211                352                 469
Scholarships                          29                 29                  29
Subsidies to Private Sch.              51                   0                 -11
Memo:
Additional students p.a.          240,000             400,000             533,000
How can the expansion be financed? Let us assume that the education budget increases
annually by 6 percent, that is, as much as the historic growth rate of GDP. This will add nearly $7.5
billion to the junior secondary education budget. Compared to the additional public funds required



72                                Annex 7: Page 7 of 17
for the expansion, this implies a shortfall of $543,000, $4 million and $7.4 million under the three
scenarios (Table 3). The last two scenarios appear unattainable, but the (60/40) public/private
scenario also has a caveat: it is heavily front loaded. More precisely, additional funding comes to
$].2 billion in the first ten years though no additional resources will be required thereafter when the
system reaches relative maturity (after year 2005 the percentage increases in public enrollments will
be significantly less than 6 percent growth in the budget). The (60/40) public/private scenario though
affordable at face value, will require additional funding of an average $120 million during the first
ten years of expansion (and considerably more, as much as $150-$200 million in the first five years).
The budgetary shortfall (in $ million) is shown graphically in Figure 3.
Table 3
Budgetary Shortfall ($ mn) of Junior Secondary Expansion Under
Alternative Public/Private Scenarios
(assuming 6% p.a. growth of budget)
Shortfall ifexpansion is
Public/Private    Constant      Private declines
Year          (60/40)      Private (3 mn)      (except
religious)
1995                   0                0                0
1996                -201             -357             -490
1997                -192             -358             -505
1998                -180             -358             -518
1999                -165             -354             -527
2000                 -147            -347             -534
2001                 -126            -337             -537
2002                 -101            -324             -537
2003                 -73             -306             -533
2004                  -41            -285             -525
2005                * -4             -260             -514
2006                  37             -231             -497
2007                  82             -196             -476
2008                  132            -157             -451
2009                  188            -113             -420
2010                 249              -63             -383
Total 1996-2010           -543           -4047            -7447
Total 1996-2005          -1230           -3286            -5220
* After year 2005, the percentage increases in public enrollments will be
significantly less than 6 percent growth in the budget.
The three scenarios would require that the budgetary allocation to junior secondary education
increase from the current 13 percent of the education budget to approximately 16 percent, 19 percent
and 21 percent in the next few years (and in the case of the mainly public scenario it will have to
remain at more than 16 percent in the steady-state compared to the public/private scenario where the



Annex 7: Page 8 of 17                                      73
share stabilizes at 11 percent) (Table 4). These figures amount respectively to increases of 23 percent,
46 percent and 62 percent of the current allocation.
Figure 3:
Budgetary Shortfall for Expanalon of Junior Secondary undor Altemative Public/Pri
Scenarios (assuming 6% p.a. growth)
(1996-2010)
200lo
10019
0
191   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  22005          2009  2007  2009  2009
-100
.200    -- -
-300
-400
-500
400
Y"r
| Prive seclor share mrmains at 40%         PrFate seSor mnainmns coent level of emolneot (3 mn)
Prite sedor dedines to only relgio.s schoois (1 mn)
Table 4
Share of Junior Secondary Budget as Proportion of Total Education
Budget Under Alternative Public/Private Scenarios
(assuming 6% p.a. growth of budget)
Year    Public/Private    Constant Private    Private declines
(40/40)           (3 mn)        (except religious)
1995              13%               13%                 13%
1996              16%               19%                 21%
1997              16%               19%                 21%
1998              16%               18%                 21%
1999              15%               18%                 21%
2000              15%               18%                 20%
2001              15%               17%                 20%
2002              14%               17%                  19%
2003              14%               16%                  19%
2004              13%               16%                  19%
2005              13%               16%                  18%
2006              13%               15%                  18%
2007              12%               15%                  17%
2008              12%               14%                  17%
2009              11%               14%                  16%
2010              11%               13%                  16%
The cost estimates presented above incorporate estimates of scholarships for poor students
and subsidies paid to private schools. It is legitimate to plan for such public expenditure because
alleviating supply constraints (e.g., building schools in rural areas) will not alone remove demand



74                              4Annex 7: Page 9 of 17
constraints (that is, the opportunity cost of attending education). Assuming that the poorest 10
percent of the additional enrollment each year receives a scholarship of $90, the total cost of the
scheme over the 15 year period will come to an annual average of $29 million in all scenarios
(increasing from $3.6 million in 1996 to $54 million in 2010). In the public/private scenario,
scholarships will amount to 6 percent of the total public cost of expansion (ranging from 1.4 percent
in 1996 to 7 percent in 2010). On the other hand, the budgetary savings from phasing out private
schools and the subsidy they receive (assumed at $40/student) will be only $1.6 million/year. This
saving is small (I percent of the additional funds) and can prove counterproductive as it will take
place at the expense of the current co-financing of junior secondary education between Government
and families.
What do these estimates imply for the total public budget allocated to education relative to
GDP? Public expenditure on education is today approximately 2.7 percent of GDP. To fund the
expected expansion of junior secondary education this figure should increase to approximately 3.0
percent and 3.2 percent under the 60/40 public/private and pure public scenarios, respectively. These
figures assume that allocations to other sectors increase annually by 6 percent (GDP growth).
In conclusion, achieving universal enrollment in junior secondary is desirable on both equity
and efficiency grounds, but will require a sizable budgetary effort. The policy is attainable if the
economy continues to grow at its historical rate, additional funds are made available to junior
secondary including external borrowing, and the private sector retains its share.
B. Fiscal Impact of the Project
Utilizing the results of the above scenarios and assuming the 60/40 public/private case as the
"desirable" scenario, the fiscal impact of the project on the two provinces is estimated below. The
estimates are based on the following assumptions: (i) the education budget in each province will
increase at the national historical growth rate of GDP (6% per annum in real terms); and (ii) the share
of the junior secondary education budget out of the total provincial education budget would also
increase during the capital-intensive phase (as in the national scenario; see Table 4 above).
Central Java: Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for Central Java
(including physical and price contingencies, and taxes) estimated at US$68 million, would account
for about 6% of the Central Java education budget, on average, during the project period (1996/97-
2001/02). Incremental recurrent expenditures, which are negligible in the first year of the project
increase from US$0.2 million in 1997/98 to US$2.3 million in the last year of the project, and
stabilize at US$2.5 million after the project is completed, representing less than 1.0% of the
education budget. Thus the long-term recurrent cost implications of the project are small and
manageable.



Annex 7: Page 10 of 17                             75
Table 5
Fiscal Impact Of The Project On Central Java Education Budget
(assuming 6% p.a. real growth of budget)
Prior to             Project Implementation         After
Project 95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99  99/00   00/01    Project
($mn)      01/02
Central Java Ed. Budget       183.0       194   206   218   231   245   260    276
Total Project Cost                       0.65   11.0  15.0  20.9  13.2  7.3
Project Incremental
Recurrent Costs 1/                        0.0   0.2   0.7   1.3   2.0   2.3       2.5
Project Cost as share of
Education Budget (%)                      0.3   5.2   6.9   9.1   5.4   2.8
Project Incr. Rec. Costs as
share of Ed. Bud. (%)                     0.0   0.1   0.3   0.6   0.8   0.9       1.0
I/ Assuming unit recurrent cost of Rps. 215.000 (US$96) per student.
Yogyakarta: Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for Yogyakarta (including
physical and price contingencies, and taxes) estimated at US$30 million, would account for about 6%
of the Yogyakarta education budget, on average, during the project period (1996/97-2001/02).
Incremental recurrent expenditures, are negligible because no investment in additional student places
will take place in Yogyakarta (other investments which have recurrent cost implications such as the
MIS is a very small part of the total).
Table 6
Fiscal Impact Of The Project On Yogyakarta Education Budget
(assuming 6% p.a. real growth of budget)
Prior to           Project Implementation           After
Project 95/96  96/97  97/98   98/99  99/00   00/01    Project
($mn)     01/02
Yogyakarta Ed. Budget       82        87    92    98    104   110   116        123
Total Project Cost                   0.03   4.2   6.6   6.8   6.4   5.7
Project Incremental
Recurrent Costs I/                    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0
Project Cost as share of
Education Budget (%)                 0.03   4.6   6.7   6.5   5.8   4.9



76                               Annex 7: Page 11 of 17
West Kalimantan: Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for West Kalimantan
(including physical and price contingencies, and taxes) estimated at US$27 million, would account
for about 14% of the West Kalimantan education budget, on average, during the project period
(1996/97-2001/02). Incremental recurrent expenditures, which are negligible in the first year of the
project increase from US$0.1 million in 1997/98 to US$0.9 million in the last year of the project, and
stabilize at about US$1.0 million after the project is completed, representing less than 2.0% of the
education budget. Thus the long-term recurrent cost implications of the project are manageable.
Table 7
Fiscal Impact Of The Project On West Kalimantan Education Budget
(assuming 6% p.a. real growth of budget)
Prior to           Project Implementation         After
Project 95/96  96/97   97/98   98/99  99/00   00/01   Project
($mn)     01/02
West Kalimantan Ed.          33        35    37    39    42    44    47        50
Budget
Total Project Cost                     1.0   6.1   6.5   7.8   5.4   0.5
Project Incremental
Recurrent Costs 1/                     0.0   0.1   0.3   0.5   0.7   0.9    0.9
Project Cost as share of
Education Budget (%)                   2.9  16.5  16.7  18.6  12.3  1.6
Project Incr. Rec. Costs as
share of Ed. Bud. (%)                  0.0   0.2   0.7   1.2   1.7   1.9    1.9
1/ Assuming unit recurrent cost of Rps. 205,000 (US$91) per student.
Central Kalimantan: Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for Central
Kalimantan (including physical and price contingencies, and taxes) estimated at US$23 million,
would account for about 14.6% of the Central Kalimantan education budget, on average, during the
project period (1996/97-2001/02). Incremental recurrent expenditures, which are negligible in the
first two years of the project increase from US$0.14 million in 1998/99 to US$0.7 million in the last
year of the project, and stabilize at about US$0.8 million after the project is completed, representing
less than 2.0% of the education budget. Thus the long-term recurrent cost implications of the project
are manageable.



Annex 7: Page l2of 17                           77
Table 8
Fiscal Impact Of The Project On Central Kalimantan Education Budget
(assuming 6% p.a. real growth of budget)
Prior to           Project Implementation          After
Project 95/96  96/97   9 7/98   98/99  99/00   00/01    Project
($mn)     01/02
Central Kalimantan Ed.      27        28    30    32    34    36    38        40
Budget
Total Project Cost                    0.8   5.0   5.3   5.7   6.1   0.5
Project Incremental
Recurrent Costs 1/                    0.0   0.0   0.1   0.3   0.6   0.7       0.8
Project Cost as share of
Education Budget (%)                  2.8  16.7  16.6  16.8  16.9  1.3
Project Incr. Rec. Costs
as share of Ed. Bud. (%)              0.0   0.1   0.5   1.0   1.5   1.8       1.9
1/ Assuming unit recurrent cost of Rps. 226,000 (US$101) per student.
III. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
A. Alternative Modes of Junior Secondary Education
GOI has available to it various alternatives to the regular (9 classroom) SMP school. These
include: SMP Kecil (small schools of 3 classrooms), and SMP Terbuka (open/distance school. An
analysis of their unit costs and effectiveness is presented below. Two words of caution are in order,
however: (i) the alternative programs are not perfect substitutes for each other or even to the regular
SMP (see below); and (ii) the programs are in an early stage of development, particularly the SMP
Terbuka and are undergoing continuous revisions, hence their unit costs and outcomes are expected
to change over time. The analysis below, therefore, is preliminary and will be updated during the
course of the project.



78                                 Annex 7: Page 13 of 17
Following is a characterization of the main advantages and disadvantages of each program:
Program                  Advantages                           Disadvantages
*  Better learning environment.     *  Higher investment cost than for other
*  More time-on-task in school.        options.
*  Preferred by community because it  *  Often required students to walk long
represents regular schooling.       distances
*  Employs unprepared multi-subject
SMP Kecil                                            teachers.
*  Might require student or teacher
accommodations
*  Is not free-of-charge (parents have to pay
for uniforms, entrance fees, exam fees,
BP3, etc.)
*  Free of charge.                  *  Requires a regular SMP as a basis
*  More flexible time.                 (mother school).
*  At end of course, students take  *  Less time-on-task at school.
SMP Terbuka       EBTANAS exam.                    *  Students have to travel to mother school
*  Uses regular teachers.           *  Requires discipline of self-study.
* All curriculum subjects are taught.
* Tutorials are held near student's
home.
Following are estimates of unit costs of each alternative program:
Unit Cost             Unit Cost
Program                    (Rps. per student    (Rps. per student p.a.)
p. a.) (with            (without
books/modules)        books/modules)
SMP Kecil 1/                   467,000                133,000
SMP Terbuka                    360,000                100,000
I/ including amortization of building.
As mentioned above, the three alternatives are not perfect substitutes. SMP Terbuka needs a
9-classroom regular SMP school within reasonable distance to function as a mother school, providing
subject matter teachers. Thus the program cannot be introduced in very remote areas where regular
SMPs are not available. An SMP Kecil, always accepted despite some of the draw-backs in terms of
teachers' quality, requires a capital investment (and subsequent maintenance and amortization). In
addition, MOEC has to find regular teachers willing to stay in remote areas.
LearningAchievement It is difficult at present to compare learning achievement between the
two types of schooling. SMP Terbuka is a very recent program; NEM scores exist for only one year,
thus there is limited basis for analysis. So far, only one comparative study of learning achievements



Annex 7: Page 14 of 17                                 79
has been conducted.14 Students in the sample, subdivided into two groups according to whether they
had just entered the program (Group I) or they had attended the program for one year (Group II),
were administered the same test, which gave the following mean test results:
Program                        Group I           Group II
Regular SMP                       42.5              51.3
SMP Terbuka                       31.1              34.3
Students of SMP Terbuka scored the lowest grades. The study further calculates the "gain points
average" for each alternative, which shows that the highest gain was obtained by the regular SMP,
followed by SMP Terbuka.
The above mentioned study represents one case study and should not be considered as
conclusive. As the three alternative programs are further developed under the project (and other
projects such as the Non-formal Education Project), they will be monitored and outcomes measured
in order to produce more conclusive conclusions.
B. Public versus Private Provision of Junior Secondary Education
A second analysis of alternatives is that covered under Section II on the role of the private
sector. The earlier discussion highlighted the budgetary implications of the expansion program if the
role of the private sector declines. There are additional merits to preserving the private sector. First,
given the current and projected surplus of teachers, a robust private sector is an effective means for
helping to clear the market for teachers. Second, madrasah schools (religious schools which currently
enroll about 20% of junior secondary students) offer access to junior secondary in small, poor
communities and at a cost that is significantly lower than even MOEC-supervised private schools.
These schools also enroll a higher proportion of girls than boys, reflecting the preference pattern of
some families for non-conventional education. Third, maintaining the share of private schools at the
junior secondary level establishes the basis for sustaining the even larger share of private schools at
the senior secondary level (54% of enrollments in 1993/94).
IV. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
The economic rate of return for the project investment is estimated by province and
component (increasing access and enhancing quality, but excluding the management component).
The estimates are obtained by solving for the internal rate of return that equates a stream of benefits
and costs resulting from the investment over a thirty year horizon.
Table 9 presents the rates of return for the four project provinces by component. The returns
range from 15 percent to 18 percent for the provinces, and from 12 percent to 23 percent for the
components. In Central Java and Yogyakarta, there is little difference between the rate of return to
14 "Study of Cost-effectiveness, Relevant and Sustainable Models of Paket B Program Implementation", Directorate General
of Out-of-School Education, Youths and Sports, MOEC, 1995. The Paket B Program is similar to the SMP Terbuka and is
financed from other sources.



80                              Annex 7: Page 15 of 17
increasing access and enhancing quality signaling the profitability of both investments, albeit at a
lower rate for Yogyakarta. The return in Central Java are high for both components, consistent with
the rapid economic shifts and high levels of demand in Central Java.
By contrast, in both Central and West Kalimantan, the rates of return to enhancing quality (20
and 23 percent, respectively) are significantly higher than increasing access (12 and 14 percent,
respectively). The high dropout rates in the Kalimantans determine to a large extent the low return to
the access component (since as explained below, an assumption made was that dropouts do not
accrue an additional wage premiums).
While the rate of return for quality improvement in Yogyakarta appears low relative to the
other provinces, this can be expected given the more advanced (and costly) nature of the quality
interventions in Yogyakarta. Yogyakarta serves as the leader in Indonesia in experimentation and
piloting of new methods, as well as the link to the international community.
Table 9
Rates of Return to Project Investments by Component and Province
Component    Central Java   Yogyakarta  Central Kalimantan   West Kalimantan
Access              18.0        * 14.3            12.1                 13.8
Quality            17.7          16.5             20.3                22.9
Total              18.0          15.84            14.8                 17.2
* Provision of scholarships to poor and capable students. No additional building of school places will be carried out by project.
The remainder of the section explains how the estimates were made and provides an
indication of the sensitivity of the estimates to some of the underlying assumptions.
A. Benefits
Increasing Access.   The project investments are expected to lead to an increase in the
number of students enrolled in and graduating from junior secondary in any given year. Most junior
secondary graduates, however, do not stop at this level: nationally about 84 percent proceed to senior
secondary and another 30 percent proceed to tertiary. Thus, the stream of output resulting from the
project investments is modeled as a function of the following five levels of outflows:
1. Junior secondary graduates;
2. Junior secondary graduates who proceed to senior secondary and subsequently
drop out;
3. Junior secondary graduates who succeed in graduating from senior secondary;
4. Senior secondary graduates who proceed to university and subsequently drop out; and
5. University graduates.



Annex 7: Page 16of 17                                      81
The total number of the above outflow over a thirty year period amounts to approximately
864,000 beneficiaries (Table 10). 15 The benefits of each of the beneficiaries are estimated as the
difference in wages between one level of education and the next. No additional wage premiums are
assumed to accrue to dropouts (they earn the same wage as that of the education level they drop
from). Provincial data on wages, drop out rates (by grade), and transition rates are utilized in the
estimation of outflows and benefits.16
Table 10
Number of Beneficiaries of Project Investments (stream over 30 years)
_______________                   ~~~~(million)
Component          Central      Yogyakarta         Central            West        Total
Java                        Kalimantan        Kalimantan   Project
Access               0.61          0.04              0.08             0.13         0.86
Quality              3.30           1.02             0.43             0.84         5.59
Total                3.91          1.06              0.51             0.97         6.45
Enhancing Quality. Investments to enhance quality will extend to (a high proportion of)
existing students as well as the new students generated by the project. Over the thirty years of the
calculation, the total number of quality beneficiaries amount to approximately 5.59 million. We
assume that a 15 percent additional wage premium can be earned by higher quality graduates
(equivalent to about an extra $1.5-2.5 per month, depending upon provincial wages).
B. Coqst
Investment costs are divided into those related to increasing access and those which enhance
quality, for each of the four provinces. They are spread over six years, with very little investment in
the first year of the project, followed by several years of heavy capital outlays and tapering off in the
sixth year. A provincial average annual per student recurrent cost is imposed throughout the project
and subsequently for the remaining twenty-five years (amounting to about $100). Similarly, annual
recurrent costs for senior secondary and university education are added to total costs since a
significant portion of the benefits accrue as a result of junior secondary students proceeding up the
system. On the quality side, an increment of $8 is assumed to represent the recurrent cost of
additional quality improvements. No quality enhancements are factored for senior secondary and
tertiary.
These outflows assume that there will not be a capacity constraint at the senior secondary and higher education levels.
Give the rapid growth of the private sector at these levels in the past decade, this assumption is not unreasonable to make
(coupled with some additional public investment).
In cases where provincial wage rates are not reliable, national wages were used as an approximation.



82                              Annex 7: Page 17 of 17
C. Sensitivity to Assumptions
Simulations were run varying some of the underlying assumptions. Below are the results for
selected provinces.
Change                                  New rate of return (base case; Table 1)
Only a 10% increase in additional wage
premium for higher quality graduates:
West Kalimantan                         18% (23%)
JS/Primary wage differential increases by
20%:
Central Java                            18.6% (18%)
Central Kalimantan                      12.6% (12.1%)
SS/JS wage differential increases by 20%:
Central Java                            19.6% (18%)
Central Kalimantan                      13.5% (12.1%)
Increase in JS recurrent costs by 30%:
Yogyakarta                              12% (14%)
Incremental recurrent costs for quality
improvement increase from $8/student to
$1 0/student:
West Kalimantan                         20% (23%)
In all, the main variables to which the system appears to be most sensitive to are those
affecting quality. This is not surprising given the large numbers of beneficiaries which are impacted
by this investment.



Annex 8: Page I of 5                                    83
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
EDUCATION STATISTICS
Table 1
Junior Secondary School Enrollment in Project Provinces
Central Java
1990-91                 1991-92                 1992-93                  1993-94
Total Enromllent        974,099                1,017,443                1,035,528               1,095,777
Publc                 548,323                  596,391                 615,392                  654,062
Private               425,776                  421,052                  420,136                 441,715
% Private                    44                      41                       41                      40
Source: Regional Manpower Panning & Training
Yogyakarta
1990-91                 1991-92                 1992-93                 1l3-94
Total Enrollment        150,847                  151,108                 151,386                  155,785
Public                 88,154                   88,716                  90,175                   90,055
Private                62,693                   62,392                  61,211                   65,730
% Private                    42                      41                                  __40         42
Source: Regional Manpower Planning & Training
_West Kalimantan
1990-91                 1991-92                 1992-93                  1993-94
Total Enrollment        109,748                  105,705                 107,020                  112,909
Publc                  56,730                   56,225                  60,262                   63,064
Private                53,018                   49,480                  46,758                   49,845
% Private                    48                      47                       44                      44
Source: Regional Manpower Planning & Trainng
Central Kalimantan
1990-91                 1991-92                 1992-93                 1993-94
Total Enrollment         53,337                   51,579                  48,937                   54,602
Public                 32,882                   32,311                  34,096                   35,999
Private                20,455                   19,268                  14,841                   18,603
% Private                    38                      37                       30                      34
Source: Regional Manpower Planing & Training
Indonesia
1990-91                 1991-92                 1992-93                  1993-94
Total Enrollment       6,744,199               6,721,674                6,755,988               7,132,531
Public               3,819,218               3,914,559                3,964,670               4,215,156
Private              2,924,981               2,807,115                2,791,318               2,917,375
% Private                    43                      42                       41                      41
Source: Regional Maunpower Panning & Training



Annex 8: Page 2 of 5
84
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Table 2
Junior Secondary Education Enrollment Rates for each Project Province and Indonesia by Gender - Five year trend
Central Java
1989-90             1990-91              1991-92              1992-93               1993-94
Gender                 %                  %                    %                    %                     %
Male                  51.8               51.6                 53.4                 53.0                  55.2
Female                47.6               47.8                 48.3                 49.1                  52.3
Total                49.8                49.7                 50.9                 51.1                  53.8
Source: Regional Manpower Planning & Training
Yogyakarta
1989-90             1990-91              1991-92              1992-93               1993-94
Gender               %                    %                    %                    %                     %
Male                  80.9               80.1                 80.0                 81.3                  85.3
Female                77.6               78.1                 78.8                 79.9                  84.3
Total                 79.3               79.1                 79.4                 80.6                  84.8
Source: Regional Manpower Planning & Training
__West Kalimantan
1989-90             1990-91              1991-92              1992-93               1993-94
Gender       |_%                |         %          |_%                            %                     %
Male                  53.2               46.0                 45.5                 45.3                  44.5
Female                54.6               47.7                 41.2                 39.8                  43.2
Total                 53.9               46.8                 43.4                 42.6                  43.9
Source: Regional Manpower Planning & Training
Central Kalimantan
1989-90             1990-91              1991-92              1992-93              1993-94
Gender               %                    %                    %                    %                     %
Male                  58.7               52.4                 51.9                 47.1                  46.9
Female               57.4                54.5                 46.8                 42.2                  48.9
Total                 58.0               53.4                 49.4                 44.7                  47.9
Source: Regional Manpower Planning & Training
Indonesia
1989-90             1990-91              1991-92              1992-93              1993-94
Gender               %          |         %          |         %          |         %          |_%__
Male                  58.1               55.6                 53.9                 53.5                  55.4
Female                54.1               52.8                 51.4                 50.2                  52.3
Total                 56.1               54.2                 52.6                 51.9                  53.8
Source: Regional Manpower Planning & Training



Annex 8: Page 3 of 5                                     85
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Table 3
Gross Enrollment Rates Urban/Rural at SMNP level for each Project Province
Province                                 |
Central                               West              Central
Java %          Yogyakarta %      Kalimantan %       Kalinantan %        Indonesia %
Junior Secondary
Enrollment rate         55.2                87.0              44.5               65.0              60.1
Urban               76.5                %.3               95.5               98.1              98.1
Rural               45.8               75.6              31.6               55.8               55.8
Source: SUSENAS 1993 3/14/96
Table 4
Repeaters & Dropouts as a Percentage of SMEP Enrollment for each Project Province
1989-90            1990-91           1991-92            1992-93            1993-94
Province           Repeaters Dropouts Repeaters Dropouts Repeaters Dropouts Repeaters Dropouts Repeaters Dropouts
Central Java             1.0       4.7       0.9     2.7       0.8      3.4       0.7      2.8      0.5
Yogyakarta               1.1       3.0       1.2     2.6       1.1      3.1       0.7      2.3      0.4
West Kalimantan          1.5      18.8       1.3    12.5       1.4    10.0        1.3      9.9      0.8
Central Kalimantan       2.1      11.0       1.5    10.9       1.4    13.6        1.0      7.2      1.3
Indonesia                1.2       7.4       1.1     7.1       1.1      7.1       1.1      5.0      1.0
Source: Regional Manpower Planning & Training
Table 5
National Examination Scores at SMIP level for Each Project Province
Pancasila  Bahasa                    Natural   Social
Province  Ideology  Indonesia  English athematics Science   Science
Central
Java         6.15      6.41     4.73     3.34     4.32      5.41
Yogyakarta   6.94      7.01     5.25     5.07     5.42      6.03
West
Kalimantan   5.68     5.72      3.97     2.86     3.79     4.73
Central
Ksimntan   6.53      6.37     4.92     4.76     5.21      5.60
Source:Ministry of Education



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Table 6
Teacher Distribution by Province and Qualifications
Senior Secondary          One-year           Two-year            Three-year        Above
Province                 or Lower  %    Diploma (DI)  %   Diploma (DII)  %   Diploma (DIII)   %         DIII  %        Total
Central Java                6,648 11.8        20,184 35.8         10,061  17.9          5,263   9.3   14,169  25.2    56,325
Yogyakarta                  1,789 15.8         4,006 35.6          1,750 15.5            594   5.3   3,117  27.7    11,256
West Kalimantan             2,082 30.4         2,464 36.1          1,523 22.3            332   4.9      427   6.3      6,828
Central KaUmantan             640 20.8           981 31.9           857 27.9             416  13.5      182   5.9      3,076
Indonesia                  47,683 12.5       137,911 36.3         63,838  16.8         34,789   9.2  95,851  25.2   380,072
Source: Statstik Persekobhan 1993/94
49



Indonesia
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Table 7
Expenditures on General Junior Secondary Education (Rp per Pupil)
Items of Expenses         Central Java            Yogyakarta           West Kalimantan        Central Kalimantan         Indonesia
Registration/entry fee    8,786       6.3%        6,822       5.8%        9,268       8.2%        2,867       3.2%     8,404      5.7%
Tuition                  29,994      21.4%       21,007      18.0%       24,854      22.0%       15,778      17.9%    26,271      17.9%
Contributions             5,465       3.9%        4,524       3.9%        1,558       1.4%        4,344       4.9%     3,409      2.3%
Examination fees             82       0.1%          222       0.2%           37       0.0%           51       0.1%       127      0.1%
Other school fees         7,333       5.2%        8,787       7.5%        4,208       3.7%        4,749       5.4%     6,180      4.2%     S
Uniform expenses         19,072      13.6%       21,937      18.8%       18,474      16.4%       18,007      20.4%    19,870     13.5%     z
Textbook                  7,968       5.7%        6,126       5.2%        5,109       4.5%        2,969       3.4%     8,496      5.8%      |
Study materials           2,888       2.1%        3,163       2.7%        2,001       1.8%        2,322       2.6%    10,056      6.8%      o
Pocket money             31,034      22.2%       22,602      19.3%       28,663      25.4%       26,537      30.1%    36,597     24.9%      Y
Transport                10,503       7.5%        5,638       4.8%        4,687       4.2%          642       0.7%    17,836     12.1%
Miscellaneous               206       0.1%           97       0.1%          211       0.2%           84       0.1%       253      0.2%      o
Additional courses          920       0.7%          262       0.2%          121       0.1%          163       0.2%     1,413      1.0%       ,
Others                   15,644     11.2%        15,683     13.4%       13,678      12.1%        9,733      11.0%     8,185      5.6%
Total school expenses    139,895    100.0%      116,872     100.0%      112,867     100.0%       88,245     100.0%   147,098    100.0%
Source data: SUSENAS 1992 3/14/96
00



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Junior Secondary Education Strategy Matrix
00
00
Sectoral issues            GOI' s strategy and actions  Donors' initiatives        Bank's strategy             Project components
Low gross enrollment rates in  - Increase access through  - 9% of $4.03 billion total  - Current set of junior  - construction of schools and
JSE, particularly in rural and  construction of additional  assistance between 1979 &  secondary education projects  additional classrooms in rural
remote areas               schools and support to      1993 (28% provided by ADB,                              and remote areas
private schools            43 % by World Bank) went                                - social marketing
to general secondary
education (compared to 50%
to universities)
- OECF Junior Secondary
School Building Construction
Project (1995)
Low quality of JSE         - Increase and improve      - ADB Private Junior        - Second Secondary          - Teacher training
inputs, particularly the   Secondary Education Project  Education and Management   - School libraries, library
availability of books and  (1995)                      Project (1990)              and reference books, and
instructional material and the                         - Secondary School Teacher   teaching aids                    IC
qualification of teachers for                          Development Project (1996)   - Science and technology
both public and private                                - Book and Reading          education
schools                                                Development Project (1995)
Geographical distibution of   - "improvement in the system                         - Secondary School Teacher   - Construction of teacher
teachers                   of recruitment, appointment,                            Development Project (1996)   dormitories
and placement of education                                                         - Pilot initiative for contract
personnel, in particular                                                           teachers
through reliable data
collection and coordination
between offices" (Repelita
VI)
Teachers' comnmitnent to   - "prosperity of teachers
teaching                   should be improved, in
particular through planned
career development and
adequate rewards" (Repelita
VI)



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Sectoral issues            GOI' s strategy and actions  Donors' initiatives        Bank's strategy             Project components
Inadequate evaluation of   -Development of                                         - Second Secondary          - Development of
student tearning and       examinations and student                                Education and Management   Examinations and Student
performance                evaluation                                              Project (1990)              Assessment Systems
Low level of public spending   - Increase the share of                             Bank-GOI dialogue through
on education               education in the national                               CEM and other channels
budget
Exclusion of poor children  - Provide scholarships to  - ADB Private Junior                                    - Support for SMP Terbuka
from JSE                   gifted but poor students    Secondary Education Project                             - Scholarships for gifted but
- Build JSE schools in rural  (1995)                                               poor students
and remote villages
- Abolish JSE school fees
- Develop alternative schools
(SMP Terbuka, SMP Kecil,
Paket B)
Weak managerial capacity at  - Provide inputs for capacity   - TA supported by ADB  - Second Secondary         - Managerial and technical
lower levels of education's    building                                            Education and Management   training
administrative system                                                              Project                     - Improvement of
information management
systems
- Development of
management efficiency rating
(user satisfaction surveys)
Excessive centralization of    - Progressively deconcentrate                       - Second Secondary          - Implementation of project
the administrative system  administrative                                          Education and Management   at provincial level
responsibilities                                       Project (1990)
Community involvement in    - "Community groups should                             - Consultation of           - Inclusion of communities in
schools                    be encouraged to give greater                           stakeholders in project     user satisfaction surveys
contribution to the financing                          preparation
of education" (Repelita VI)



90                       Annex IO: Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
OPTIONS FOR INCREASING ACCESS
To increase access to junior secondary education, a variety of strategies will be
employed according to their appropriateness in each of the provinces, including activities to:
(a) increase the number of places in public schools in order to meet demand; (b) provide cost-
effective alternative solutions besides traditional schools in targeted areas; (c) support low-
income junior secondary students through scholarships; and (d) other strategies to increase
access including the provision of accommodation at existing schools for students who live
too far to travel.
Increasing Places in Public Schools. To increase the opportunities for junior
secondary education, building or expanding traditional junior secondary schools as well as
developing the small SMP, or SMP Kecil, are the first options. Each of these options will be
appropriate and cost-effective only in certain circumstances and will be introduced when
compatible with local conditions in each of the provinces, as determined by specific criteria
drawn up by each province.
Regular SMP and SMP Kecil. Standard building designs for regular SMPs call for 9,
18, or 27 classrooms. In densely populated areas, regular SMPs remain the obvious solution
to increase access. However, schools of standard size are too large to serve rural areas with
small, scattered populations, which nevertheless have sufficient cohort populations to justify
a new small school. To increase access in these areas, the Government plans to use the SMP
Kecil, which has fewer than nine classrooms. There would be fewer teachers than the usual
requirement (at least five subject teachers for this type of schools). The main advantage of the
SMP Kecil is that it would allow the services of traditional schools to be provided to
underserved areas with small numbers of potential students.
In some situations, SMP Kecils are an appropriate and cost-effective option for
expanding education. General criteria used by the provinces for the establishment of an SMP
Kecil include: (a) a number of local feeder schools would ensure a minimum of about 30
graduates per year; (b) except for those students provided with dormitories, the maximum
distance for students to reach the school should be 5 kilometers or, alternatively, a one-hour
trip; (c) the school should guarantee the availability of at least three teachers, with
qualifications among them to teach math, science, Bahasa Indonesia, social sciences, local
content, and English; (d) rural, remote and poor areas are given priority; (e) priority is given
to kabupaten and kecamatan with the lowest gross enrollment or transition rates; and
(f) schools should not be in areas served by an existing public or private school. Once the
decision is made, teachers would be offered added incentives to teach in isolated areas (e.g.,
accommodation where appropriate) and education authorities would provide a minimum set
of teaching aids. An attachment shows the criteria for school location.



Annex 10: Page 2 of 4                            91
Education for Difficult Areas. Some areas have an insufficient number of feeder
primary students within a reasonable distance, or a large number of young people who are not
able to attend school at normal times for work-related reasons. In other instances, youth do
not attend school because parents cannot afford to pay for school expenses. The expansion of
access by means of regular schools will not catch these potential students.  Flexible,
community-based schooling that requires no separate infrastructure development is often part
of the solution. At present the Government offers programs, parallel to regular secondary
education, such as the SMP Terbuka program (open secondary schooling). SMP Terbuka
programs do not charge fees to students. Criteria for applying these programs are similar to
the ones for the SMP Kecils in terms of walking distance. A minimal class size of about a
dozen students would suffice. These programs would target the rural population in distant
areas, where the establishment of a "small" school is not feasible, and would represent the
minimum educational service that education authorities needs to provide to these areas.
SMP Terbuka. The SMP Terbuka program, now in operation for only the second
year, is conceived as a major alternative for school-age children who fail to enter a regular
public school because of financial difficulties in entering a public or private school, low
grades in the end-of-level Ebtanas examinations, and/or lack of facilities in the area.
Students in Terbuka programs are free only at certain times of the day, often in the mornings
- most of them help their parents in farming, fishing, or home chores. In most cases,
students attend classes in a regular SMP in the afternoons once or twice a week (a total of
three to four hours), with teachers from the "mother" SMP school. Four or five other
afternoons in the week, students do their home assignment, using specially prepared modules,
in a learning post in the village under the supervision of a tutor.
Such alternative programs as SMP Terbuka meet a need in deprived areas: they do
not involve high costs for parents (practically only transportation), are flexible in the timing,
and do reach a certain percentage of out-of-school youngsters. The main weaknesses are (a)
the often low qualifications and competence of tutors; (b) the relatively high costs of
transportation, which adversely affect attendance in some cases; (c) the qualifications of
students attending these programs, many of whom are bound to be those with low
achievement in primary schools; (d) a shortage of student modules; and (e) reduced class
attendance and contact with qualified teachers compared to regular SMP. Some parents
recognize these weaknesses and reject SMP Terbuka because it is not a "regular" school.
To improve the quality and effectiveness of the program: (a) tutors would be given
intensive training (at present Terbuka tutors attend only a 5-day training course, which
appears inadequate); (b) village chiefs, parents, and community members would be sensitized
and mobilized to ensure that students do attend tutorial classes regularly; (c) transportation
costs in particularly difficult or remote areas would be subsidized by the Government; and
(d) consideration should be given to increasing the length of the program; (e) students will be
required to pass the Ebtanas final examination like other regular SMP students;
(f) Government is considering providing subsidies to students with good learning
achievements to compensate for direct and opportunity costs. The effectiveness of the
Terbuka program will be evaluated during the project.



92                         Annex 10: Page 3 of 4
Scholarship Program. Families in the lower income deciles bear large financial
burdens when their children attend junior secondary school, relative to the total monthly
family expenditures (between 40% and 80%). These costs include school registration fees,
tuition, parental contributions, expenses for unifroms, transport, books and other costs.
Furthermore, children from poor families attending school incur additional costs in the form
of foregone income they could earn within or outside the household. Simulations, based on
econometric modeling indicate that abolishing school fees would raise the transition rate
from primary schools to junior secondary by 12%; subsidizing all school-related direct costs
would raise the rate by 32%, primarily bringing into school those children, whose parents
value education, but cannot afford to pay.
GOI is currently operating a nationwide scholarship program covering some 27,000
junior secondary students. The scholarship consists of financial support amounting to
Rp 25,000 per month for nine months, an ample amount to cover all school-related costs. A
new fund distribution mechanism has recently been implemented, with funds being
distributed through the post office. The fund provides scholarships to children of low
economic background and satisfactory academic achievement and personality. Within these
criteria, preference is given to children from remote areas, orphans and girls. The fund is
operating well, and though very limited, is much appreciated.
It is proposed in the project, to expand the scholarship program to cover a much
larger target group, to make a greater impact in bringing poor children into SLTP. The
current program would be augmented, with adaptations as follows: (a) scholarships would be
provided to 12,200 students for Central Java, 1,700 for Yogyakarta, 1,160 for Central
Kalimantan, and 2,100 for West Kalimantan; (b) unit costs would be set at Rp 25,000 average
per student per year; and (c) a simple monitoring mechanism will be implemented to make
sure that funds reach the recipients intact and that selection criteria are followed. By project
mid-term review, the entire program will be evaluated for impact. An attachment to this
Annex contains details of the criteria for award and monitoring the program.
Other Strategies to Increase Access. In addition to these strategies to increase
access by expanding the number of places in junior secondary education, the Government has
proposed other measures including supporting community construction of student
dormitories to increase opportunities for dispersed populations in rural areas. In many such
areas, students have already built, on their own, temporary accommodation, often of poor
quality and often beyond the financial resources of parents. The project would support their
efforts. Dormitories would be located according to priority in areas with low enrollment
rates, where such accommodation is culturally acceptable.
The lack of teachers in such areas is also a problem, and quality expansion relies on
attracting and retaining adequately trained staff. Options include increasing the number of
teachers in underserved areas through redeployment and support for the construction of
teacher accommodation. In many rural areas, there is no accommodation provided and none
to be rented. In some cases, communities have built teacher "messes", or small flats,
especially for single teachers. Such efforts could be encouraged and supported through funds
for materials and technical assistance to needy communities that are willing and able to carry



Annex 10: Page 4 of 4                             93
out the construction. An attachment describes criteria for providing financial assistance for
student dormitories and teacher accommodation.
The Project would also pilot a scheme for hiring contract teachers in schools in the
rural areas (see attachment). Schools would be given contract positions for teachers, to
allow them to hire new teachers when a teacher leaves their position without authorization.
This would reduce turnover and absenteeism. Similarly, a teacher rotation scheme in West
Kalimantan which provides for teachers to take work in rural areas for given periods, would
be supported by the project.



94               Annex IO: Attachment 1: Page I of 5
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN CIVIL WORKS
1.    In the interest of the sustainability of the project, accommodation construction
activities would be carried out under the auspices of community organizations (such
as BP3). This refers specifically to the construction of project-financed teacher and
student residences in parts of Kalimantan.
2.    Communities that meet agreed criteria for such construction would be reimbursed for
the cost of materials (excluding taxes) out of the project account.
3.    All labor would be provided by the community.
Procedures for Providing Financing for Accommodation Construction
1.    Priority shall be given to those Kabupaten, and those Kecamatan within such
Kabupaten, with the lowest gross enrollment and transition rates from SD/MI to
SLTP/MTs.
2.    Teacher dormitories shall only be built in rural. remote and poor areas, where teachers
do not have access to suitable accommodation at a reasonable distance from school.
3.    The request for teacher and student dormnitory construction shall be submitted to the
Kakanwil through Kakandep, and such proposal shall include evidence of land
availability and assurance of affordability for dormitory maintenance.
4.    The request for teacher and student dormitories shall be culturally and socially
acceptable
5.    For student dormitories, the distance between the residence of the pupils and the school
poses a serious constraint with respect to transport and access. The proposed school
dormitory shall serve SD/MI graduates in the surrounding areas.
6.    Preference shall be given to students living far away from the school and of poor
background.



Annex 10: Attachment 1: Page 2 of 5                 95
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES OF SCHOOLS
AND TEACHER AND STUDENT DORMITORIES
A. School Location
1.    Priority for school construction will be given to locations in rural, remote and poor
areas.
II.    Priority will be given to those Kabupaten, and those Kecamatan within such Kabupaten,
with the lowest gross enrollment or transition rates from SD/MI (primary) to
SLTP/MTs (junior secondary).
III.   The proposal for the construction of a new school shall take into consideration existing
private SLTP/MTs schools in the catchment area.
IV.   The proposal for the construction of a project school shall be submitted to the Kanwil
through an official request by the Kakandep and such proposal shall include evidence
of land availability.
V.    The request by the Kakandep for each project school shall be accompanied by aschool
location map with the following descriptions:
A.    Kabupaten and Kecamatan boundaries (include scale)
B.    Rivers, bridges and main roads
C.    Kabupaten/Kecamatan centers, other towns and villages
D.    Existing SD/MI schools
E.    Existing public SLTP/MTs schools
F.    Existing private SLTP/MTs schools
G.    Proposed location of new public and private SLTP/MTs schools if known
H.    Proposed location of project SLTP schools for the first year of project
VI.   The request from the Kakandep shall be in line with the school construction plan of
each district, which will be reviewed and updated annually.



96                    Annex 10: Attachment 1: Page 3 of 5
B. Teacher and Student Dormitories
1. Priority shall be given to those Kabupaten, and those Kecamatan within such Kabupaten,
with the lowest gross enrollment and transition rates from SD/MI to SLTP/MTs.
2. Teacher dormitories shall only be built in rural, remote and poor areas, where teachers do
not have access to suitable accommodation at a reasonable distance from school.
3. The request for teacher and student dormitory construction shall be submitted to the
Kakanwil through Kakandep, and such proposal shall include evidence of land availability
and assurance of affordability for dormitory maintenance.
4. The request for teacher and student dormitories shall be culturally and socially acceptable
5. For student dormitories, the distance between the residence of the pupils and the school
poses a serious constraint with respect to transport and access. The proposed school
dormitory shall serve SD/MI graduates in the surrounding areas.
6. Preference shall be given to students living far away from the school and of poor
background.



Annex 10: Attachment 1: Page 4 of 5               97
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
CRITERIA FOR EMPLOYMENT OF CONTRACT TEACHERS
I.    The main purpose of the contract teacher program is to overcome the shortage of
teachers in rural and remote areas.
II.    The application for contract teacher should be submitted by the school principal to
the district head (Kakandep). The Kakandep with his/her recommendation will
forward the application to the selection committee at the Kanwil office.
III.   Preference will be given to candidates with at least a D3 qualification in related
teaching subject matters, to the existing "guru honor," and to those who reside nearby
the schools requesting contract teachers.
IV.   The contracts shall include the following conditions
A.    assignment for three years to a public or private school in rural or remote
areas;
B.    no claim for financial compensation upon the completion or termination of
the contract;
C.    no assurance to become a permanent teacher upon completion of the contract
V.    The duration of the contract will be three years and will be reviewed annually on the
basis of performance.
VI.   A contract teacher shall receive the same salary as a permanent teacher (PNS) with
the same education, qualification and experience, and shall be entitled to the same
fringe benefits which the school provides to its permanent teachers.



98                  Annex 10: Attachment 1: Page 5 of 5
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENTS
1. The candidate is in grade six of primary school or is a primary school graduate.
2. Priority will be given to Kecamatan or less developed areas with low gross enrollment
rates at junior secondary education or low primary-secondary transition rates.
3. Priority will be given to students from low economic background (refer to a letter of
reference from head of the village where the student lives), to orphans and to females.
4. Preference will be given to students with good academic achievement scores validated by
the school principal.
5. The student is not receiving any other scholarship.
6. Scholarships will be awarded annually, and can be extended upon satisfactory of the
recipient.



Annex II: Page I of 6                      99
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
INSERVICE TEACHER TRAINING STRATEGY
Introduction
The PKG Program. The Directorate of General Secondary Education (Dikmenum)
began programs to strengthen the quality of secondary education more than 20 years ago, but
the main initiative has been the Pemantapan Kerja Guru (PKG) program, which started
working with science teachers in 1980. The program was extended to cover teachers of four
other major subjects (mathematics, English, Bahasa Indonesia and geography) during the
1980s. For its first five years, PKG was supported by a UNDP/UNESCO grant, but since
1984 activities have been funded through two joint Government of Indonesia/World Bank
projects (the First and Second Secondary Education and Management Projects).
Two major characteristics defined PKG training:
*  Inservice instruction at the training center was supported by follow-up visits to
participants' schools (onservice training);
*   Teacher educators from the Teacher Training Institutions (IKIPS and FKIPs)
made a substantial contribution to subject-content learning; but responsibility for
the practical aspects of the training program, including the onservice visits, was
in the hands of experienced teachers (instructors).
Before starting PKG work, new instructors received specially-designed short courses
in Malaysia, Singapore, the United Kingdom, or Australia. Subsequently, selected instructors
undertook more extended courses overseas; and more than 80 of them now hold masters'
degrees in pedagogy of their teaching subject.
Originally, all PKG training was delivered through a single model, sometimes
referred to as PKG (murni) pure. A PKG murni training cycle ran for 16 weeks, during
which participants (i) received two two-week blocks of inservice training, at a provincial
center; (ii) took part in approximately 12 weekly meetings; and (iii) received three onservice
visits at their schools. The main focus during the inservice blocks was on subject content,
during the weekly meetings, on lesson planning and feedback; and during the onservice
visits, on practical application in the classroom.
Sanggar PKG. During the mid-1980s, a second less-intensive model was introduced
to disseminate PKG approaches more rapidly, and to reduce costs. The combination of
inservicing and onservicing was maintained, but the residential block courses were dropped,
and the program for the weekly meetings restructured to include subject content as well as
lesson planning and follow-up. Sanggar PKG training was carried out by guru inti (key
teachers). Originally the guru inti were simply teachers who had performed well in PKG



100                         Annex 11. Page 2 of 6
murni training, but starting in 1990, a special training program was set up for them (Latihan
Kerja Guru Inti: LKGI). In the long-established subjects (science, mathematics, English)
LKGI training replaced the original PKG mumi program, which was discontinued at this
time. The instructors thus became trainers of trainers rather than trainers of teachers.
MGMP Training. In 1993 Sanggar PKG was in turn replaced by a new program,
Musyawara Guru Mata Pelajaran (MGMP), which continues to the present. Training content
remains much the same, but intensity is further reduced. Teachers' meetings take place on
average once every three weeks, and onservice visits have been dropped altogether. The two-
week training programs for guru inti (LKGI) have been curtailed to two days only.
PKG Model C Training. The kabupaten-based Sanggar PKG program, and the
successor MGMP program, extended training activities to teachers in the more-accessible
rural schools, but were not able to reach teachers in the most isolated schools. PKG Model C
was initiated in 1993 to meet the needs of these teachers. The program is run at the
provincial level, by instructors rather than guru inti. Participants attend two block inservice
courses of two weeks each, and receive a single onservice visit. There are no weekly
meetings.
Evaluation Studies
The 1984 UNDPIUNESCO PKG Science Evaluation. This was a full-scale
evaluation of a PKG program, involving classroom observation and pupil assessment. based
on observations of lessons taught by more than 500 teachers, and the assessment of the
performance of a similar number of student groups in science experiments, the evaluators
concluded that PKG science had produced an impressive impact, both on the teaching
behavior of teachers and on the learning behavior of pupils. PKG-trained teachers asked
more questions - particularly high intellectual demand questions - and a higher proportion of
their questions were answered by the pupils. In the science experiments, pupil groups whose
teachers had had a high level of exposure to PKG scored, in some cases, more than two
standard deviations better than groups whose teachers had had no PKG exposure.
The review carried out for project preparation was done over a limited time period:
one week in Jakarta, followed by two weeks fieldwork in the provinces using the flexible
method of rapid policy appraisal.
The review covered three provinces, selected from among those to be included in the
proposed Secondary Education Projects: D.I. Aceh, Jawa Timur, and Kalimantan Barat. In
each province, three schools were visited: first, a school in or near the kabupaten capital,
selected by the PKG team as a model of good practice; second, a school in a moderately
accessible rural area; and third, a school in a remote area, if possible, one participating in the
Model C program.



Annex 11: Page 3 of 6                        101
Findings
The results of the review can be summarized in three main findings:
(a)    The programs have succeeded in developing an extensive group of secondary
school teachers into teacher trainers, widely distributed throughout the
Republic at both the provincial and the kabupaten level (instructors and guru
inti, respectively). The quality of these trainers is variable, but the best of
them are highly impressive. They constitute an invaluable human resource
which should be fully utilized in future quality-improvement activities.
(b)    There was excellent teaching in a few schools, mainly located in or near
major city centers where exposure to PKG has been greatest. Elsewhere,
however, evidence of improved pedagogy in the classroom was not evident.
In most of the lessons, teachers focused on delivering subject content without
paying sufficient attention to what pupils were learning. Teachers asked few
questions, so that communication in the classroom was essentially one-way.
At the time of the 1984 UNESCO/UNDP evaluation, which reported so positively on
PKG's impact on teaching and learning, the program was still in its pilot phase. In the years
since then, PKG has faced all the difficulties which have beset the implementors of
innovative educational projects everywhere in the world, when they have attempted to move
from the pilot phase to a national program. The problems were of at least three major kinds:
(a)    Delivery problems. During the pilot phase of PKG, while the project was
limited in scope, the core group of trainers (the instructors) were able to work
directly with the end-users (the teachers). But as coverage widened, it was
necessary to introduce intermediate trainers (the guru inti), who transmitted
the messages from the core group to the end users. These intermediate
trainers were, inevitably, not as well prepared as the core group.  In
consequence, the flow of new ideas tended to become restricted - even, in
some cases, to dry up altogether.
(b)    Management problems. As a pilot project, PKG was run effectively by a
small team of innovators on the basis of enthusiasm, charisma, and personal
contacts. But as activities expanded, the lack of formal linkages to the routine
management system became a constraint on success.
(c)    Financial problems. On a per capita basis, the pilot program was generously
funded, but as the number of participants multiplied, financing became more
of a constraint.
Three other problems, not connected with the expanding scope of the program, have
also tended to restrict the effectiveness of PKG:
(a)    Course content. From a limited observation of MGMP and Model C training
courses, it seems that while a great deal of effort is put into activities which
strengthen the teacher, relatively little attention is paid to student learning.



102                   Annex I l--Page 4 of 6
Teachers analyze the curriculum, prepare lesson plans, and practice peer
teaching. But they do not routinely analyze samples of pupils' work, to
decide whether the approaches they had used had led to effective learning, or
to determine which concepts and skills the pupils found most difficult. The
construction of class tests does receive attention, but most of the tests are
mainly in multiple-choice format, and hence not suited for diagnostic and
remedial purposes.
(b)   Lack of follow-up. At the end of the training cycle, participants have no
further contact with the training team, unless they enter a subsequent cycle.
In consequence, incentives to maintain new teaching approaches are weak.
(c)    Examination backwash. Between 80% and 90% of questions in the Ebtanas
and other external examinations are in multiple-choice form.  A high
proportion of these questions test straightforward recall or (in mathematics
and science) routine calculation, only a small proportion test application,
problem solving and other higher-level skills. Such material is much easier
and quicker to teach using didactic rather than student-active methods. So the
examinations send powerful signals to the teacher as to the pedagogical
approaches she should adopt. Clearly, reform of the content of the Ebtanas
and other external examinations should be a high priority.
Policy Proposals
Program Content. The content of all inservicing activities would be revitalized; in
particular, future programs would pay much more attention to promoting student learning
than they do at present.  Emphasis would be given to the development of effective
questioning techniques, so that teachers become skilled in identifying students' learning
difficulties. They would learn to construct open-ended formative tests for use in the
classroom, and to use the results to improve learning.
Preparing the first draft of this new training program would be the responsibility of
the Development Team for the relevant subject. They would work in collaboration with
national consultants and international consultants.
The Development Teams and the consultants would also be responsible for devising
suitable tests for monitoring pupils' learning during the course of the project. The majority
of the test questions should test higher-order skills rather than simple recall, and should be in
open-ended format. Models from best current international practice would be used as a guide
in devising these tests.
National consultants would be drawn from Teacher Education Institutions (IKIPs and
FKIPs) and other appropriate institutions. They would have had recent and relevant
experience in the schools, involving the application of effective subject-specific pedagogical
methods.  International consultants would likewise be specialists in subject-specific
pedagogy, with recent and relevant school-based expedience. They would have a working
knowledge of Bahasa Indonesia.



Annex 1I: Page 5 of 6                         103
During the first year, consultants and instructors would monitor the implementation
of the new programs. At the end of the year, the programs would be evaluated, and revised in
the light of implementation experience.
Program Delivery
It is proposed that in future, training would be delivered through two modes:
(a)    cluster-level programs for the more accessible schools; and
(b)    provincial-level programs for the isolated schools complemented by inter
school principals in the programs as trainers.
In both programs, a regular schedule of school visits would replace onservice training. The
purpose of these visits would be to provide professional guidance to teachers, but also to
monitor their performance. All teachers - not just those currently involved in inservice
activities - would be observed.
Cluster-level Programs for More Accessible Schools
In the more accessible areas, teacher development programs should be essentially
independent (mandiri) and self-financing (swadana) but would be eligible for Project and
support.
Management. The program will be managed by Ka Kandep or his representative,
working with a group of Kepalah Sekolah representing the participating schools. The
management team will divide the kabupaten into clusters of appropriate size, and be
responsible for finances, the maintenance of records, and arranging the trainers' work
schedules.
Meelings.  Cluster-level teachers' meetings will be held on a regular basis,
approximately 15 times per year. A cluster level management team consisting of the head
teachers of the participating schools will set the timetable, guru inti will be responsible for
arranging and running the program.
School visits. Guru inti will carry out systematic visits to all junior secondary
schools on a regular basis. During the visit, the guru inti will observe a lesson taught by
every teacher in his specialist subject, provide feedback, and write a report highlighting
achievements as well as identifying areas where there is need for improvement. A permanent
file of reports will be maintained.
Visits from the provincial team.  Subject specialist pengawas (supervisors) and
instructors will visit the kabupaten on a regular basis to guide and monitor the guru inti's
work. They will review the guru inti' school reports and visit cluster meetings.
Incentives for improvement will be introduced including the display of outstanding
students' work at the cluster center, the presentation of model lessons by outstanding teachers
at special cluster meetings, and opportunities for upgrading and promotion for guru inti.



104                          Annex 11: Page 6 of 6
Provincial-level Programs for the Isolated Schools
Changes proposed for these programs are less radical than those proposed for the
more accessible schools, as the activities have been in progress for only a short period of
time, and the majority of teachers have not yet had the opportunity to participate. Several
innovations, however, are proposed.
Duration. The training program for each batch of teachers should run for one year.
There would be three inservice blocks instead of two, to ensure that subject content for the
full teaching year is covered.
School visits. Three visits should be made to participating schools each year where
this is feasible and cost effective. Instructors would visit schools in teams of two, one to
observe lessons in mathematics and science, the other, lessons in Bahasa Indonesia, English,
and geography. Instructors should observe lessons by all teachers in the school, rather than
just those currently engaged in the training program for schools in more difficult areas. Head
teachers of the schools would be given training as part of the in-service training network to
provide systematic pedagogical support to teachers in their schools.



Annex 12: Page I of 6                      105
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
PRIVATE JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION
1.    Description of the Private Sector at Junior Secondary Level
The private sector has a large participation in the provision of edication services at the
junior secondary level. In 1994/95, the latest academic year for which statistical information is
available, enrollments in public and private schools in the four project provinces were as follows:
Table 1: Public and Private School Enrollment by Province
Total Enrollments Publac Schools   Private Schools  Private/Total(%
Central Java         1,259,716       731,480         528,236                41.9
Yogyakarta             159,401        92,262          67,137                42.1
W.Kalimantan           121,711        70,301          51,410                42.2
C.Kalimantan            59,238        41,105          18,133                30.6
Total Indonesia      7,812,536      4,602,137      3,210,399                41.1
Source All statistics fiom Dikmenum, MOEC
The important part played by the private sector in the supply of junior secondary education
services is not a recent phenomenon. Over the past 10 years, private school enrollments have
consistently been above 40% of the total for all of Indonesia, although there has been a gradual
reduction from about 46% in 1985/86. More specifically, the share of private school enrollments
declined until 1992/93 during a period of reductions in total enrollments from the previous peak of
7.4 million in 1988/89. But it has been kept constant at about 41 percent during the resurgence of
junior secondary school enrollments in the last two years.
With the exception of schools (Madrasahs, MTs) managed by local Islamic groups, whose
establishment is approved, and operation is supervised, by the Ministry of Religious Affairs
(MORA), private school establishment and operation is approved and supervised by the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC). In 1994-95 there were 18,221 private schools in Indonesia, 10,674
of which were under the supervision of MOEC (SLTPs) and 7,547 Madrasahs (MTs). The number
of schools and of students in the project Provinces were as follows:



106
Annex 12: Page 2 of 6
Table 2: Number and Enrollment of Private Schools by SLTP/MTs and Province
SLTP                            Madrasahs
Students    %  Schools      %    Students     %    Schools      %
Central Java       333,575   15.7   1,392   13.0   194,661    18.0        953   12.6
Yogyakarta          62.591    2.9     280    2.6       4,546    0.4        54    0.7
W.Kalimantan        40,139    1.9    309    2.9       11,271    1.0       126    1.7
C. Kalimantan       11,211    0.5     105    1.0    6,9222      0.7        76    1.0
Total 4 Provinces    447,516   21.0   2,086   19.5   217,400    20.1    1,209   16.0
Total Indonesia    2,129,964  100.0  10,674  100.0  1,080,435   100.0   7,547  100.0
School Establishment and Accreditation Many private schools are established and operated
by local communities which have not succeeded in their efforts to have a public school established,
or by associations of teachers. In addition, a large number of private secondary schools in Indonesia
are established by various organizations, often of a religious character, which wish to influence
public opinion and social behavior in local communities. In addition to religious organizations,
such as the Mohammadiya and the Catholic Church, several large commercial enterprises, mostly in
the business of extracting and processing natural resources, also belong in this group. It should be
noted, however, that in the large majority of cases where schools are operated by organizations
aiming at influencing local communities, the specific location of the school is determined by
whether a public school already exists and, if so, whether such a school has the capacity to meet
existing local demand for education. It is rare to find cases of private schools in direct competition
with public schools.
An organization of the type described above, starts the process of establishing a new private
school by seeking a favorable ruling on the part of the MOEC and local Government officials at the
Sub-District level. The ruling is generally favorable if these officials perceive that there is a large
enough number of primary school graduates in the proposed catchment area with no access to a
public school to satisfy operation of a new school. Once their approval is secured, the sponsoring
group, through a non-profit association (yayasan) formed for this specific purpose, submits an
application to the District office of MOEC which eventually must be approved by the head of the
MOEC office at Province level (Kakanwil). Normally it takes about 9 months for the whole process
to be completed.
Schools are supervised and accredited by the MOEC Directorate of Private Schools, through
local MOEC officials at the Province and District levels. Accreditation classifies schools in one of
four categories: Listed (lowest), registered, recognized, and equivalent (highest).  A newly
established school is classified as listed, and a review for potential upgrading of its status takes place
three years later, when the school has produced its first graduates. There are 8 quality criteria
applied during review (such as student performance in national exams, number of graduates, and
adequacy of school facilities). Depending on the



Annex 12: Page 3 of 6                         107
results, the school may retain the "listed" status or be promoted to a higher category. In principle
(and also in a few actual cases), a school may be promoted immediately after the first review to the
highest "equivalent" category. But normally there is a more gradual progression following
successive reviews. The distribution by accreditation category and Province is given in Table 3.
Table 3: Private Schools by Accreditation Level and Province
Equivalent  %   Recognized  %   Registered  %   Listed   %    Total
Central Java         210   15         921   66        186  13      75    5      1392
Yogyakarta            58  21          199  71          23    8      0    0       280
W.Kalimantan          11    4          48   16        186  60      66  21        309
C. Kalimantan         12   1 1         27  26          53  51      13  12        105
Indonesia            987    9        5969   56       2725   26    993    9    10674
Although the Directorate of Private Schools of MOEC does not collect information on the
association between school ownership and accreditation ranking, partial information from a small
number of Provinces included in the proposed projects indicates the following: "Equivalent"
schools are in general owned and operated by religious organizations and large enterprises
exploiting natural resources, while a few of them are operated by teachers' associations.
"Recognized" schools are in general owned and operated by teachers' associations and other non-
profit organizations (yayasans) while a few of them are owned by religious organizations.
"Registered" schools are generally owned and operated by teachers' associations and other non-
profit organizations, while a large number also belong to small town and village communities.
Finally, "listed" schools are in general owned and operated by small rural communities that do not
have a public school in the community itself or at a nearby location.
2.    Description of Public Support Program for Private Schools
The Government is clearly aware of the benefits of a flourishing private sector in junior
secondary education. Its policy orientations are explicitly stated in Repelita VI (Book IV, pp. 98-99
and 112-115 and accompanying Tables) indicating the Government's determination that private
schools should preserve and even increase their share in total junior secondary enrollments. More
important from a practical point of view, the public sector devotes significant amounts of resources,
in kind as well as in the form of money grants, to support and improve the quality of private schools.
Support in kind includes secondment of public sector teachers to private schools, distribution of
approved textbooks free of charge, provision of equipment, and training of private school teachers in
publicly funded programs. Money grants are provided to about two thirds of private schools at the
lower end of financial viability (i.e., "listed", "registered" and part of "recognized" schools).



108
Annex 12: Page 4 of 6
Teachers. For all of Indonesia seconded teachers fill 16.2% of teaching posts in private
schools, while for the 11 Provinces included in the three proposed projects this percentage varies
from 35.7% in Yogyakarta to 8.7% in East Java (1993/94 figures).
Textbooks. For private schools, estimated needs amount to 30.86 million textbooks for
students and 1.06 million teacher guides. Actual distribution during 1993/94 - 1995/96 amounted to
15.48 million textbooks for students and 0.30 million teacher guides. Thus, although large gaps still
remain, public sector contributions are very important in supplying this critical input for raising
school quality.
Teacher Training and Equipment. No tabulated information exists on the magnitude of
public sector funding for training private school teachers and supplying teaching equipment to
private schools. Officials in charge of these activities at MOEC estimate that the public sector
allocates about 20 percent of its training activities to private teachers, and distributes also about 20%
of purchased school equipment to private schools.
Operational Cost Subsidies. Public sector subsidization of the operational cost of private
schools is granted to both SLTP and Madrasah schools and is in the form of a flat amount per
classroom (uniform for all Provinces and subsidized schools). Although data on the total number of
private schools' classrooms are not available for 1995/96 and 1996/97, their numbers for 1993/94
and 1994/95 indicate that the operational cost support program covers between 50% and 55% of
SLTP classrooms, and between 90% and 95% of Madrasah classrooms, for a combined total of
about 65% of all private school classrooms. The program targets schools at the lower end of
financing capacity.
The overall level of public sector support to private schools is estimated at about US$58
million, or 9% of total public spending (development and recurrent) on junior secondary education.
Salaries of seconded teachers make up about two thirds of the total cost, textbooks and teachers
guides 17%, operational cost subsidies 12%, while teacher training and distribution of equipment
are less important cost items.
3.    Description of Project Support for Private Schools
The project's financing for such areas that are smaller parts of the Government's support
program -- including teacher training and the provision of instructional tools -- would therefore
complement the GOI's own efforts. By raising the standard of instruction at private schools, project
funding for quality inputs would help reduce the disparity between public and private education and
encourage parents to view private schooling as a worthwhile option. By stimulating demand for
private schooling in this way, the Government would limit the amount of public expenditure
required to achieve its enrollment targets.
' For 1994/95, information not yet tabulated indicates that the total number of seconded teachers
increased by about 600, while for 1995/96 the number is stabilized at 1994/95 levels.



109
Annex 12: Page S of 6
Private schools in the project provinces would benefit directly from the project activiies
listed below. In addition, private schools would benefit indirectly from such project activities as
improved Kanwil management, monitoring, and evaluation of schools and students; and the
construction of public schools, whose facilities are often used after-hours for private schooling
through teacher associations.
Central Java: (a) funding for contract teachers for rural private schools; (b) teacher in-service
training through PKG, SPKG, and MGMP programs; (c) provision of science teaching aids;
(d) provision of office equipment; (e) provision of educational equipment; and (f) provision of
library books.
Yogyakarta: (a) in-service SPKG and MGMP training for private school teachers; (b)teacher
training in use of science and media equipment and other technologies; (c)training for school
librarians; (d) management training for school administrators; (e)provision of audiovisual aids; (f)
provision of science teaching equipment; (g) provision of reference and library books; (h) provision
of social science teaching tools; (i)support for ongoing international assessments of student
performance; and (j) support for academic projects of private schools and individual students.
Central Kalimantan. (a) building materials for community construction of student dormitories in
isolated areas; (b) building materials for community construction of teacher and principal residences
in rural schools; (c) funding for contract teachers for rural schools; (d) teacher in-service training:
PKG, examinations writing, subject-specific training; (e)management training for principals;
(f) provision of reference books; and (g) provision of education equipment; (h) provision of teaching
aids and materials.
West Kalimantan: (a) funding for contract teachers for rural schools; (b) building materials for
community construction of student dormitories in isolated areas; (c) building materials for
community construction of teacher flats in rural schools; (d) teacher in-service training: SPKG,
subject mastery, MGMP; (e) training for school principals; (f) provision of library books; and (g)
provision of science teaching equipment.



110                         Annex 12: Page 6 of 6
CRITERIA FOR ASSISTANCE TO PRIVATE SCHOOLS
1. Support for quality improvement to private schools will be in the form of reference and
library books, equipment, teacher training, and management and teacher upgrading programs.
2. Assistance in the form of in-kind educational inputs is preferable to grant for the following
reasons:
*  the above inputs in-kind can lead directly to the quality improvement sought, and to
the upgrading of the accreditation of the schools;
*  outputs or outcomes of assistance are more tangible;
*  assistance is easily monitored, such as number of teachers trained, books delivered,
equipment supplied, etc.;
*  distribution of assistance is more efficient;
* possible abuse of government assistance will be minimized.
3. Priority will be given to rural, remote, or poor private schools which have the potential to
increase enrollment and quality, especially self-help community private schools. Among
those schools, priority will be given to viable private schools not receiving any other
assistance from government.
4. Assistance will be awarded annually, and maintained if the school satisfies the above criteria.
5. Eligible private schools can apply for the government assistance to the Head of MOEC
District Office (Kakandep). Private schools can also apply to the Head of MOEC Provincial
Office (Kakanwil).
6. Selection, review and decision processes will be undertaken by the Private School Assistance
Committee at Kanwil Office.
7. Recipient school will receive assistance annually, and can be extended upon satisfactory
performance.
8. The effectiveness of the private school assistance program would be monitored annually
using basic educational indicators in a structured format.



Annex 13: Page I of6                   111
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Background
The origins of project design and the proposed management arrangements for this
project are rooted in lessons of experience from earlier projects, especially the Second
Secondary Education and Management Project (Loan 3158-IND). The design elements in the
proposed Central Indonesia Project are therefore a logical sequel to earlier tested and improved
project design elements. What worked in the earlier project is being refined and incorporated in
the proposed project. Other elements are being revised. The major design difference between
this and the earlier project is however in the proposed project management arrangements.
Beneficiary participation is a major project design feature. The center of gravity of project
implementation for the proposed project will be in the province, and provincial differences are
explicitly acknowledged in project design elements.
The sectoral analysis and preparation for this project took place amidst important
institutional changes that date back about three years. The emphasis has been on: (a)
strengthening the participatory features of the project (such as the involvement of the lower
tiers of the administration, schools and communities) in decision making that immediately
affects them; (b) strengthening province-level implementation with respect to province-specific
sector analysis, project design and implementation; and (c) strengthening the national-level
implementation capacity as a coordinator, education policy analyst, problem solver and provider
of technical assistance to the provinces.
Participatory Features
Because of implementation difficulties in the Second Secondary Education and
Management Project (Loan 31 58-IND), parts of that project have since 1994 been used to pilot-
test new implementation approaches in five provinces (including two of the provinced/ that are
supported under the Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project). Beneficiary
participation has been a major element of the new approach.
A milestone was reached in this respect in December 1994 when the Directorate of
Secondary Education (Dikmenum) with Bank assistance conducted a two-day seminar with
stakeholders from the five pilot provinces as well as six other provinces that were proposed for
follow-on operations at that time. The seminar helped: (a) clearly define the objectives of the
proposed pilot project and its successor; (b) review options for project management structures,
responsibilities and implementation procedures; and build consensus provinces on
implementation of the above. The primary audience was staff at various levels of provincial
governments that were the most likely to be involved in project preparation and implementation
I/ Central Kalimantan and Yogyakarta. The other three pilot project provinces are South Sulawesi, NTB and West Java.



112                            Annex 13: Page 2 of 6
of the first few junior secondary education projects. About 120 staff attended and were actively
involved in workshop activities.
Sectoral analysis and project development under the currently proposed project have
built on experiences from this workshop. Several workshops on sectoral issues, project design
and institutional framework have subsequently been conducted at different times and locations.
The result is a series of provincially organized project proposals that have been developed with
major involvement from the stakeholders: province and district-level education officers
(Kanwils and Kandeps), parent organizations (BP3), schools and educational societies
(Yayasan). See Attachment 1.
Beneficiary participation will continue throughout project implementation.
Communities will participate in project development through regular meetings at the sub-
district level attended by members of BP3, school principals, village chiefs, religious leaders,
and community social-service workers. These meetings will propose and evaluate possible
project activities appropriate to local conditions and consistent with local needs. Sub-district
proposals would be submitted through the Kandep to the Provincial Project Implementation
Unit (PPIU) for its review against agreed criteria and possible inclusion in the project.
A key concept of the proposed project is, that detailed annual work programs would be
prepared each year. The costs and details of the outer implementation years have been
tentatively estimated, but these cost estimates will not be considered firm until an annual
budgeting and evaluation process has taken place each implementation year. The process of
preparation and implementation of Annual Work Plans and Budgets will therefore be a central
feature of the proposed project. This process is entirely consistent with existing Government
budget planning procedures, but under the proposed project the involvement of project
beneficiaries in this process would be explicitly strengthened. Sub-district proposals would be
submitted at specified times annually to the Provincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU) in
each province for its review, culling, or possibly further development in accordance with agreed
criteria and procedures.
The selection of good alternatives would thus help guide the development of the project
as it unfolds. For example, committee members could elect to apply for using project funds to a
cluster of villages for the purpose of establishing boarding facilities at a given location.
During such submissions, project implementors at the Kanwil level vould be informed
about actions that the communities would be prepared to carry out in return for project-supplied
benefits. For example, in return for receiving funds for establishing boarding facilities, there
could be an undertaking by a cluster of villages to organize themselves to maintain a sustainable
boarding system in one village for the cluster.
Province-level Implementation
Provincial Structure Provincial involvement in sectoral analysis and project design
has shown that there is a growing capacity to implement the proposed project. During the
preparation process, Kanwil staff have conducted sectoral analyses, commissioned project



Annex 13: Page 3 of 6                       113
preparation reports from lower administrative tiers, and appraised and revised these reports for
discussions with Bank missions. The continuing challenge is to identify potential strengths and
weaknesses for project implementation.
Because of the above strengths and the rapidly developing human capabilities in the
provinces, the project would be implemented through existing line authorities at the Kanwil
level. There would be no expansion of staff positions: existing positions would be used, and/or
converted temporarily for project use as and when necessary. Similarly, there would be no
structural changes in the administrative system. Project-specific task forces, commensurate
with the focus and specificity of each of the four provincial sub-projects would be established as
necessary. Each of these task forces would be composed of existing staff at the Kanwil-level,
and -- where appropriate -- at the Kandep level. These task forces would grow and contract as
necessary during project implementation. Judging from discussions in the provinces it has
become clear that the above concept is not only viable: it embodies the ongoing concept of
empowering and engaging existing provincial staff in sectoral analysis and project preparation.
Large numbers of Kanwil and Kandep staff have participated in the project design process and
have actively developed and honed their project design skills since late 1994.
To lend a focal point to the proposed implementation arrangements, a PPIU under the
overall leadership of Kakanwil, would be established in each Province. A senior staff (such as
the head of secondary education -- Kabid-Dikmenum -- or someone under his/her supervision)
would function as the Project Manager. He/she would be responsible for the day-to-day
management of the project and would report to Kakanwil on all matters pertaining to the
project. He/she would also keep the project authorities in Jakarta (Dikmenum) informed about
progress, including any events that threatened progress, such as the lack of human or financial
resources to resolve emerging problems.
A Provincial Project Advisory Committee in each province would provide overall
implementation guidance to the PPIU. The advisory committee would meet at least twice a
year, or whenever major project decisions must be made. It would be chaired by KaKanwil and
have membership from the senior-most tiers of the public and private education system in each
province plus representatives of other government agencies. The advisory committees would vet
and compare proposals from sub-districts. The advisory committee in each province would also
draw on information and ideas submitted to it from the lower tiers of the administrative system
(Kabupaten and Kecamatan).
A technical resource group in each province would assist in technical analysis of
sectoral issues, detailed project design, troubleshooting on an ad-hoc basis, and staff
training/guidance. It would include consultants as needed, plus access to provincial staff
(including IKIPs/Universities) with specialized project-related skills. It would also be able to
call on technical expertise from Dikmenum in Jakarta whenever necessary.
In terms of routine project implementation, there would typically be the following five
implementation divisions, carrying out the annually agreed tasks and reporting to the Manager
of the PPIU:



114                           Annex 13. Page 4 of 6
*  Civil Works and Procurement This team would be headed by the existing procurement
officer in each Kanwil. He/she would cany out the agreed procurement actions each year in
close cooperation with the executing engineer in Public Works (school construction). This
team would also liaise with the national procurement team to ensure the technical quality of
procurement.
*  Quality Improvement. This team would typically be headed by the training officer in each
province, but would also draw on other educational staff resources, such as examinations
staff.
*  Accounting. The head of the financing section of the Kanwil office would be responsible
for maintaining project accounts in an agreed format.
*  Progress Monitoring. This team would monitor progress on all project aspects, especially
the process indicators and the agreed outcome indicators.
*  Supervision and Evaluation. This would be a trouble-shooting team, destined to work on
project related issues as they emerge, and to evaluate the significance of outcomes as they
become evident.
Review and Criteria for Annual Project Activities. The PPIU would review the
annually submitted proposals and project ideas against several explicit and well-advertised
criteria. On completion of its review in October each year, the PPIU would: (a) discuss the
technical merits and scope of the proposals with a Bank mission; and (b) submit the results and
the proposed budget for the ensuing year to the Provincial Project Advisory Committee for its
review. The committee in turn would submit the proposal for the endorsement of the National
Education Authorities in Jakarta before submission as a budget proposal to Bappenas.  The
purpose of the endorsement of the National Education Authorities would be to ensure that the
provincial submission is in accordance with agreed Government and Bank policies, criteria,
procedures and project magnitudes. Selection criteria would include: (i) completeness; (ii)
relevance; (iii) cost-effectiveness; (iv)sustainability; and (v) implementability.
Completeness. Proposals and/or project ideas would be reviewed to test whether the
ideas were sufficiently developed to constitute a viable activity with clearly defined objectives,
inputs, costs, timetables and action plans. Technical assistance from the technical resource
group would be employed to further develop promising ideas into full-fledged proposals.
Relevance. The relevance of the submitted proposals or project ideas would be tested
against any of the stated objectives of the project, taking into account known implementation
constraints. Proposals that failed to meet this test would be rejected. The following questions
would be asked: (i) is this proposal a high-priority item in terms of poverty alleviation? (ii) are
the complementary resources in place that make this item viable (such as a trained and
motivated science teacher when asking for science equipment); (iii) is the proposed usage of
this item high enough (say 75% of the school time-table); or (iv) are there specific usage plans
in place (e.g. in the case of administrative blocks -- would it improve teacher performance? --
would it be used e.g. to house library collections etc.) that justify this investment? why would
an administrative block be a higher priority than a standard classroom? etc.).
Cost-effectiveness.  The cost-effectiveness merits of submitted proposals would be
tested against alternatives for delivering comparable educational service.  The following



Annex 13: Page 5 of 6                       115
questions would be asked: (i) are there alternative ways of delivering this service?; (ii) if the
answer to (i) is yes, are there less costly alternatives? and if the answer to (ii) is yes, the question
of the relative effectiveness of the different approaches would have to be asked. This test would
be of particular relevance to the comparisons of proposals for boarding vs transportation of
teachers between schools). Proposals that combined relative effectiveness with modest costs
would prevail over less cost-effective alternatives.
Sustainability. The long-term sustainability of the proposals would be tested against
their implications for recurrent costs in the Government's budget, and their likely implications
for long-term effects on households in the affected communities.
Implementability.   The question of whether the submitted proposal could be
implemented, given possible institutional, managerial and other non-financial constraints,
would be an important evaluation criterion.
National-level Implementation
The National implementation agencies would have a dual role. First, they would be
responsible for monitoring overall progress, and ensuring that project implementation (as it
unfolds through the Annual Workplan and Budget process) is in accordance with project
objectives and agreed project criteria and rules. Second, they would guide the provinces and
provide (or locate the sources of) the necessary technical assistance to ensure that the project
implements as planned.
Dikmenum would be the principal national level project coordinating agency.
Distinctly different from the roles of the provincial (Kanwil) offices, its role would be that of
project oversight and facilitation -- not implementation. Dikmenum would: (a) ensure that
provincial implementation focuses on achieving agreed project objectives; (b) assist the
provinces in establishing appropriate annual work plans; (c) help ensure timely preparation of
regional project budgets (DIP); (d) assist in establishing appropriate management information
systems (both financial and substantive) for use at the Kanwil level as well as at the National
level; (e) disseminate information to the provinces in order to highlight promising regional
approaches in sub-project selection and design; and (f) identify or provide technical assistance
to the provinces to ensure compliance with agreed project-specific rules and regulations.
Dikmenum would help design and implement national and provincial capacitybuilding
plans as the project unfolds. This would include assisting the provinces establish appropriate
project information systems and procedures on the principle that relevant information from one
system would feed into the next system, and that there would be meaningful back and forth flow
of information across administrative levels. These information and support systems would
include: (i) budgeting systems; (ii) accounting (keeping track of the sources and application of
funds); (iii) procurement (keep track of progress and provide assistance in documentation); (iv)
process indicators (keeping track of implementation progress and in providing project resources
to its beneficiaries); and (v) project outcome indicators (keeping track of whether project
resources are having an effect on its beneficiaries). This is further discussed below:



116                        Annex 13. Page 6 of 6
*  Budgeting Systems (including Special Accounts). The project includes four provinces and
major implementation activities at the Kandep level (construction). All project budgets (the
DIP -- Government and Bank) would be channeled annually to the provinces in accordance
with normal Government investment budgeting procedures. The provinces would arrange
payments to contractors through standard government procedures. The Special Account
would be located in the Bank of Indonesia. Payments would be authorized by provincial
Treasury offices of the MOF in accordance with existing well-established procedures.
*  Project accounts would be established in such a way that meaningful information about
unit costs of project activities could be obtained as the project progresses. The currently
used standardized format under Loan 3158 would be revised and used under the proposed
project to record agreed expenditure categories (e.g. from COSTAB). The financial
recording would include the following monitoring devices in a descending order of
accuracy: (i) the original indicative plans (from COSTAB at preparation/appraisal); (ii) the
annual work plans as they develop each year; (iii) agreed annual budgets; (iv) actual
commitments (by year); (v) actual expenditures (by year); and (vi) actual disbursements
from the proposed Loan.
To assist in the above revisions of the accounting systems, an Indonesian accounting
firm would be hired for a period of about three months. This firm would review and revise the
financial information system at both the provincial and national levels and train education staff
in its use. Special attention would be paid to ensure that the specific financial information needs
of each administrative level would be well served. The accounting systems would become a
part of the overall project management and information system of the project.
*   Procurement Documents and Procedures. The Central Program Coordination Unit in
Dikmenum would have an important role to play in establishing appropriate procurement
documents and procedures under the proposed project and in providing appropriate
technical assistance in this respect to the provinces. Such documents and procedures for the
procurement of equipment have been developed under the "Pilot" part of the Second
Secondary Education and Management Project (Loan 31 58-IND). These documents will be
further adapted, developed and applied to the proposed project as it comes on stream.
*   Process Indicators An Implementation Monitoring System would in part be fed by
information from the accounting system. It would also include information about non-
financial progress in the project, such as deliveries of educational materials and numbers of
teachers trained.
*  Project Outcome Indicators. The outcomes of the proposed project would be monitored
throughout its implementation through three key indicators, each of which would be
disaggregated by gender and poverty-level. In addition to the above education indicators,
the efficiency of various parts of the system would be measured through ongoing
econometric studies.



Annex 13: Attachment 1: Page 1 of 5                    117
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
STAKEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION AND CONSULTATION PROCESS
Preliminary Stakeholder Identification
The following stakeholders have been identified over the last two years during mission visits.
Stakeholders                                   Functions and Interests
1. Local communities and parents               Direct beneficiaries of the program who need to
play a central role in the development of the
projects.
2. Community, Religious, and Private Education    These Foundations should make a significant
Foundations which establish and run schools    contribution to the development of junior secondary
education, and examine how their operations can be
refined to support GOI policy
3. Provincial and District Education Offices   These offices should take greater responsibility for
i) project design, so as to address local/provincial
contexts, and ii) for project implementation and
impact.
4. Ministry of Religious Affairs               MORA should explore opportunities for expansion
ofjunior secondary education through madrasahs
5. Ministry of Public Works                    MPW can contribute its expertise for the
rehabilitation and construction of schools
6. Local Government provincial and district offices   They can provide useful information on local
conditions to guide project preparation and
evaluation.
7. School principals and teachers              Use their intimate knowledge of the education
system to help define constraints and identify
solutions
8. Teacher Training Institutions and Faculties  They have a direct interest in ensuring that their
graduates are adequately trained in numbers and
quality so that they fully support the program.
9. The Open University                        It should identify ways of improving its
effectiveness in basic training for teachers, and
possibly start helping with in-service teacher
training programs.
10. Bappenas                                   Will provide funds and ensure that the program is
implemented in a way consistent with national
policies.



118                          Annex 13. Attachment 1. Page 2 of 5
Preliminary stakeholder consultation carried out during previous missions include:
Date           Location                      Participants           Discussion
7/94           Ujung Pandang (Note: the      Kanwil Office          To review the experience with
discussions in Ujung Padang                          project design and
focused on project design and                        implementation in the province
implementation issues in the                         and discuss issues in the
"pilot project" of Loan 3158-                        development of junior secondary
IND. Promising ideas of the pilot                    education.
have since been incorporated in
the Central Indonesia Project.
7/94           Ujung Pandang                 Governor's Office      To assess local government
interest and potential support for
the development of junior
secondary education.
7/94           Ujung Pandang                 Local Government       To discuss local government
Public Works           participation in school
Department            construction.
7/94           Ujung Pandang                 IKIP                   To discuss teacher supply and
demand issues and organization's
role in teacher training in the
province.
7/94           Ujung Pandang                 Public and Private      To discuss the link between
Universities          secondary and higher education
and the role of the universities in
the province.
7/94           Ujung Pandang                 Non-Governmental       To discuss the contribution of
School Foundations     private schools to education in
the province.
12/94          Jakarta                       120 representatives of    To discuss the concept, feasibility
the education and      and key concepts of involving a
planning departments in  large array of stakeholders in
11 provinces and     project analysis, design and
selected districts.    preparation.
4/95           Semarang, Central Java        Representatives of     To evaluate District level
District Education     participation in project
Offices in the Province   preparation.
4/95           Kudus, Central Java           School Principals and  To identify problems at the
Teachers              school level in the district
4/95           Kudus, Central Java           Private school         To assess contribution of private
proprietors            schools to education in the
province
6/14/95        Boyolali, Central Java        District Education     To discuss District proposal for
Office                 the development of junior
secondary education
6/15/95        Boyolali, Central Java        School Principals and  To identify problems related to
Teachers               development ofjunior secondary
education at the school level
6/15/95        Boyolali, Central Java        Managers of Private    To discuss the role of private
School Foundations    schools in the district
6/15/95        Boyolali, Central Java        Parent Teacher         To assess constraints to sending
Associations           children to school at the parental
level



Annex 13: Attachment 1: Page 3 of 5                           119
6/16/95        Boyolali, Central Java          Representatives of the    To discuss the role of religious
Ministry of Religious  schools in the district
Affairs
10/23/95       Palangkaraya, Central          Representatives of      To evaluate District level
Kalinantan                     District Education      participation in project
Offices in the Province    preparation.
10/25/95       Takaras Junior Secondary School  District Education    To discuss different means of
(50 miles up-river from        officer, teachers and   improving existing, distant
Palangkaraya).                 parents.                schools.
10/25/95       Tumbang Jutuh Junior Secondary  District Education     To discuss different means of
School (100 miles up-river from   officers, teachers and  improving existing, distant
Palangkaraya).                 parents.                schools, including boarding.
11/03/95       Pontianak, West Kalimantan     Representatives of      To evaluate District level
District Education     participation in project
Offices in the Province    preparation.
11/05/95       School visits, West Kalimantan.   District Education   To discuss different means of
officer, teachers and  improving existing, distant
parents.               schools.
1/20/96-       Semarang, Central Java         Representatives of      To assist provincial staff finalize
1/30/96                                       Provincial Education    district-level project proposals.
Offices in the Province
1/20/96-       Yogyakarta, Yogyakarta         Representatives of      To assist provincial staff finalize
1/25/96                                       Provincial Education    district-level project proposals.
Offices in the Province
1/20/96-       Palangkaraya, Central          Representatives of      To assist provincial staff finalize
1/30/96        Kalirnantan                    Provincial Education    district-level project proposals.
Offices in the Province
1/20/96-       Pontianak, West Kalimantan     Representatives of      To assist provincial staff fmialize
1/30/96                                       Provincial Education    district-level project proposals.
Offices in the Province
2/8/96         Yogyakarta, Yogyakarta          Representatives of     To assist provincial staff finalize
Provincial Education   the overall project proposals that
Offices in all four    now underpin this project.
Provinces
Other Stakeholder Consultation Activities:
In addition to the above stakeholder activities in which Bank missions have actively
participated, there have been significant consultations among various Indonesian stakeholders as
follows:
*  By the MOEC/Provincial Preparation Teams: ongoing field visits and meetings with local
governments and other stakeholders to discuss and strengthen project design;
*  By the MOEC/Provincial Preparation Teams with Bank/RSI facilitation: Periodic NGO forums;
*  Under the PHRD Grant: Provision for participatory planning meetings in Jakarta, provinces,
districts and field;
*  Under the PHRD Grant: Provisions for consultations on the development of social marketing
strategies for the expansion of junior secondary education.



120                       Annex 13: Attachment 1. Page 4 of 5
Names of People Involved in Project Preparation:
Central Kalimantan
1. Drs. H. Aspul Fansuri               (Kakanwil Depdikbud)
2. Willem Fuda, SH                     (Kormin Depdikbud)
3. Uhing Tumon, BA                     (Kabid Dikmenum Depdikbud)
4. Kakandep Depdikbud in Central Kalimantan
5. Drs. Hernie, MS                     (Univ. Palangkaraya)
6. H. Malikul Asrad                    (Kasubag pada BagKeu)
7. Drs. Trecy Anden                    (Pimbagpro PKG)
8. Ethel Pangkut                       (Kabag Perencanaan)
Central Java
1. Drs. Koesno                         (Kakanwil Depdikbud)
2. Drs. Soeparto D                     (Kormin Depdikbud)
3. Drs. Moch. Sahid                    (Kabid Dikmenum Depdikbud)
4. Ir. Suhadi                          (Kabag Perencanaan)
5. Sudomosekti, SE                     (Kasubag PRP)
6. Drs. Nurhadi Amiyanto, Med          (Staff Dikmenum)
7. Zainal Abidin                       (Staff Bagian Perencanaan)
8. Drs. Paulus                         (Staff Bagian Perencanaan)
9. Iman Ichwandi                       (Staff Bagian Perencanaan)
10. Kakandep Depdikbud in Central Java
West Kalimantan
1. Prof. Masyor Almutahar              (Kakanwil Depdikbud)
2. Drs. Aman Jasin                     (Kabid Dikmenum Depdikbud)
3. Dr. Maswardi M. Amin
4. Asep Sofian, MEd
5. Drs. H. Ichsani AS                  (Bappeda)
6. Drs. Wadjidi Yasin
7. Drs. Syarif Yusmaniarsyah
8. Drs. Winarto
9. Drs. Andreas M.
10. Jusuf Matsyah
11. Kakandep Depdikbud in West Kalimantan
D. I. Yogyakarta:
1. Drs. Achmad DS                      (Kakanwil Depdikbud)
2. Drs. Wahyuntono
3. Drs. Masyari Subagyono
4. Drs. Sunarjo



Annex 13: Attachment 1: Page 5 of 5                 121
5. Drs. Siti Fatimah
6. Drs. Maryono Basri
7. Drs. Supriyono
8. Sugiyanto SH
9. Drs. Marjo
10. Drs. Tugini Triharyati
11. Ir. Suparman
12. Drs. Asep Samsudin
13. Drs. Bambang Irianto
14. Dra Mandarsih
15. Parman
16. Drs. Ambar Yunani
17. Bekti Murheni
18. Kakandep Depdikbud in D.I. Yogyakarta
Dikmenum Jakarta:
1. Prof. Drs. Z. A. Achmady
2. Dr. Boediono
3. Dr. Ir. Harris Iskandar
4. Dr. Shafiq Dhanani
5. Drs. Sungkowo
6. Ir. Budianto
7. Ir. Estty Purwadiani Hidayatie
8. Tagor Alamsyah Harahap
9. Respati Hastomo
10. Eru Achmad Sutaman
PHRD Preparation Consultants:
1. Dr. Suyata
2. Noehi Nasution, M.A.
3. Dr. Herwindo
4. Tony Somerset
5. Bambang Irianto, M.App.Sc.
6. Wardani, M.Sc.
7. Dr. Rusly Mahady
8. Paul Richardson
9. Dr. Syamsun
10. Dr. Revrisond Baswir
11. Dr. Masykur Wiratmo
12. Yves Tencalla
13. Stavros Apergis
14. Peter Morrison
15. Vincent Fruchart



122                 Annex 13: Attachment 2: Page I of 6
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
Terms of Reference
Central Program Advisory Committee
Objective. To provide policy guidance to the Central Program Coordination Unit from
the perspective of education authorities both in the Directorate of Secondary Education and in
other relevant agencies and in MOEC and other ministries, and to provide a forum for
discussing education policy and planning issues which will have an impact on project
implementation.
Members. Chaired by the Director-General of Primary and Secondary Education, the
committee will comprise the following members:
(a)    MOEC:
Secretary General
Director-General, Higher Education
Head, Research and Development Office
(b)    Other Agencies:
Head, Bureau of Religion, Education, Culture and Sport, BAPPENAS
Director-General, Binbaga, MORA
Director-General, Budget, Ministry of Finance
Tasks. The tasks of the Central Program Advisory Committee will consist of:
(a)    Annual coordination meetings to review project progress and discuss major policy
issues affecting project implementation;
(b)    Annual review of provincial annual work plans and budgets;
(c)    Exchange information on medium and long-term education policies and plars.



Annex 13: Attachment 2: Page 2 of 6               123
Terms of Reference
Provincial Project Advisory Committee
Objective. The objective of the Provincial Project Advisory Committee is to ensure
that project implementation will be consistent with project objectives and Government policy.
The Committee will provide overall implementation guidance to the PPIU.
Composition. The Provincial Project Advisory Committee will be chaired by
KaKanwil and its membership will be comprised of related agencies and institutions dealing
with the education system.
Tasks. The advisory committee will give guidance to project implementors on the
merits of proposals submitted. The committee will review proposals from kabupaten and
kecamatan to make sure that annual work plans are in line with implementation criteria and
guidelines. This committee will work closely with the existing provincial Coordination Team
for Nine Years Basic Education (Tim Koordinasi Wajar). The advisory committee will meet at
least twice a year, or whenever major project decisions need to be made.



124                Annex 13: Attachment 2: Page 3 of 6
Terms of Reference
Central Program Coordination Unit
Objectives. The Central Program Coordination Unit (CPCU) will have three
objectives: (a) it will monitor overall progress, and ensure that project implementation (as it
unfolds through the Annual Work Plan and Budget process) is in accordance with project
objectives and agreed project criteria, rules and guidelines; (b) it will guide the provinces and
provide (or locate the sources of) the necessary technical assistance to ensure that the project
implements as planned; and (c) it will carry out central program activities that may affect more
than one project.
Composition Existing staff in Dikmenum, augmented as necessary by project-financed
consultants will be at the core of the management team.
Tasks, Roles and Responsibilities. The Director of Dikmenum will head the Central
Program Coordination Unit and coordinate the overall program of expanding junior secondary
education. An important function of the Central Program Coordination Unit will be to monitor
implementation achievements in the different provinces through progress reports and
monitoring indicators and to keep the Government and the Bank informed in this respect.
Dikmenum's role as the national level program coordination unit will be distinciy
different from the roles of the provincial (Kanwil) offices. As a program coordinator, its role
will be that of oversight and facilitation -- not implementation. Dikmenum will therefore: (a)
ensure that provincial implementation focuses on achieving their agreed project objectives as
measured through the agreed project-specific monitoring indicators; (b) assist the provinces in
establishing appropriate annual work plans and monitor that these are carried out in accordance
with agreed priorities, criteria and procedures; (c) help ensure timely preparation of regional
project budgets (DIP); (d) assist in establishing appropriate management information systems
(both financial and substantive) for use at the Kanwil level as well as at the National level; (e)
disseminate information to the provinces in order to highlight promising regional approaches in
the design of Annual Work Plans and Budgets; and (f) identify or provide technical assistance
to the provinces to ensure compliance with agreed project-specific criteria, rules and
regulations.
Linkages to the Provincial Teams. Dikmenum will also help design and implement
national and provincial capacity building plans as the project unfolds. This will include
assisting the provinces establish appropriate project information systems and procedures on the
principle that relevant information from one system will feed into the next system, and that
there will be meaningful back and forth flow of information across administrative levels.
Supervisory Functions. Dikmenum will have a procurement supervisory function to
help ensure that the project is implemented in accordance with the stipulations of the Loan
Agreement and the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The CPCU will appoint procurement
specialists to provide training and technical assistance to PPIUs in the preparation of
procurement documents and to review documents from the provinces to ensure that they are in
line with project procurement guidelines.



Annex 13: Attachment 2: Page 4 of 6                 125
CENTRAL PROGRAM COORDINATION UNIT (CPCUD
DIRECTOR GENERAL               CENTRAL PROGRAM
World                 Primary and Secondary               ADVISORY
Bank                  Education (DGPSE)      - -        COMMITTEE
DGPSE (Chairman)
Secretary General, MOEC
DG, Higher Ed, MOEC
Head, ERD, MOEC
Head, RECS, BAPPENAS
DG, Budget, MOF
PROGRAM DIRECTOR                   DG, Binbaga, MORA
:..........  (DIRECTOR DIKMENUM)
National Advisor
International Advisor
ADMINISTRATION:                           LIAISON OFFICE:
Project Manager,                      Central Indonesia Junio
Treasurer,                           Secondary Education
Administration Officer,                         Project
Technical Officer
East Java and East Nusa
Tenggara Junior
Secondary Education
National                                            Project
.........................................................    ...... ...................................................... . . .
Province
Provincial Project
Directors
Administration Officer:
(Procurement and Disbursement)
Technical Officer:
(School Quality/Teacher Development,
Planning and Management, School
Construction, Monitoring & Evaluation



126                   Annex 13. Attachment 2: Page 5 of 6
Terms of Reference
Provincial Project Implementation Unit
Objectives. In order to get the project effectively implemented, the projects will be
executed through existing line authorities at the Kanwil level. There will be no expansion of
staff positions: existing positions will be used, and/or converted temporarily for project use as
and when necessary. Similarly, there will be no structural changes in the administrative system.
Team, Organization and Responsibilities. Project-specific task forces, commensurate
with the focus and specificity of each of the provincial projects will be established as necessary.
Each of these task forces will be composed of existing staff at the Kanwil-level, and -- where
appropriate -- at the Kandep level. These task forces will grow and contract as necessary during
project implementation.
KaKanwil in each Province will be responsible for project implementation. To lend a
focal point to the proposed implementation arrangements, a Provincial Project Implementation
Unit (PPIU) under the overall leadership of KaKanwil, will be established in each Province.
This PPIU, managed by the head of the secondary education group (Kabid-Dikmenum) or a
Dikmenum staff member working under his/her supervision, will form the core of the proposed
implementation arrangement. The manager of the PPIU will be responsible for the day-to-day
management of the project and will report to KaKanwil on all matters pertaining to the project.
He/she will also keep the project authorities in Jakarta (Dikmenum) informed about progress,
including any events that threatened progress, such as the lack of human or financial resources
to resolve emerging problems. If necessary, one full-time monitoring officer and one or two
support staff will assist the manager of the PPIU in keeping track of implementation progress.
The PPIU will be assisted by a technical resource group in each province for the
duration of the project. The duties of this group, including that of consultants, will be to assist
in technical analysis of sector issues, prepare annual plans and detailed project designs,
troubleshoot on an ad-hoc basis, and conduct staff training/guidance. The technical resource
group will have access to other staff resources (including those from IKIPs/Universities) with
specialized project-related skills.
Tasks. Under the PPIU, there will typically be the following five divisions to carry out
the following functions: (a) Procurement and Civil Works; (b) Quality Improvement;
(c) Accounting; (d) Progress Monitoring; and (e) Supervision and Evaluation.
Relationship with the CPCU. Each Provincial Project Implementation Unit will work
in close liaison with the Central Program Coordination Unit in Jakarta. All official project
correspondence with the Bank will be channeled through DGPSE, except as specifically
delegated by the Director-General.
Advisory Committee. A Provincial Project Advisory Committee (see separate terms of
reference) will provide overall implementation guidance to the PPIU.



Annex 13: Attachment 2: Page 6 of 6              127
PROVINCLAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (P!PIIJ
PROGRAM
DIRECTOR
PROVINCIAL
PROJECT DIRECTOR                     PROJECT
(Head, MOEC Provincial .-.----      ADVISORY
Office/ Kakanwil)               COMMITTEE
Kakanwil (Chairman)
Head, Secondary Ed
Head, Planning Div.
Head, Facility Div.
Head, Personnel Div.
Prov. Public Work,
Prov. MORA,
KPKN,
BAPPEDA,
PROJECT MANAGER                    MPS (Council for
Treasurer, Administration         Private Education)
Officer
Province
District
DISTRICT
TASK FORCE
(Head of District MOEC
Office, Kakandep)



128                          Annex 14: Page I of 2
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Introduction
This plan describes how project progress will be monitored and impact will be
evaluated. Reporting on monitoring and evaluation results will be done within the context of
Bank progress reporting. In this Annex, the details of this reporting process will be
described.
Bank Reporting
Project progress reporting to the Bank will be on a semi-annual cycle. These half
yearly progress reports will cover project status (physical progress, financial and performance
status) and will include the status of the performance indicators. The progress report will be
prepared one month in advance of the half-yearly supervision missions from the Bank.
(a) Format of Progress Report
The half-yearly progress report should include the following sections:
*  A narrative section describing progress of each of the components, issues that
have arisen, problems, delays, suggested changes, and decisions that were made
during the last six months.
*  An updated list of the performance indicators, giving the latest information
available for each.
*  A section listing the recommendations and agreements made during the last Bank
supervision mission and actions or present position, six months later.
*  A list of all contract activities expected during the next year.
*  A set of tables covering the following:
Expenditures to date, by category of expense and by component;
Status of training activities, listing number and type of training courses,
number of participants, duration of each course, cost of each course;
Status of technical assistance contracts: number of person-months planned
and currently used, cost of contracts and disbursements;
Status of civil works: number of contracts, location, type of school covered
and cost for each contract.



Annex 14: Page 2 of 2                      129
* An update of the project implementation schedule to show actual status of
milestones and tasks, against the original plan. At each supervision, these will be
reviewed, their status evaluated, and the plan updated to reflect progress. An
updated version of the implementation schedule will then be produced, showing
actual, planned, and adjustments.
(b) Performance Indicators
The performance and process indicator tables (Annex 15) lists the outcome and
output indicators that will be monitored during the project. Most of the indicators
listed will be collected and maintained in each of project Kanwil offices, with input
from the Kandep offices. The information management component of the project will
assist Kanwils and Kandeps in the effective management of this information.
(c) Supervision Schedule
Supervision missions will be held twice a year, during the project implementation
period. A planned mission schedule is listed in Annex 16. The mid-term review
mission will carry out a more thorough review; this mission will review overall
progress since the beginning of the implementation period, and will evaluate the need
for adjustments or restructuring of the project for the remainder of the project period.
Additional Reports and Reviews
A few special reviews will also be carried out during project implementation, to
further support monitoring of progress. These reviews will be carried out by
independent external consultants and will be managed by the Program Coordination
Unit in Dikmenum.
*  Survey, in preparation for mid-term, to evaluated progress in improving
management skills and processes in Kanwils and Kandeps;
* Annually, a review of expenditures of government funds by private schools;
*  Annually, monitoring of the effectiveness of the scholarship fund selection and
distribution;
*  At mid-term, a review of the effectiveness of the contract teachers program.



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
OUTPUT PERFORMANCE MONITORING: SUGGESTED RATING SYSTEM
w
(a) Increase access to   MOEC/MORA       Annual MOEC    MOEC data on           Increase in enrollment as a percentage of total capacity
JSS                   data on enrollment  data on          enrollment in       of created schools:
- Students enrolled in  in new regular   enrollment in     project schools.    HS - 30% in first year, 60% in second year, and 90% in
Project's new schools  and Terbuka       new regular and                      the third year and after.
and SMP Terbuka.      schools.           Terbuka schools.                      S - 25% in first year, 50% in second year and 75% in
third year and after
US - 20% in first year, 40% in second year and 60% in
third year and after
.HU - 15% in first year, 30% in second year and 45% in
third year and after
- Students enrolled in   MOEC/MORA       Annual MOEC    MOEC data on           Increase in enrollment in the sub-district as a percentage    _
Project's sub-district   data on enrollment  data on       enrollment in       of the expectedI enrollment in the various grades:
by sub-district    enrollment by    Project's sub-      HS - over 90%
sub-district     district            S - 75 to 90%
US - 60 to 75%
HU - below 60%
Expected enrollment is calculated on the basis of the previous year's enrollment plus the new school capacity created by the project and minus the capacity created by the private sector
and other education projects



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
'< . ' ''   "''   B  '"''"''"''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V-.1  .........  .  ., ....                                    .... ...  .... .........  ..........
(b) Improve quality    MOEC/EDC data    Annual NEM                NEM  scores for the  An increase in NEM  scores during project period: H-S-
at JSS                   student               scores in public    various types of     of 0.2 points; S - 0.1 points; U - 0.0 points
-Improvement in          examination          and private         schools and
student examination      performance          regular and         subjects
scores by province and  (NEM scores)          Terbuka schools
district according to                         and for key
the school                                    subject areas3                                                                                          ;
classification2 
(c) Improve              MOEC data on         Percentage          Percentage of         Percent of budget spent and targets met annually: HS -        _
educational              current percentage   change in           annual budget         92 to 98 percent, S - 80 to 92 percent, US - Below 80..
management               of budget spent      amount of           spent and targets     percent                                                      c
-Implementation rate    and physical          budget spent and   met each year over 
of annual Project and   targets met           physical targets   the project period 
Province work            annually             met annually
program
Key: HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; US = Unsatisfactory; H-U = Highly Unsatisfactory.
2 MOEC school classification: (I) Excellent, > 7.50; (2) Good, 6.50 - 7.50; (3) Average, 5.50 - 6.50; (4) Below Average, 4.50 - 5.50; (5) Poor, < 4.50.
3 The key subjects to be monitored are science and Technology, Math, English, Bahasa Indonesia, Pancasila and Social Education



132                           Annex 16: Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Supervision Plan
Date:          Mlission Objectives        Mission Composiin:        (Staff .Weeks)
September 1996   Project Launch Workshop   Education Specialist                2
Implementation Specialist          2
Human Resource Economist           I
April 1997       Review of Central and     Education specialist                2
West Kalimantan          Implementation specialist           2
September 1997   Review of Central Java and  Education specialist              2
Yogyakarta               Implementation specialist           2
April 1998       Review of Central and     Education specialist                2
West Kalimantan          Implementation specialist           2
September 1998   Review of Central Java and  Education specialist              2
Yogyakarta               Implementation specialist           2
April 1999       Review of Central and     Education specialist                2
West Kalimantan          Implementation specialist           2
October 1999     Mid-term Review: review   Education specialist                2
of all four provinces and    Implementation specialist       2
plan for remaining project   Human Resource Economist        2
April 2000       Review of Central Java and  Education specialist              2
Yogyakarta               Implementation specialist           2
September 2000   Review of Central and     Education specialist                2
West Kalimantan          Implementation specialist           2
April 2001       Review of Central Java and  Education specialist              2
Yogyakarta               Implementation specialist           2
October 2001     Implementation            Education specialist                2
Completion Report        Implementation specialist           2
Human Resource Economist           2
______________       :i:   if       :Total                                    :49



Annex 17: Page 1 of 3                    133
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL AUDIT
Objectives
1.    To ensure the accountability to the Government, the World Bank, the participant
communities and all stakeholders involved, a Technical Audit of the various project
components would be conducted annually. The goal of the technical audits would be to
provide impartial assessment of quality and efficiency of the methods and procedures
employed by Provincial Project Implementation Units (PPIUs) in the provinces and the
Central Program Coordination Unit (CPCU) at central MOEC in the implementation of the
project and the impact of this at school and administrative levels.
Team Composition, Qualification and Leadership
2.    Independence and Expertise.  The technical audit would be carried out by
independent consultants with no association with the project and with qualifications and
experience in: (a) the operations and management of junior secondary schools, including
open junior secondary schools; (b) teacher training strategies and assessment; (c) use of
library books and other educational resources; (d) use of other instructional materials; (e)
student examinations and performance assessment strategies, techniques and dissemination;
(f) location and adequacy of school construction; (g) selection and management of
scholarship program; (h) science education at junior secondary level; (i) development of
social marketing instruments; and (j) provincial, district, and school management practices.
3.    Qualification of Team Members. The Technical Audit Team (TAT) members must
have the academic qualification and demonstrated expertise in one or more of the areas
identified above (para. 2). To this end, they would be required to submit: (a) a signed
curriculum vitae, and a copy of major diplomas; (b) a letter of acceptance to act as member
of the TAT; and evidence of no commitment to other job during the period of the contract.
4.    Team Leadership. Even though characterized by an interdisciplinary approach the
Technical Audit Team would be required to have a leader to coordinate the operation, its
efficiency and quality of the final products.
Scope and Procedures
5.    The overall purpose of the technical audit is to identify those processes and outcomes
which are not easily captured by the annual missions or financial audits (which they are not
supposed to replace). The following activities can be mentioned as typical examples of the
concerns addressed by TAT: the educational interaction at classroom level and the best
utilization of teacher's time; what and how students are learning in classroom; how
educational resource materials are being used in everyday school life as a complement to



134                            Annex 17: Page 2 of 3
classroom activities; the development of the science education study in the selected. Their
evaluation would be guided by the project's performance indicators.
Description of Tasks
6.     Regular and Open SMPs. The team would assess how effectively the different sizes
of regular SMPs operate in both the rural and urban areas, especially with reference to the
types of physical facilities and teachers provided to the schools. A detailed study of the open
SMPs would also be made to assess their effectiveness in providing junior secondary
education, and to identify the most appropriate ways of providing this type of education in a
cost-effective manner.
7.     Teacher Training Strategies and Assessment. The team needs to assess how PKG
training has changed to incorporate lessons recently learned and new strategies developed to
ensure that delivery strategies are modified appropriately to fit variety of conditions in the
project provinces. These strategies could include the following points: the participation of
headmasters to the training undergone by their teachers as a requirement for better feedback,
supervision and assistance when back in school; the establishment of a follow-up process to
make teacher training a continuum rather than a one-shot operation; inclusion of instruction
on textbook use and use of the new instructional material (including the library) in the new
training.
8.     Use of Educational Resources.  Three types of books (reading, reference and
supplementary) are to be distributed under the project, and teachers and headmasters are
expected to participate in their selection. The TAT will verify that books distributed matched
the expressed choices of teachers and headmasters. Also, their adequacy in terms of
attractiveness and interest for young readers, as well as their actual uses by students and
teachers, need to be assessed by the TAT. This survey will include the reading material
provided to SMP Terbuka, and particularly their user friendliness. The use of educational
technology for reference and teaching would also be examined carefully to evaluate their
potential use in the country.
9.     Use of Instructional Material. The TAT will survey the distribution of instructional
material to insure that teachers and headmasters were consulted prior to purchase, that the
received material met their expectation, and is effectively used in classroom activities. How
the use of this material is positively affecting student learning should be assessed in loco.
10.   Student Examinations and Assessment System. The TAT will focus its analysis on
how student assessment is conducted in classroom, data reported to provincial level, and
feedback provided back to schools and classrooms for the benefit of each teacher and the
corresponding students.  Analytical capacity at Kanwil level to study these data and
managerial capacity to disseminate them are key issues of interest, as well as the use of these
assessments by teachers to change and improve their teaching methods. With regard to
examinations the TAT will evaluate the effectiveness of improvements in the preparation,
administration, scoring and reporting of examination results at the school, district and
province levels and the impact of this on student learning.



Annex 17: Page 3 of 3                      135
11.   Construction Site andAdequacy. For each province, the TAT will verify that schools,
and dormitories for students and teachers built under the project were consistent with the
agreed criteria for site selection. Adequacy of these constructions should be the object of
observation and dialogue with teachers, students and communities. Three- and six-classroom
schools in the rural areas constitute an innovation that deserves careful assessment by the
TAT.
12.   Scholarship Program. The team will verify in their visits to schools that students
were awarded scholarships under the program according to agreed criteria and conditions,
and particularly the wide advertisement of the awarding processes. This will be done through
a review of sample award documents, documentation related to the flow of information
among concerned parties, and a spot check of recipients to ensure that the full scholarship is
actually received and used as intended.
13.   Science Education Study. The TAT will evaluate the utility of the different packages
of equipment provided to the different categories of schools with respect to their contribution
to improvements in science teaching, cost, and ease of use, maintenance and replacement.
14.   Management Practices and Changes. The TAT will ensure that the proper staff are
receiving the technical and managerial training at provincial, district, and school levels, and
that trained staff receive posting consistent with their newly acquired skills. It will also
ensure that equipment provided under the project is actually used as intended.
Contract and Assistance
15.   A contract will be signed between the Central Program Coordination Unit (CPCU) at
Dikmenum and the selected audit team for a month a year starting in 1997. The CPCU will
be responsible for TAT's schedule and follow-up. In the provinces the two PPIUs will
provide the assistance required for a timely and adequate schedule of visits and contacts,
including remote project areas.
Duration and Expected Product
16.   The TAT will survey implementation's progress in the second, third and fourth years
of the project, and each survey is expected to be realized in a month. The TAT will provide
its report to the CPCU, the PPIUs and the World Bank for review and comments before
issuing a final document. The TAT will also ensure that implementation of recommendations
issued by CPCU or the Bank after analysis of the progress reports are actually implemented
in the following year. The first audit shall not start before 18 months after the project started.



136                                  Annex 18: Page 1 of 18
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Project
Project Components by Year
(US$'OOO)
Base Cost
96/97    97/98     98/99     99100     00101     01102     Total
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..     .    . ..g..g.....2. ...g
1. Increase Access to JSS.
a. New Schools                                -      257      3,143     6,809     2,577     1,147     13,933
b. AlterativeEquivalency Programs             -      236       460       686       463       240      2,084
c. Student Scholarships                       -     3,153     3,153     2,102     1,051        -      9,458
d. Social Marketing                           -       48        83        68        33        17        251
e. Contract Teachers                          -      370       370       370       370       370      1,850
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS                 -     4,064     7,209    10,035     4,494     1,773     27,575
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Training                           -      869       928      1,068      971       889      4,725
b. Tools for Effective Teaching               -    4,391     4,259     5,599     4,291     2,616     21,155
Subtobal Improve Quality                        -     5,260     5,187     6,667     5,261     3,605     25,880
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, 8 Monitoring     616       398       609       726       390        24      2,771
b. Secondary Education Info. System           -       16         0         0        11         -         28
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information        -       13         -         -        10         -         23
d. Information Technology Support             -      341        15        16        22         8        402
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management     616       768       625       742       442        32       3,225
4. Support ProJect Management
a. Provincial ProJect Management            26       173       173       173       173       173        888
Subtotal Central Java                          641    10,264    13,194    17,617    10,370      5,482     57,568
: 2g ................  ............  ,  . :    ....  ..   -:. '. ..: .
;m ~~~~~~..: ..  : .m  :.J...:....t ..    }.;  : .... .:  2nV.. .. 
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. New Schools                             164      1,699     1,712    1,879     2,059         -      7,503
b. Altemative Equivalency Programs            -       59       174       234       174        59        701
c. Student Scholarships                       -      300       300       200       100         -        899
d. Student & TeacherAccommodation             -     1,148     1,134    1,079     1,052         -      4,413
e. Social Marketing                           -        8        25        18         -         -         50
f. Contract Teachers                         -       185       185       185       185       185        925
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS              154       3,399    3,530    3,594     3,570       244     14,492
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Tralning                        103       119       119       119       101         -        560
b. Tools for Effective Teaching            363       888       834       782       864         -      3,730
c. Student Performance Assessment           23        23        23        23        23         -        116
Subtotal Improve Quality                     489      1,030      976       924       988         -      4,406
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring        -        6         1         1         6         -         14
b. Secondary Education Info. System           -        7         0         0         3         -         10
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information        -        3         -         -         2         -          5
d. Information Technology Support             -       79         2         2         5         2         91
e. School Management                       109       110       110       110       110         -        548
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management     109       205       113       113       125         2        668
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management            41       142       142       142       142       116        724
Subtotal Central Kavlmantan                    794      4,775     4,760     4,773     4,825      362      20,290
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. New Schools                             215      2,632     2,761    4,096     2,418         -     12,121
b. Altemative Equivalency Programs         126       243       360       243       130         -      1,102
c. Student Scholarships                       -      543       543       362       181         -      1,628
d. Student & Teacher Accommodation            -      258       243       159       118         -        777
e. Social Marketing                           -        8        25        18         -         -         s0
f. Contract Teachers                          -      185       185       185       185       185        925
Subtotal Increase Access toJSS               340      3,868     4,117     5,062     3,031      185      16,604



Annex 18: Page 2 of 18                                 137
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Project
Project Components by Year
(USS'OOO)
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Training                         428       993      1,029     1,051      831                 4,332
b. Tools for Effective Teaching               -       464       251        97        53          -        864
c. Student Performance Assessment            87        87        87        87        87          -       435
Subtotal Improve Quality                      515      1,544     1,367     1,235      971          -      5,631
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring        -         7         1         1         6          -         15
b. Secondary Education Info. System           -         7         0         0         3          -         11
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information        -         4          -         -        2          -          6
d. Information Technology Support             -        88         4         2         5         2         101
e. School Management                         60        64        66        72        68          -        330
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management       60       170        71        75        84          2        463
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management             72       157       157       157       157       142         840
Subtotal West Kalimantan                        987      5,738     5,712     6,529     4,243       329     23,537
* -    M..                      .......  ....
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. Social Marketing                           -         8        25        18                    -         50
b. Student Scholarships                       -       439       439       293       146         -       1,318
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS                 -       447       464       310       146          -      1,368
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Training                           -       501       539       547       544       543       2,674
b. Tools for Effective Teaching               -     1,997     3,802      3,926     3,879     3,442     17,046
c. Student Performance Assessment             -        11        12        12        12        12         58
d. Special Initiatives                        -       667       828       676       223       125       2,518
Subtotal Improve Quality                        -      3,176     5,180     5,161     4,657     4,121     22,295
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring        -         6         1         1         5          -        12
b. Secondary Education Info. System           -         7         0         0         2         -          9
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information        -         3         -         -         I          -         5
d. Information Technology Support             -        69         2         2         5         2         80
e. School Management                          -       121       104       138       138        92        593
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management        -       206       107       142       151        94         699
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management             26       157       157       157       157       157        811
Subtotal Yogyakarta                              26      3,986     5,909     5,770     5,111     4,372     25,174
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..        tR. . :   ..............................   ,..  .,.., , -
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. Social Marketing                                    70       100        30         -          -       200
2. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring        -        75        55        10        22         4        165
b. Secondary Education Info. System           -        98        60        60        80        60        356
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Infofmation        -        49         5         5        30         4         92
d. Information Technology Support             -       125         9        10        75         8        226
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management        -       346       128        84       206        74        839
3. Central Project Management Support         295       934       826       718       504       504       3,781
Subtotal Central Project Management Support     295      1,351     1,054      833       710       578       4,820
.5,.'v,.2 ,, ',    R      2,743    26,114    30,629    35,522    25,258    11,124    131,389
Physical Contingencies                          -         -         -         -          -         -          -
Price Contingencies                            53      1,626    3,951     6,658      6,707     3,765     22,760
.....            .-'.'."'.',' '.':  .... '  '  "' 'RR " 2,796  27,740  34,580  42,180  31,965  14,888  154,149
Taxes                                           5       958      1,325     2,096     1,469      612       6,465
Foreign Exchange                              427     6,472      7,704    10,302     7,251     3,801     35,957



138                            Annex 18: Page 3 of 18
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Year
(US$'000)
Base Cost                                Foreign Exchange
96/97    97198     98/99     99/00     00/01     01/02     Total       %     Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acqulstion                  369       626     1,197       678       120         -      2,990        -         -
B. Civil Works
New Construction                    -     6,593    10,054    15,896    10,526     2,754     46,822     30.0    13,747
Building Matis. for
Community Works                     -     1,406     1,377     1,238     1,170        -       6,191     10.0      519
Subtotal Civil Works                  -     8,000    11,431    17,133    11,695     2,754     51,013     28.0    14,266
C. Equipment & Fumiture              57     3,541     3,330     4,311     2,985     2,684     16,908     65.0    10,990
D. Educational Material /a          320     2,842     3,274     3,677     3,330     2,175     15,617     15.0     2,343
E. Human Development
In-country Training lb          1,289     3,332     3,570     3,880     3,244     1,538     16,853     15.0     2,528
Overseas Training                   -       405       541       405         -         -      1,351     95.0     1,284
Domestic Consultants              483       869       823       715       734      558       4,181     10.0      418
Intemational Consultants          108       437       304       196       216       98       1,357     80.0     1,086
Scholarships                        -     4,452     4,461     2,983     1,505       27      13,428        -
Subtotal Human Development        1,880     9,494     9,698     8,180     5,698     2,220     37,171     14.3     5,316
F. Contract Teachers                  -       740       740       740      740       740       3,700     10.0      370
G. Operational Costs Ic             117       871       959       803      690        651      3,990     10.0       399
Total BASELINE COSTS                 2,743    26,114    30,629    35,522    25,258    11,124    131,389     25.6    33,683
Physical Contingencies                -         -         -                   -         -          -                  -
Price Contingencies                  53     1,626     3,951     6,858     6,707     3,765     22,760     10.0     2,274
Total PROJECT COSTS                  2,796    27,740    34,580    42,180    31,965    14,888    154,149     23.3    35,957
Taxes                                 5       958     1,325     2,096     1,469       612      6,465
Foreign Exchange                    427     6,472     7,704    10,302     7,251     3,801     35,957
la Incl. Library suppiies,books,trg. modules & media materials
Xb Incl. in-country trg.,seminars & workshops
\c Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 18. Page 4 of 18                                         139
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Java - Project Components by Year
(US$OOO)
Base Cost
96197    97198     98199     99100     00101     01102     Tobl
A. Central Java
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. New Schools                                        -       257     3,143     6,809      2,577    1,147    13,933
b. Alternative Equivalency Programs                   -       236       460       686       483      240      2,084
c. Student Scholarships                               -     3,153     3,153     2,102      1,051        -     9,458
d. Social Marketing                                   -        48        83        68        33       17       251
e. Contract Teachers                                  -       370       370       370       370      370      1,850
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS                         -     4,064     7,209    10,035      4,494    1,773    27,675
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Training                                   -       869       928     1,068       971      U89      4,725
b. Tools for Effective Teaching                       -     4,391     4,259     5,599     4,291    2,616    21,155
Subtotal Improve Quality                                -     5,260     5,187      6,667     5,261    3,505    25,880
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring              616       398       609       726       398       24      2,771
b. Secondary Education Info. System                   -        16         0         0        11         -       28
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information                -        13         -         -        10         -       23
d. Information Technology Support                     -       341        15        16        22        8       402
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management              616       768       625       742       442       32      3,225
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management                     26       173       173       173       173      173       888
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    641    10,264    13,194    17,617    10,370    5,482    57,568
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                    12       701     1,805     3,301      2,826    1,834    10,479
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     654    10,965    14,999    20,918    13,196    7,316    68,048
Taxes                                                   1       355       565      1,142      615      312      2,989
Foreign Exchange                                       98     2,340     2,898     5,192      3,030    2,002    15,561



140                               Annex 18. Page 5 of 18
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Java - Expenditure Accounts by Year
(US$'OOO)
Base Cost                              Foreign Exchange
96197    97198     98/99     99/00     00/01    01/02     Total      %      Amount
I. Investment Costa
A.Land Acquistion                        -      257       686       257       120         -     1,321        -         -
B. Civil Works
New Con  truction                      -     1,678     4,170     8,363     4,071    1,132    19,414     30.0     5,824
C. Equipment & Fumiture                 7      2,076     1,635     2,645     1,685    1,648     9,495     65.0     6,172
D. Educational Marlal /a                 -     1,219     1,534     1,888     1,582    1,231     7,454     1.0      1,118
E. Human Development
In-country TraIning /b              584      1,280     1,519     1,777     1,377     889      7,426     15.0     1,114
Domstic Consulbnts                   50       130       127       112       112      112       641      10.0       64
Scholarships                           -     3,153     3,153     2,102     1,051       -      9,458       -         -
Subtotal Human Development            634      4,562     4,798     3,990     2,539    1,001    17,524      6.7     1,178
F. Contract Tach                         -      370       370       370       370      370      1,850     10.0      185
G.OperationalCosts/c                     -      102       100       103       103      101       509      10.0       51
Total BASEUNE COSTS                      641    10,264    13,194    17,617    10,370    5,482    57,568     26.2    14,528
Physical Contingencies                        -         -                       -         -
Price Contingencl                     12       701      1,805     3,301     2,826    1,834    10,479     9.9      1,033
Total PROJECT COSTS                      654    10,965    14,999    20,918    13,196    7,316    68,048     22.9    15,561
Taxes                                   1       35        565      1,142      615      312      2,989       -
Foreign Exchange                       98      2,340     2,898     5,192     3,030    2,002    15,561
\a Incl. Llbrary supplies,books,trg. modules & media materials
lb Incl. in-country trg.,seminars & workshops
\c Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Educaion Project
Central Java - Expenditure Accounts by Components
(USSO00)
Central Java
Increase Access to JSS                Improve Quality           Strengthen Educaton Management   Support Project
Management
Second. School to
Altemative       Student &                  Tools for Student     Forecast. Educ. Kandep/  Info.          Prov. Central
New  Equival. Student Teacher Social Contr. Teach Effect Perfor. Special Plan., &  Info.  Kanwil  Tech. School Project Project
Schools Pgrm. Scholshp Accom. Mkting Teach. Tmg. Teach. Assess.  nit.  Monitor. Sys.   Info.  Support Mgmt. Mgmt. MgmL  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acqulstion          1,321      -       -        -                                                                -       -      -      -     -  1,321
B. Civil Work.
New Construction         12,453           -       -                 -    -  6,961                       -      -        -      -                      19,414
C. Equipment & Fumiture      159       -       -        -     -      -    -  9,034                       7      1             294       -      -     -  9,495
D. Educational Material la     -  2,008                 -  221       -    -  5,161               -       0      0        0     63          -         -  7,464
E. Human Development
In-country Training lb                                 -     -      - 4,725      -              -   2,616     22       22     42      -      -      -  7,426
Domestic Consultants          -       -                -   30       -    -       -          -         144      -        1      3      -   463       -   641
Scholarships                  -           9,458        -     -      -    -       -                  -       -       -          -      -      -         9468
Subtotal Hunan Development     -       -   9,458        -   30       - 4,725      -       -      -   2,760     22       22     45       -   463      - 17,824
F. Contract Teachers           -       -       -        -     -  1,860     -      -              -       -      -        -             -      -      -  1,850       I
G. OperatonalCost Ic           -     76        -        - _          -    -       -       -      -       4      4                -      -   425      -   509        O'
Total BASELINE COSTS        13,933   2,084   9,48        -  251  1,860 4,725  21,155               -   2,771     28      23    402       -   888       - 57,568
Physical Contingencies         -       -       -        -     -      -        -       -       -          -      -        -       -      -     -      -      -
Price Contingencies        2,181    637    1,880        -   54   495 1,221   3,368              8-       0      5        5     31           231        10,479
Total PROJECT COSTS         16,115  2,620   11,338       -  305  2,348 5,946  24,513       -           3,252     33      28    433       -  1,120      - 68,048
Taxes                       1,322      -       -        -     -      -    -  1,638                       1      0        -     28       -     -      -  2,989
Forelgn Exchange           4,139    331        -        -   38   199  761   9,342                      432      6        4    214       -    96        16,561
la ncl. Library supplbes,bookc,trg. modules & medba materials
\b ncl. In-country trg.,seminars & workshops
kc Incl. expenditures for travel,per dlem, honorarla & consummables



142                                Annex 18: Page 7 of 18
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Yogyakarta - Project Components by Year
(US$-000)
Base Cost
96197   97/98   98199   99100   00/01    01102    Total
A. Yogyakarta
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. Social Marketing                                       8      25       18        -       -       50
b. Student Scholarships                           -    439      439      293     146        -    1,318
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS                     -    447      464      310     146        -    1,368
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Training                               -     501     539      547     544      543     2,674
b. Tools for Effective Teaching                   -   1,997   3,802   3,926   3,879   3,442    17,045
c. Student Performance Assessment                 -      11      12       12      12       12       58
d. Special Initiatives                            -    667      828      676     223      125    2,518
Subtotal Improve Quality                            -   3,176    5,180    5,161    4,657   4,121    22,295
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring            -       6       1        1       5        -       12
b. Secondary Education Info. System               -       7       0        0       2        -        9
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information            -       3        -       -       I        -        5
d. Information Technology Support                 -      69       2        2       5        2       80
e. School Management                              -    121      104      138     138       92      593
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management            -     206     107      142     151       94      699
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management                 26     157     157      157     157      157      811
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 26   3,986   5,909   5,770   5,111    4,372    25,174
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                 1     244     675   1,026    1,290    1,371     4,607
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  26   4,229   6,584   6,796   6,401    5,743    29,780
Taxes                                               .     115     294      321     331      294     1,355
Foreign Exchange                                    3   1,411    2,354   2,296   1,886    1,620     9,570



Annex 18: Page 8 of 18                                   143
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Yogyakarta - Expenditure Accounts by Year
(USS'OOO)
Base Cost                              Foreign Exchange
96197    97/98    98199    99100    00101    01102    Total      %       Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
New Construction                        -      579    1,731    1,911    1,911    1,622     7,754      30.0     2,326
B. Equipment & Fumiture                   -      638    1,238    1,182    1,136      988     5,180      65.0     3,367
C. Educatlonal Material /a                -      844      862      852      835      834     4,217      15.0       632
D. Human Development
In-country Training b                   -      695      720      746      702      647     3,510      15.0       527
Overseas Training                       -      405      541      405        -        -     1,351      95.0      1,284
Domestic Consultants                   26       82       80       72       72       72       404      10.0        40
Intemational Consultants                -      196      196     196       196       98       880      80.0       704
Scholarshlps                                   457      466      320      173       27     1,443         -         -
Subtotal Human Development               26    1,834    2,002    1,739    1,144      644     7,589      33.7      2,555
E. Operational Costs /c                   -       90       86       86       86       8S       434      10.0        43
Total BASEUNE COSTS                         26    3,986    5,909    5,770    5,111    4,372    25,174      35.4     8,924
Physical Contingencies                         -        -        -        -        -             -         -         -
Price Contingencies                       1      244      675    1,026    1,290    1,371     4,607      14.0       646
Total PROJECT COSTS                         26    4,229    6,584    6,796    8,401    5,743    29,780      32.1     9,570
Taxes                                     -      115      294      321      331      294     1,3S5         -         -
Foreign Exchange                          3    1,411    2,354    2,296    1,886    1,620     9,570
a Incl. Library supplles,books,trg. modules & media materials
lb Incl. In-country trg.,seminars & workshops
\c Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Yogyakarta - Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$'000)
Yogyakarta
Support
Increase               Improve Quality                 Strengthen Education Management        Project
Access to JSS                                                                                    Mgmt
Second. School to
Tools for Student         Forecast, Educ.   Kandep/   Info.               Prov.
Social  Student  Teach.  Effect.  Perform. Special  Plan., &    Info.    Kanwil   Tech.  School   Project
Mkting. Schoishp. Trng.  Teach.  Assess.   Init.   Monitor.  Sys.    Info.   Support Mgmt.   Mgmt.    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
New Construction                   -        *            7,754        .        .        .       .          .                               7754
B. Equipment & Fumiture             -         -      -    5,121        -                  -       I         -      57        *          -   5,180     2
C. Educational Material /a         35         -      -    4,169        -        -        0        0         0       12       *              4,217      Z
D. Hunan Development
In-country Training /b             -         -  2,674        -       58     161         8       4         4        8     593          *   3,510      o
Overseas Training                  -         -      -        *        *   1,351         *        *         *                          -   1,351
Domestc Consultants              15         -       -        -                 -        -       -          -       3       *        386     404
Intemational Consultants           -         -      -        -        -     880         -       -          -               -          -    880
Scholarships                   _         1,318               .        .     125         -        *         -       -        *         .   1,443      '
Subtotal Humnan Development        15     1,318   2,674        -      58    2,518        8       4          4      11      593       386   7,689
E. Operational Costs /c          _            -      -         -       -        -        4       4          1        -       *       425      434
Total BASELINE COSTS                50      1,318   2,674   17,045      58    2,518       12       9         5       80     593        811  25,174
Physical Contingencies                                                  -        -             -                -
Price Contingencies                 9       262    695    3,019       15      235        3        1         1       6      150       211   4,607
Total PROJECT COSTS                  59     1,580   3,369   20,064      73    2,753       15      11          5      86     744       1,022  29,780
Taxes                                                      1,349                                  0                 5                   -   1,3U5
Foreign Exchange                    7         -   431    6,770         9    2,124        2       2          1      42      95         87   9,570
\a ncl. Library supplies,books,trg. modules & medi materials
lb Incl. In-country trg.,emnars & workshops
kc Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honorria & consummabbs



Annex 18: Page 10 of 18
145
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Kalimantan - Project Components by Year
(USS'OOO)
Base Cost
96197    97198    98199    99/00    00/01    01/02     Total
A. Central Kalimantan
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. New Schools                                      154    1,699    1,712    1,879    2,059        -      7,503
b. Altemative Equivalency Programs                    -       59      174      234      174       59       701
c. Student Scholarships                               -      300      300      200      100        -       899
d. Student & Teacher Accommodation                    -    1,148    1,134    1,079    1,052        -      4,413
e. Social Marketing                                   -        8       25       18        -        -        50
f. Contract Teachers                                  -      185      185      185      185      185       925
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS                       154    3,399    3,530    3,594    3,570      244    14,492
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Training                                 103      119      119      119      101         -      560
b. Tools for Effective Teaching                     363      888      834      782      864        -      3,730
c. Student Performance Assessment                    23       23       23       23       23        -       116
Subtotal Improve Quality                              489    1,030      976      924      988         -     4,406
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring                -        6        1        1        6        -        14
b. Secondary Education Info. System                   -        7        0        0        3        -        10
c. School to KandeplKanwil information                -        3        -        -        2        -         5
d. Information Technology Support                     -       79        2        2        5        2        91
e. School Management                                109      110      110      110      110        -       548
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management              109      205      113      113      125        2       668
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management                     41      142      142      142      142      116       724
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     794    4,775    4,760    4,773    4,825      362    20,290
Physical Contingencies
Price ConUngencies                                     15      262      584      921    1,232      162      3,177
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      809    5,037    5,344    5,695    6,057      525    23,467
Taxes                                                   4      181      178      195      247        0       804
Foreign Exchange                                      115      953      929      979    1,131       44      4,151



146                              Annex 18: Page 11 of 18
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Kalimantan - Expenditure Accounts by Year
(US$'OOO)
Base Cost                              Foreign Exchange
96/97    97198    98199    99/00    00101    01102    Total       %      Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquistion                      154      154      167      206        -        -       682          -         -
B. Civil Works
New Construction                        -    1,700    1,686    1,740    2,126        -     7,222       30.0     2,167
Building Matis. for
Community Works                         -    1,148    1,134    1,079    1,052        -     4,413      10.0       441
Subtotal Civil Works                      -    2,849    2,790    2,819    3,178        -    11,636       22.4     2,608
C. Equipment & Fumfture                  43      212      140      135      139        1       670       65.0      435
D. Educational Material la              320      649      769      822      828       56      3,444      15.0      517
E. Human Development
In-country Training /b                218      249      236      236      229        1     1,168       15.0      175
Domestc Consultants                    58       83       81       73       73       31       400       10.0       40
Scholarships                            -      300      300      200      100        -       899         -          -
Subtotal Human Development              276      632      616      609      402       32     2,467        8.7      215
F. Contract Teachers                      -      185      186      185      185      185       925       10.0       93
G. Operational Costs /c                   -       94       93       97       93       89       466       10.0       47
Total BASELINE COSTS                       794    4,775    4,760    4,773    4,825     362    20,290       19.3     3,914
Physical Contingencies                    -        -        -        -        -        -         -          -         -
Price Contingencies                      15      262      584      921    1,232      162     3,177        7.5      237
Total PROJECT COSTS                        809    5,037    5,344    5,695    6,057      525    23,467      17.7     4,151
Taxes                                     4      181      178      195      247        0       804          -
Foreign Exchange                        115      953      929      979    1,131       44     4,151
la Incl. Library supplies,books,trg. modules & media materials
lb Incl. In-country trg.,seminars & workshops
\c Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Kalimantan - Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$-000)
Central Kalimantan
Increase Access to JSS             Improve Quality        Strengthen Education Management   Support Project
Management
Second. School to
Alternative      Student &                   Tools for Student Forecast. Educ. Kandep/  Info.        Prov. Central
New   Equiv. Student Teacher Social Contr. Teach. Effect  Perfor. Plan., &  Info.  Kanwil  Tech. School Project Project
Schools Prgms. Scholshp Accom. Mkting. Teach. Trng. Teach. Assess. Monitor. Sys.   Info.  Support Mgmt. Mgmt Mgmt. Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquistion            682       -        -       -      -      -    -        -      -       -       -        -                                682
B. Civil Works
New Construction           6,821      -        -        -     -      -    -    401         -       -      -        -       -      -      -      -  7,222
Building Matis. for
Community Works               *       -        .   4,413   _         -    -        -      -        -      -        -      -      -      -       -  4,413
Subtotal Civil Works        6,821       -            4,413      .           .    401        .                                                    - 11,636
C. Equipment & Fumiture         -       -       -        -      -      -    -    603                -      1        -      65      .                  670
D. Educational Material /a      -    669        -        -    35       -    -   2,726               0      0        0      14      -      -      -  3,444
E. Human Development
In-country Training lb         -       -       -        -     -      -  560        -       -      10      4        4      9    548      32      -  1,168
Domestic Consultants           *      -                 -    1S      -    -        -    116        -      -        -      3       -   266       -   400
Scholarships                   -       -     899        -      -      -    -       -       -       -      -        -       -      -      -      -   899
Subtotal Human Development      -       -     899            '15       -  560        -     116     10      4        4      12   548    299           2,467
F. Contract Teachers            -       -       -        -      -   925      -      -       -       -      -        -       -      -      -      -   925
G. Operatlonal Costs /c         -     32        -        -      -      -    -       -       -       4      4        1              -   425            466
Total BASEUNE COSTS           7,503    701      899    4,413    S0   925  560   3,730    116        14      10        5     91   548    724        - 20,290
Physical Contingencies                                                                                              -      -           -      -
Price Contingencies           942    181      179      585     9   248   97    629         21       3      2        1       7     96    179      -  3,177
Total PROJECT COSTS           8,446    882    1,078    4,998    59  1,173  657   4,360    137        16     12        6     98   644    902        - 23,467
Taxes                         697       -       -        -      -      -    -    101        -       -      0        -       6      -      -      -   804
Foreign Exchange            2,176    111        -      467     7    99   88    973         12       2      2        1     47      86     79         4,151
i Incl. Library supplies,booke,trg. modules & media materials
\b Incl. In-country trg.,seminars & workshops
%c Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



148                               Annex 18: Page 13 of 18
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
West Kalimantan - Project Components by Year
(US$'OOO)
Base Cost
96/97   97/98   98/99    99/00   00/01    01102    Total
A. West Kalimantan
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. New Schools                                  215    2,632   2,761    4,096    2,418       -   12,121
b. Altemative Equivalency Programs              126      243     360      243     130        -    1,102
c. Student Scholarships                            -     643     543      362     181        -    1,628
d. Student & Teacher Accommodation                 -     258     243      159     118        -      777
e. Social Marketing                                -       8      25       18        -       -       50
f. Contract Teachers                               -     185     185      185     185      185      925
Subtotal Increase Access to JSS                   340   3,868   4,117    5,062   3,031       185    16,604
2. Improve Quality
a. Teacher Training                             428      993    1,029    1,051    831        -    4,332
b. Tools for Effective Teaching                    -    464      251       97      53        -      864
c. Student Performance Assessment                87       87      87       87      87        -      435
Subtotal Improve Quality                          615    1,544    1,367    1,235    971        -    5,631
3. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring             -       7       1        1       6        -       15
b. Secondary Education Info. System                -       7       0       0        3        -       11
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Infonmation             -       4       -        -       2        -        6
d. Information Technology Support                  -      88       4        2       5        2      101
e. School Management                             60       64      66       72      68        -      330
Subtotal Strengthen Educatlon Management           60      170      71       75      84        2      463
4. Support Project Management
a. Provincial Project Management                 72      157     157      157     157      142      840
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 987    5,738    5,712    6,529    4,243   329    23,537
Physical Contingencies                               -       -       -        -                -         -
Price Contingencies                                20      332     741    1,223    1,117     148     3,581
Total PROJECT COSTS                                1,007    6,070   6,452    7,752    5,360    477    27,119
Taxes                                                -     277     263     412      269        0     1,220
Foreign Exchange                                  102    1,268   1,178    1,586    1,059      38     5,232



Annex 18: Page 14 of 18                                     149
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
West Kalimantan - Expenditure Accounts by Year
(US$'OOO)
Base Cost                               Foreign Exchange
96/97    97/98    98/99    99100    00101    01/02     Total       %      Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquistion                       215      215      343      215         -        -       987         -
B. Civil Works
New Construction                         -    2,636    2,497    3,881    2,418        -    11,432       30.0     3,429
Building Matis. for
Community Works                         -      258      243      159      118         -       777       10.0       78
Subtotal Clvil Works                            2,894    2,740    4,040    2,536         -    12,209      28.7      3,507
C. Equipment & Fumiture                    -      294      158       89       49        1        590      65.0       384
D. Educational Material /a                 -       34       34       27        7        0        102      15.0        15
E. Human Development
In-country Training/b                 486    1,071    1,095    1,122       909        1      4,683      15.0       702
Domestic Consultants                   170      180      178      170      173       57       927       10.0        93
Scholarhips                              -     543       543      362      181        -      1,628         *         -
Subtotal Human Development               656    1,793    1,815    1,654    1,263       57      7,238      11.0       795
F. Contract Teachem                        -      185      185      185      185      185       925       10.0        93
G. Operational Costs /c                  117      324      437      320      203       85      1,486      10.0       149
Total BASELINE COSTS                       987    5,738    5,712    6,529    4,243       329    23,537       21.0     4,942
Physical Contingencies                                                     -         -         -
Price Contingencies                       20      332      741    1,223    1,117      148      3,581       8.1       289
Total PROJECT COSTS                       1,007    6,070    6,452    7,752    5,360      477    27,119       19.3     5,232
Taxes                                      -      277      263      412      269        0      1,220         -         -
Foreign Exchange                         102    1,268    1,178    1,586    1,059       38      5,232
VA Incl. Library supplies,books,trg. modules & media materials
%b Incl. In-country trg.,seminars & workshops
\c Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
West Kalimantan - Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$-000)
West Kalimantan
Support
Increase Access to JSS              Improve Quality         Strengthen Education Management    Project
Mgmt
Second. School to
Alternative      Student &                    Tools for Student Forecast. Educ. Kandep/  Info.         Prov.
New   Equiv. Student Teacher Social Contr. Teach. Effect Perform. Plan., &  Info.  Kanwil  Tech. School Project
Schools Pgr. SchoIshp Accom. Mkting. Teach. Tmg. Teach. Assess. Monitor. Sys.   Info.  Support   MgmtMgm   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquistion            987                         -     -      -      -       -       -       -      -        -       -      -           987
B. Civil Works
New Construction          11,134       -       -        -      -      -     -    297        -        -      -        -       -      -      - 11,432
Building Matis. for
Comrnunity Works              -       -        -     777      -      -      .       -               .      .        .       .      .           777 
Subtotal Civil Works       11,134       -        *     777      -      -      -    297        -       -      -        -       -      -      * 12,209
C. Equipment & Fumiture         -       -                 -     -      -      -    516        -       -      i        -      73      -      *   590
D. Educational Material la      -       -        -        -    35      -      -     51       -       0       0        0      15      -      *   102       co
E. Human Development
In-country Training lb         -       -       -        -      -      - 4,332        -      -      11      5        5      11    283     38  4,683    0
Domestic Consultants           -     50                       s 15    -      -       -    435        -      -        -      3    47    377    927
Scholarships                   -       -   1,628        -      -      -      -       -      -        -      -        -       -      -      *  1,628     ,
Subtotal Human Development      -     50    1,628         -    15      - 4,332        -    435      11       5        5     13    330    415  7,238    i,
F. Contract Teachers            .       .       .               -   925       -                                                                  925 
G. Operational Costs ic         -  1,052         -        -     -      -      -       -       -      4       4        1       -      -   425  1,486      00
Total BASELINE COSTS         12,121   1.102    1,628     777    50    925  4,332     864    435       15     11        6    101    330    840 23,537
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies         1,475    196      324       89      9    248   817      67      79       3       2        1      8      60    204  3,581
Total PROJECTCOSTS           13,596   1,299    1,952     866    59  1,173  5,148     932    514       18     12        7    109    390  1,044 27,119
Taxes                       1,134                                                   79                       0               7              *  1,220
Foreign Exchange            3,547    116         -      82      7     99   685    451       46       2       2        1     53      50     92  5,232
ba Incl. Library supplles,books,trg. modules & media materials
lb Incl. in-country trg.,seminars & workshops
kc Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 18: Page 16 of 18                                 151
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Project Management - Project Components by Year
(US$'OOO)
Base Cost
96197   97/98   98199   99100   00/01    01/02    Total
A. Central Project Management Support
1. Increase Access to JSS
a. Social Marketing                                -      70     100       30        -             200
2. Strengthen Education Management
a. Forecasting, Planning, & Monitoring             -      75      55       10      22        4     165
b. Secondary Education Info. System                -      98      60       60      80       60     356
c. School to Kandep/Kanwil Information             -      49       5        5      30        4      92
d. Information Technology Support                  -     125       9       10      75        8     226
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management             -     346     128       84     206       74     839
3. Central Project Management Support             295      934     826      718     504      504   3,781
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 295    1,351    1,054    833      710     578    4.820
Physical Contingencies                                                                 -       -        -
Price Contingencies                                 5       87     147      186     242      250     916
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  300   1,438    1,201    1,018     952     828    5,736
Taxes                                               1       30      26       27       8        5      97
Foreign Exchange                                  110      499     344      248     146       96    1,443



152                              Annex 18: Page 17 of 18
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Project Management - Expenditure Accounts by Year
(USS'OOO)
Bass Cost                             Foreign Exchange
96/97    97198    98/99    99100    00101    01102    Total      %      Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment & Furniture                  7      321      260      261       77       46      972       65.0      632
B. Educational Material la                -       95       86       87       78       64      401       15.0       60
C. Human Development
In-country Training lb                  -       39                 -       28        -       66      15.0        10
Domestic Consultants                  180      394      358      288      303      287    1,810      10.0       181
International Consultants             108      241      108        -       20        -      477      80.0       382
Subtotal Human Development              288      673      466      288      351      287    2,353       24.3      572
D. Operational Costs /c                   -      261      242      197      204      191    1,094       10.0      109
Total BASELINE COSTS                       295    1,351    1,054     833      710      578    4,820       28.5     1,374
Physical Contingencies                    -        -        -        -                      -             -          -
Price Contingencies                       5       87      147      186      242      250      916       7.5        69
Total PROJECT COSTS                        300    1,438    1,201    1,018     952      828    5,736       25.2     1,443
Taxes                                     1       30       26       27        8        5       97         -
Foreign Exchange                        110      499      344      248      146       96    1,443
%a Incl. Library supplies,books,trg. modules & media materials
lb Incl. in-country trg.,seminars & workshops
\c Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Project Management - Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$S000)
Central Project Management Support
Increase
Access to                  Strengthen Education Management
JSS
Secondary    School to                               Central
Forecasting,  Education    Kandep/      Information               Project
Social    Planning, &     Info.       Kanwil      Technology    School   Management
Marketing   Monitoring    System     Information     Support   Management  Support    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Equipment & Fumiture                                   -         18              -           90           -         865      972
B. Educational Material /a                60              8        264              4           74           -           -      401
C. Human Development
In-country Training lb                    -           10         10              10           37           -           -       66
Domestic Consultants                   140              -          -             48           27           -        1,596    1,810
Intemational Consultants                              15           -             30            -           -         432      477
Subtotal Human Development               140             25         10             87           63           -        2,028    2,353
D. Operational Costs Ic                     -           132        74               -            -           -         888    1,094
Total BASELINE COSTS                        200           165        356             92           226           -       3,781    4,820
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                       30            26         86              15           36           -         723      916
Total PROJECT COSTS                         230           191        442            106           262           -       4,504    5,736
Taxes                                                     -          2              -            9           -          86       97
Foreign Exchange                          24            29         63              33           82           -       1,213    1,443
a Incl. Library suppiles,books,trg. modules & media materials
lb Incl. In-country trg.,seminars & workshops
c Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Proposed Technical Assistance
Status of TOR (Date)          Short List (Date)     Standard    Responsibility
Type of TA Activity         PurposelObjectives       Implementing  Total Cost       Person                                                            contract    for supervision
Agency      (USS'000)       mouth                                                             prepared
Prepared    Expected      Prepered   Expected   (Y/N) /a       RSI       HQ
A.  Institutional Capacity
Building
1. Special initiatives         Introduce and evaluate new       Ksnwil           880            54 (1)                    09/96                     TBD          Y                    X
educational initiatives         (Vogys)
2.  Management training:       Improve pianning and             Kmnwils          154            72 (L)                    09/96                     TBD          v                    X
needs assesment,           managenst capacity at
prognm/meterial            Kanwil, Kandep and shool
preparation               levels                                                                                                                                                                h
3. lformation mansgement    Strengthen analytical              Kanwils           39            11 (L)*   03/96(D)                                  TBD          v          X         X            ;
and atilitioe              capacity of masnagement                                                                                                                                             :S
4.  Development of provincial   Improvestudents'                Kanwils          551           245 (L)*                   09/96                     TBD          Y                    X
exam system sand student   acbievements through
performancsnerament        improved teaching 
B. Implementstion Support
I Open JSE feasibility study    Improve open JSE program      Kanwib            S0             18 (L)*                  09/96                      TBD          y          X
2 Management consulants      Asist Kanwil/Ksndep in           Kanwils          S94            552 (L)                   09/96                      TBD          Y          X
project implementation
and administration
Assist Central MOEC in          Central         1,081           360 (L)                   09/96                      TBD          Y                    X
overall project management      (MOEC)           432             24 (1)                   09/96
3 Monitoring, supervision    Assist Kanwils in monitoring      Kanwil          59S            268 (L)                   09/96                      TED          Y          X
and evaluation             and evaluation
Assist Central MOEC in          Central          515            120 (L)                   09/96                      TBD          y                    x
overll project monitoring       (MOEC)
and evaluation
Total                               5,194 lb       1,724
/a Standard contract form is available at RSL
/b Baseline cost.
* These person-month figures are indicative only.
NOTE:  - International consultants; L = Local consultants.



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Java Province
Procurement Plan
Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Contract
Total    Estimated                                              Bank       Documents
Value     Contract   DIP/INPRES   Procurement       Kind of     Review     required for
No.  Category                                       (USS M)   Quantity    Allocation       Method         Review        By      Disbursement
I.  Land Acquisition                                 1.6        N/A         Kanwil     N/A           N/A             N/A          N/A
2.  Civil Works
Small contract <$50,000                          9.6        318        Kanwil    Shopping        Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium contract >'50,000                        12.5        77         Kanwil      NCB           Random Post    RSI           SOE
Large ccontract >$500,000 (none)                                         N/A       N/A           N/A             N/A          N/A
Self Help Construction                           0           0           N/A       N/A           N/A             N/A          N/A
First contract >S100,000                                  60/20       Kanwil      Kanwil        Prior          Consa         SOE
3.  Equipment/ and Fumiture
Small package <$50,000                           1.7        95         Kanwil    Shopping        Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium package >S50,000 - <$200-,000             1.0         8         Kanwil      NCB           Random Post    RSI           SOE
Specific and large package >S200,000             8.0         6         Kanwil    ICB             Prior           TM           Full
First contract >S50,000                                      1         Kanwil    TBD             Prior           RSI          Full
4   Educational Materials/Books
Small package <$50,000                           3.0        40         Kanwil    Shopping        Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium package >S50,000 - <'200,000                                    Kanwil      NCB           Random Post    RSI           SOE
Books (about S200,000)                           6.4        50         Kanwil    Shopping        Random Post    RSI           SOE
Specific and large package >S200,000                                   Kanwil    ICB             Prior           TM           Full
First contract >S50,000                                      1         Kanwil    TBD             Prior           RSI          Full
5.  In-country Training                              9.1        n/a         Kanwil     Other         Random Post   SPN            SOE
6.  Overseas Training                                0.0        n/a          N/A       N/A           N/A             N/A          N/A
7.  Consultancy Service & Studies - Domestic Cons.
Firm <$100,000                                   0.2         2         Kanwil    Short Listing  Limited Prior    RSI          SOE
Individual <350,000                             0.6         10         Kanwil      Other         Limited Prior    RSI         SOE
Others                                                                Dikmenum    Short Listing  Prior           TM           Full
8.  Scholarships                                     11.3       n/a         Kanwil     Other         Random Post   SPN            SOE
9.  Contract Teachers                                2.3        n/a         Kanwil     Other         Random Post   SPN            SOE
10.  Operational Costs                                0.6        n/a         Kanwil     Other         Random Post   SPN            SOE                                           5;
u'
a / A project-financed consultant would review about 60 contracts of which RSI would review about 20.



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Yogyakarta Province
Procurement Plan
Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Contract
Total    Estimated                                            Bank       Documents
Value    Contract   DIP/INPRES   Procurement    Kind of    Review    required for
No.  Category                                      (USS M)   Quantity    Allocation     Method        Review        By      Disbursement
1.  Civil Works
Small contract <$50,000                        9.0        250        Kanwil    Shopping       Random Post    RSI          SOE
Medium contract >$50,000                                             Kanwil    NCB            Random Post    RSI          SOE
Large ccontract >S500,000 (none)                                      N/A       N/A           N/A            N/A          N/A
Self Help Construction                          0          0          N/A       N/A           N/A            N/A          N/A
First contract >$100,000                                 20/8        Kanwil    Kanwil         Prior         Consa         SOE
2.  Equipment/ and Fumiture                                                                                                                                                 t
Small package <$50,000                         1.9        30         Kanwil    Shopping       Random Post    RSI          SOE
Medium package >$50,000 - <$200,000            2.0        10         Kanwil    NCB            Random Post    RSI          SOE
Specific and large package >$200,000           2.0         5         Kanwil    ICB            Prior          TM           Full
First contract >$50,000                                    I         Kanwil    TBD            Prior          RSI          Full
3.  Educational Materials/Books
Small package <$50,000                         0.7        30         Kanwil    Shopping       Random Post    RSI          SOE
Medium package >S50,000 - <$200,000                                  Kanwil    NCB            Random Post    RSI          SOE
Books (about $200,000)                         4.6        40         Kanwil    Shopping       Random Post    RSI          SOE
Specific and large package >S200,000                                 Kanwil    ICB            Prior          TM           Full
First contract >S50,000                                    I         Kanwil    TBD            Prior          RSI          Full
4.  In-country Training                            4.4        N/A        Kanwil    Other          Random Post   SPN           SOE
5.  Overseas Training                              1.4         12       Dikmenum    Other         Limited Prior    TM         SOE
6.  Consultancy Service & Studies
Firm <$100,000                                 0.5         2         Kanwil    Short Listing  Limited Prior    RSI        SOE
Individual <$50,000                            1.0        40         Kanwil    Other          Limited Prior    RSI        SOE
Others                                                             Dikmenum    Short Listing  Prior          TM           Full
7.  Scholarships                                   1.7        N/A        Kanwil    Other          Random Post   SPN           SOE
8.  Operational Costs                              0.5        n/a        Kanwil    Other          Random Post   SPN           SOE
a/ A project-financed consultant would review about 20 contracts of which RSI would review about 8.



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Kalimantan Province
Procurement Plan
Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Contract
Total    Estimated                                               Bank       Documents
Value     Contract   DIP/INPRES   Procurement       Kind of     Review      required for
No.  Category                                        (US$ M)   Quantity      Allocation     Method         Review        By       Disbursement
I.  Land Acquisition                                 0.8        N/A         Kanwil      N/A           N/A             N/A           N/A
2.  Civil Works
Small contract <S50,000                          0.6         18         Kanwil      Shopping      Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium contract >$50,000                         7.5         53         Kanwil      NCB           Random Post    RSI           SOE
Large ccontract >S500,000 (none)                                         N/A        N/A           N/A             N/A          N/A
Self Help Construction Materials                 5.0        200         Kanwil      Community    Random Post    RSI            SOE
First contract >S100,000                                    20/8        Kanwil      Kanwil        Prior          Consa         SOEX
3.  Equipment/ and Fumiture
Small package <$50,000                           0.7         20         Kanwil      Shopping      Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium package >S50,000 - <$200,000                                     Kanwil      NCB           Random Post    RSI           SOE                                               Z
Specific and large package >S200,000                         0          Kanwil    ICB             Prior           TM           Full
First contract >$50,000                                      1          Kanwil      TBD           Prior           RSI           Full
4.  Educational Materials/Books                                                                                                                                                      0
Small package <$50,000                           2.1         28         Kanwil      Shopping      Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium package >S50,000 - <S200,000                                     Kanwil      NCB           Random Post    RSI           SOE
Books (about $200,000)                           2.1         20         Kanwil      Shopping      Random Post    RSI           SOE
Specific and large package >$200,000                                    Kanwil    ICB             Prior           TM           Full
First contract >$50,000                                      1          Kanwil      TBD           Prior           RSI          Full
5.  In-country Training                               1.4       N/A         Kanwil      Other         Random Post    SPN           SOE
6.  Overseas Training                                0.0        N/A           N/A       N/A           N/A             N/A           N/A
7.  Consultancy Service & Studies
Firm <$100,000                                  0.0         0          Kanwil    Short Listing  Limited Prior    RSI          SOE
Individual <$50,000                              0.5         30         Kanwil      Other         Limited Prior    RSI         SOE
Others                                                                Dikmenum    Short Listing   Prior           TM           Full
8.  Scholarships                                      1.1       N/A         Kanwil      Other         Random Post    SPN           SOE
9.  Contract Teachers                                 1.2       N/A         Kanwil      Other         Random Post    SPN           SOE
10.  Operational Costs                                0.6        N/A         Kanwil      Other         Random Post    SPN           SOE
/ A project-ftnanced consultant would review about 20 contracts of which RSI would review about 8.



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
West Kalimantan Province
Procurement Plan
Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Contract
Total    Estimated                                               Bank       Documents
Value     Contract   DIP/INPRES   Procurement       Kind of     Review      required for
No.  Category                                       (USS M)   Quantity       Allocation     Method         Review        By      Disbursement
I .  Land Acquisition                                 I I       N/A         Kanwil      N/A           N/A             N/A           N/A
2.  Civil Works
Small contract <$50,000                          0.5         15         Kanwil      Shopping      Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium contract >S50,000                         12.3        70         Kanwil      NCB           Random Post    RSI           SOE
Large ccontract >S500,000 (none)                                         N/A        N/A           N/A             N/A          N/A
Self Help Construction                           0.9         54         Kanwil      Community    Randon Post    RSI            SOE                                                s
First contract >$I00,000                                    20/8        Kanwil      Kanwil        Prior          Consa         SOE
3.  Equipment/ and Furniture
Small package <$50,000                           0.5         20         Kanwil      Shopping      Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium package >S50,000 - <$200,000              0.2          I         Kanwil      NCB           Random Post    RSI           SOE
Specific and large package >$200,000             0.0         0          Kanwil    ICB             Prior           TM           Full
First contract >$50,000                                      I          Kanwil      TBD           Prior           RSI          Full
4.  Educational Materials/Books
Small package <$50,000                          0.02         5          Kanwil    Shopping        Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium package >$50,000 - <$200,000                                     Kanwil      NCB           Random Post    RSI           SOE
Books (about $200,000)                           0.1         20         Kanwil    Shopping        Random Post    RSI           SOE
Specific and large package >$200,000                                    Kanwil    ICB             Prior           TM           Full
First contract >$50,000                                      I          Kanwil      TBD           Prior           RSI          Full
5.  In-country Training                              5.6        N/A         Kanwil      Other         Random Post    SPN           SOE
6.  Overseas Training                                0.0        N/A           N/A       N/A           N/A             N/A           N/A
7.  Consultancy Service & Studies - Domestic Cons.
Firm <$100,000                                   0.2         2          Kanwil    Short Listing  Limited Prior    RSI          SOE
Individual <$50,000                              0.9         40         Kanwil      Other         Limited Prior    RSI         SOE
Others                                                                Dikmenum    Short Listing  Prior            TM           Full
8.  Scholarships                                     2.0        N/A         Kanwil      Other         Random Post   SPN             SOE
9.  Contract Teachers                                 1.2       N/A         Kanwil      Other         Random Post   SPN             SOE
10.  Operational Costs                                1.8        N/A         Kanwil      Other         Random Post    SPN           SOE
/ A project-financed consultant would review about 20 contracts of which RSI would review about 8.



INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Central Project Management
Procurement Plan
Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Contract
Total    Estimated                                               Bank       Documents
Value     Contract   DlP/INPRES   Procurement       Kind of      Review     required for
No.  Category                                       (US$ M)   Quantity       Allocation     Method         Review        By       Disbursement
1.  Civil Works
2. Equipment/ and Furniture
Small package <$50,000                           0.3         20       Dikmenum    Shopping        Random Post    RSI           SOE
Medium package >$50,000 - <$200,000              0.S         5        Dikmenum    NCB             Random Post    RSI           SOE
Specific and large package >S200,000                                  Dikmenum    ICB             Prior            TM           Full
First contract >$50,000                                       I       Dikmenum    TBD             Prior            RSI          Full
3.  Educational Materials/Books
Small Package <$50,000)                          0.5         10       Dikmenum    Shopping        Random Post    RSI            SOE
4.  In-country Training                               .08        n/a       Dikmenum    Other           Random Post    SPN           SOE
5.  Overseas Training                                0.0         n/a          N/A       N/A           N/A              N/A          N/A                                            t,
6.  Consultancy Service & Studies                                          Dikmenum
Firm <$100,000                                   0.2         2        Dikmenum    Short List      Limited Prior    RSI          SOE
Individual <$50,000                              0.5         10       Dikmenum    Other           Limited Prior    RSI         SOE
Others                                           2.0          5       Dikmenum    Short List      Prior            TM           Full
7.  Subsidies/Scholarships
8.  Operational Costs                                 1.4        n/a       Dikmenum    Other          Random Post    SPN            SOE



160                  Annex 21: Page I of 1
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year       Amount per       Cumulative         Disbursement
and semester         semester          amount             Profile /a
-------------(US$ million)------  %       %
FY97
1                   3.0 /b         3.0       3           0
2                   3.0             6.0      6           0
FY98
1                   7.3           13.3      13           3
2                   8.0           21.3      20           6
FY99
1                  10.0           31.3      30           10
2                  10.0           41.3      39           22
FY00
1                  12.5           53.8      51          34
2                  12.5           66.3      63           42
FY01
1                  12.7           79.0      76          54
2                  12.6           91.6      88           66
FY02
1                   7.0           98.6      94          74
2                   5.4           104.0    100           82
Project Completion Date:   December 31, 2001
Project Closing Date:    June 30, 2002
/a Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia (1995).
/b An estimated initial deposit to the Special Account.



Annex 22: Page I of 1                     161
INDONESIA
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Apergis S., The Case for Support of Private Education, Working Paper, 1995
Apergis S., Raising Demand for Junior Secondary Education Among the Poor in Indonesia,
Working Paper, 1996
Dhanani S., Demand for Junior Secondary Education in Indonesia, Working Paper, 1996
Haribowo H., Consultancy Report Examinations, Working Paper, 1995
Mahadi R., Nielsen D., Somerset A., Wardani I., Secondary Education in Indonesia:
Strengthening Teacher Competency and Student Learning, Working Paper, 1996
Nasution, N., Initial Findings and Recommendations on Science and Technology Education
in Secondarv School, Working Paper, 1996
Richardson P. and Syamsun M., Junior Secondary Education Project: Information
Management and Utilization, Working Paper, 1996
Suyata, Communitv Participation in Secondary School Program, Working Paper, 1995
World Bank/OED, Report No.9752, Indonesian Education and the World Bank: An
Assessment of Two Decades of Lending, June 1991.
The Regional Office The Ministry of Education and Culture Central Java, Appendix B List of
Tables, January 1996.
The Regional Office The Ministry of Education and Culture Central Java, Final Draft
Proposal: Expansion and Improvement Plans of SMP/MTs Schools Dealing with
The Implementation of Basic Educational Program of the Universal Education in
Central Java for 1997/1988-2001/2001 School Years, 1996
The Ministry of Education and Culture Central Kalimantan Regional Office, Proposal of The
Equity and the Improvement of Junior High School Quality 1996/1997-2000/2001,
1996
The Ministry of Education and Culture Special Yogyakarta Regional Office, Proposal of The
Quality Improvement of Junior High School and Senior High School 1996/1997-
2000/2001, 1996
Regional Office of the Ministry of Education and Culture West Kalimantan, Enlargement of
the Opportunity to Get Education and Stepping Up the Quality of Education in Junior
Secondary Schools in West Kalimantan, 1996



162                                    Annex 23: Page 1 of I
INDONESIA
Central lindonesia Junior Secondary Education Project
BANK GROUP-FINANCED EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECTS
Loan/                                                                                     Amount
Credit    Board    Actual                                                            (less cancellations) a
Number  Approval  Closing  Projects                                         Agency        IBRD      IDA
- US$ million ---
---NIMOEC
219      1970      1976   First Education                                MOEC Lb                  4.5
387      1973      1981   Third Education                               MOEC                     13.5
1237      1976      1981   Fourth Education                              MOEC           24.1
1433      1977      1984   First Teacher Training                        MOEC           17.8
1486      1977      1984   Nonformal education                           MOEC            8.3
869      1978      1985   Polytechnic                                   MOEC                     49.0
1904      1980      1987   First University Development                  MOEC           43.1
2101      1982      1990  Second Teacher rraining                         MOEC          79.1
2102      1982      1988   Second Textbook                                MOEC          24.9
2290      1983      1990  Seconid Polytechnic                             MOEC         106.0
2355      1983      1990   Second Nonformal Education                     MOEC          43.0
2472      1984      1990   Secondary Education and Mgmt Training          MOEC          76.6
2547      1985      1993   Secornd University Development                 MOEC         147.0
2944      1988      1993  Hligher Education Development                   MOEC         140.3
3158      1990         ---  Second Secondary Education and Mgmt          MOEC          154.2
3311      1991      1995   Second Higher Education Development           MOEC          150.0
3431      1991         --  'hiid Nonformal Education                     MOEC           59.6
3448      1992         --  Primary Education Quality Improvement          MOEC          37.0
3496      1992         --  Primary School Teacher Development            MOEC           36.6
3754      1994         --  Univer.sity Research for Graduate Education   MOEC           58.9
3887      1995             Book and Reading Development                  MOEC          132.5
3979      1996         --  Secondary School Teacher Development          MOEC           60.4
Subtotal of Projects with MOEC                            1339.0       67.0
Other Ministries
288      1972      1978   Second Education (Agriculture Training)        MOA L                    6.3
1692      1979      1985   Second Agricultural Training                  MOA            34.7
2258      1983      1988  Public Works Manpower Development               MOPW 14       29.8
2341      1983      1992   Third Agricultural Training                   MOA            62.9
2599      1985      1993   Science and Technology Training                MORT Le       93.0
2705      1986      1995   Manpower Development and Training              MOM Lf        58.1
2940      1988      1995   Accountancy Development                        MOF Lg       113.0
2992      1988      1995   Tree Crop Human Resource Development           MOA           18.4
3112      1988         --  Public Works InstitLution Dev. & Training     MOPW           36.1
3134      1989         --  Professional Human Resources Development      BAPPENAS  117.5
BPPT Lh, MOF
3721      1994         --  Skills Development                            MOM            27.7
3825      1995         --  Professional Human Resources Development II   BAPPENAS   69.0
BPPT, MOF
Subtotal of Projects with Other Ministries                 660.2        6.3
GRAN'D TOTAL                                              1992        73.
/a' The amount less cancellation"' applies only to the projects which were closed (with "Year of Actual Closing").
The amiiount for other ongoing projects was taken from the Staff Appraisal Reports.
Lb  MOEC - Ministry of Education and Culture.
Lc  MOA   - Mini-,try of Agriculture.
1d  MOPW - Minisiry of Public Works.
Ie  MORT - Ministry of Research and Technology.
If MOM - Ministry of Manpower.
,:' MOF   - Ministry oi' Finance.
ii  BPPT  - Agency for Asscssrnent and Application of Technology.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27960
INDONESIA
CENTRAL  INDONESIA                                                           lO AND BELOW IDT VILLAGES         SEIECTEDTOWNSANDVILLAGES             ROADS
JUNIOR  SECONDARY  EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                        ,1% 2VhlDTVILLAGES            *  DISTRICT IKABUPATENI CAPITALS         DISTRICT (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
TARGETING  SUPPORT  FOR  EDUCATION                                                     30% AND ABOVEIDT VILLAGES      0PROVINCE (PROPINSII CAPITALS      -     PROVINCE POPINSI) BOUNDARIES IES
* NATIONAL CAPITAL JINSET)            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      W.I -  -
IN RURAL AND POOR AREAS                                                                                                                                                                            p.Ma.,        l=V
ISAt             lElf              Ill-  )           1;2 I13          IH I It                                                                            '        EIAILAND                   PHILIPPINES
M ALAYSIA                    I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALAYSIABL%                                       C 
p    . _-%.' :                        S           M    A    L  A    Y   S  I A-
vh  |                                --Vr  IREm                       jc_                                    G      SINGAPORE
C                                                          7                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KALI.MANTAN~
7Vr   <  /   \ -}s /-  I  - 0                           0 0+           ; KA L[MA N r N     SULAWESI
-                    2 5,,A>                               -r  -'         I _.   r   .Orvs   r   ~    X    7  _1  ,^  r   1_ ATS A_ I'JA,5ERAM                          IRIAN JAYA  Z
-                 -;t'-\~<'  -,,, .r   '_'t   9     5          >    )          (_                                                 Jokcrt0<* jI''"'' :"    N  D  O  N  E S I A
I *4*,, '       r.. A W A F F LORES
-c            -; 5                       tk.t~E             d1                                                                                              JAW TINGND!AU SCEA                                     USTRA
- .L#  -                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUSTRALIA
0-    -
6.,                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jacv a   lI
-ior  -,'-9  '-xt   ' _ _> X  4 t/; .r3  JAWA TENGAH & YOGYAKARTA
N-'                                                                                                                                                         'r.      *        \ 5r6  ISA 0L
D-rjr 7S       .E                                       -0                                                                                                   1500 .3
,LA flc- 1Xg                                                                   Eu&-~  1l5'  lCEP  llCB  111'
.~ '  I ,>Iz                                      -_  I   I   .   .   I  -     '                             '                              '                      MA.   ,0
0  50   122                        1                         5-0 
KIIO.EYERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~                     -2
1)2'                     lie~~             11' -









IMAGING
Report No:       15500 IND
Type: SAR



