Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4062 IND
Loan Agreement
(Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 12, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4062 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the 
Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Central Indonesia" and "Project Provinces" mean the Borrower's provinces 
of Central Java, D. I. Yogyakarta, Central Kalimantan, and West Kalimantan;
(b)
"Dikmenum" means the Directorate of Secondary Education in the Borrower's 
Ministry of Education and Culture; 
(c)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing April 1 and 
ending March 31; 
(d)
"Kandep" means a district office of the Borrower's Ministry of Education 
and Culture;
(e)
"Kanin" means Kantor Inspeksi, a district office of the Borrower's 
Ministry of Education and Culture;
(f)
"Kanwil" means a provincial office of the Borrower's Ministry of 
Education and Culture;
(g)
"MGMP" means the subject-matter discussion and learning groups of 
teachers;
(h)
"PKG" means the Borrower's in-service teacher training program;
 
(i)
"SMP Terbuka" means the Borrower's open junior secondary education, a 
non-traditional program for delivery of junior secondary education to poor, mainly 
rural, children, through non-fee-paying, afternoon classes at a center and 
supplemented by tutorials in the village; and
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred four million 
dollars ($104,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
Page  3
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be 
made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Page  4
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, educational, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  6
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated         % of
                         (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category          ollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Civil works           35,200,000      70%
(2)  Goods                 33,100,000      100% of foreign
                                           expenditures,
                                           100% of local
                                           expenditures
                                           (ex-factory
                                           cost) and 65%
                                           of local
                                           expenditures for
                                           other items
                                           procured locally
 (3) Training:
     (a)  Local             9,900,000      50%
     (b)  Overseas          1,400,000      100%
(4)  Operating costs        4,900,000      100%
(5)  Scholarships           8,000,000      50%
(6)  Contract teachers      3,700,000      80%
(7)  Consultants'
     services:
     (a) contracted         3,400,000      100%
         by a Project
         Province
     (b) other              2,300,000      80%
(8)  Unallocated            2,100,000
Page  7
                           __________
          TOTAL           104,000,000
                          ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating costs" means expenditures on account of the Project 
incurred by the Central Program Coordinating Unit and the Provincial Project 
Implementation Units referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
for travel, per diem, allowances, supplies, maintenance, and office accommodations 
(but excluding salaries); and travel, supplies, and other administrative costs 
incurred by teachers and tutors for the carrying out of the SMP Terbuka; and
(d)
the term "scholarships" means financial assistance to students pursuing 
junior secondary education.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) civil works contracts costing 
less than $200,000; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000; (iii) 
training, scholarships and operating costs; and (iv) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the 
employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the quality 
and coverage of junior secondary education in its provinces of Central Java, D. I. 
Yogyakarta, Central Kalimantan and West Kalimantan, through the expansion of access to 
junior secondary education in a cost-effective and equitable way, the improvement of 
teaching at junior secondary schools, and the strengthening of the management capacity 
at all levels of the education system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
PART A:
Expansion of Access to Junior Secondary Education
 
Expanding the access of students to junior secondary education in the Project 
Provinces through:
1.
Central Java
 
(a)
Construction of public schools of nine classrooms or less, in large, poor 
rural communities, including provision of furniture, and construction of libraries, 
administration and teacher rooms at selected existing schools.
(b)
Carrying out of a program of employment of contract teachers in core 
academic areas for rural schools where retaining teachers is difficult.
(c)
Expansion of  the SMP Terbuka through provision of learning and reference 
materials to students and teachers, and financing of operating costs.
Page  8
(d)
Carrying out of a program to provide scholarships to junior secondary 
students based on family income and student school performance.
(e)
Design and implementation of a program to develop parents' awareness of 
the benefits of secondary education, and teachers and leaders' commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, through analysis, design and dissemination of printed and 
audio-visual messages.
2.
D. I. Yogyakarta
 
Carrying out of a program to provide scholarships to junior secondary students 
based on family income and student school performance.
3.
Central Kalimantan
 
(a)
Construction of  three-classroom public schools in rural areas where 
enrollment rates are low and villages are poor, including provision of related 
furniture, establishment of libraries at existing schools, and construction by 
communities of dormitories and teacher residences at isolated rural public and private 
schools. 
(b)
Carrying out of a program of employment of contract teachers in core 
academic areas for rural schools where retaining teachers is difficult.
(c)
Expansion of the SMP Terbuka through provision of learning and reference 
materials to students and teachers, and financing of operating costs.
(d)
Carrying out of a program to provide scholarships to junior secondary 
students based on family income and student school performance.
4.
West Kalimantan
 
(a)
Construction of three-classroom public schools in unserved, poor rural 
areas with low population, six-classroom public schools in more populated rural areas, 
construction by communities of dormitories and teacher residencies at isolated rural 
public and private schools, establishment of libraries at existing schools, and 
provision of related furniture.
(b)
Carrying out of a program of employment of contract teachers in core 
academic areas for rural schools where retaining teachers is difficult.
(c)
Establishment of the SMP Terbuka through provision of learning and 
reference materials and financing of operating costs.
(d)
Carrying out of a program to provide scholarships to junior secondary 
students based on family income and student school performance. 
PART B:
Improvement of the Quality of Junior Secondary Education
 
Improvement of the quality of junior secondary education through:
1.
Central Java
 
(a)
Improvement of teachers' skills, including the use of tests and 
identification of learning weaknesses, through provision of PKG and MGMP training, and 
training of  SMP Terbuka tutors and instructors.
(b)
Provision of teaching aids, equipment for science and other subjects, 
reference and library books for public and private schools, and school office 
equipment.
2.
D. I. Yogyakarta
 
(a)
Improvement of teachers' skills through provision of PKG and MGMP 
training, specialized science training, and specialized training for librarians.
(b)
Construction of specialized teaching rooms at existing schools, including 
Page  9
science laboratories, libraries, language laboratories, computer rooms and 
audio-visual aid rooms.
(c)
Provision of reference and library books, science materials, audiovisual 
aids, and computers to public and private schools.
(d)
Assessment of student performance on the basis of international 
standards, and promotion of academic projects by individual students and school teams.
3.
Central Kalimantan
 
(a)
Improvement of teachers and teacher instructors' skills through provision 
of PKG and MGMP training, including training in content of core subjects, 
identification of learning weaknesses and classroom assessment methods.
(b)
Provision of science equipment, teaching aids and equipment, and 
reference and library books to public and private schools. 
(c)
Development of examination materials, scoring of examinations, and 
analysis of student learning problems.
4.
West Kalimantan
 
(a)
Improvement of teachers' skills through PKG and MGMP training; provision 
of training to SMP Terbuka tutors and administrators; and provision of university 
courses for skill upgrading
to teachers without three-year post-secondary diplomas.
(b)
Provision of reference and library books, laboratory equipment and 
teaching aids to public and private schools.
(c)
Development of examination item banks, scoring, and analysis of student 
learning problems.
PART C:
Strengthening of the Management of the Education System
 
Strengthening the management of the education sector through:
1.
Central Java
 
Strengthening of local management capacity to develop information systems to 
analyze trends and identify educational problems of Kanwils and Kandeps/Kanins through 
provision of technical assistance, computers and other information technology, 
development, printing and acquisition of related materials, and staff training.
2.
D. I. Yogyakarta
 
Strengthening Kanwil and Kandep/Kanin education management planning and 
monitoring through  provision of technical assistance, equipment and staff training, 
and development, printing and acquisition of related materials.
3.
Central Kalimantan
 
Strengthening Kanwil and Kandep/Kanin planning and management responsibility 
through provision of technical assistance, computer technology and staff training, and 
provision of training to school principals in school management.
4.
West Kalimantan
 
Strengthening Kanwil and Kandep/Kanin capabilities for planning and monitoring 
through provision of technical assistance, computers and other equipment, and staff 
training.
PART D:
Project Management
 
Strengthening the capacity of the Provincial Project Management Unit in each of 
the Project Provinces and of the Jakarta Dikmenum through provision of technical 
Page  10
assistance, staff training and office equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
February 15, 2002                               2,020,000
August 15, 2002                                 2,090,000
February 15, 2003                               2,160,000
August 15, 2003                                 2,235,000
February 15, 2004                               2,315,000
August 15, 2004                                 2,395,000
February 15, 2005                               2,480,000
August 15, 2005                                 2,565,000
February 15, 2006                               2,655,000
August 15, 2006                                 2,750,000
February 15, 2007                               2,845,000
August 15, 2007                                 2,945,000
February 15, 2008                               3,045,000
August 15, 2008                                 3,150,000
February 15, 2009                               3,260,000
August 15, 2009                                 3,375,000
February 15, 2010                               3,495,000
August 15, 2010                                 3,615,000
February 15, 2011                               3,740,000
August 15, 2011                                 3,870,000
February 15, 2012                               4,010,000
August 15, 2012                                 4,145,000
February 15, 2013                               4,290,000
August 15, 2013                                 4,440,000
February 15, 2014                               4,595,000
August 15, 2014                                 4,755,000
February 15, 2015                               4,925,000
August 15, 2015                                 5,095,000
February 15, 2016                               5,275,000
August 15, 2016                                 5,465,000
________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium  payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum) 
applicable to the Loan on the 
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                             0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                             0.30
     not more than six years
Page  11
     before maturity
More than six years but                               0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                       0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                       1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $ 200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertisement
 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Except as provided in paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Part C, civil works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  12
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,100,000 equivalent, and printing services estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
 
Educational materials which are of a proprietary nature and costing $16,900,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
 
Civil works required for the construction of dormitories and teacher residences 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $27,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, 125 randomly selected contract for goods estimated to cost less than 
$200,000, the first ten civil works contracts in each Fiscal Year in Central Java, and 
the first five civil works contracts in each Fiscal Year in each of D. I. Yogyakarta, 
Central Kalimantan and West Kalimantan, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
Page  13
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individuals 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall, not later than November 1, 1996, establish and, thereafter 
maintain until the completion of the Project:
(a)
a Central Program Advisory Committee and, in each of the Project 
Provinces, a Provincial Project Advisory Committee, with members and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
a Central Program Coordination Unit and, in each of the Project 
Provinces, a Provincial Project Implementation Unit, with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.
In carrying out Part A.1 (a), A.3 (a), and A.4 (a) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall select locations for the construction of schools and teacher dormitories in 
accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank.
3.
In carrying out Part A.1 (b), A.3 (b) and A.4 (b) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ contract teachers in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
4.
In carrying out Part A.1 (d), A.2, A.3 (d) and A.4 (d) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall provide scholarships in accordance with selection criteria agreed with 
the Bank.
5.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by July 31 of each calendar year, commencing July 31, 1997, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the preceding year and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the year following such date;
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 
1997, or at such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views 
on the matter;
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
Page  14
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(e)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the  objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
6.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
cause technical audits of Project implementation to be carried out, in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank, in each Fiscal Year during implementation of the 
Project; and
(b)
furnish to the Bank for comments as soon as available but not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a copy of such audit.
7.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
not later than October 1 in each year, commencing October 1, 1997, and 
until the completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank for comments a report on the 
implementation of the budget for the Project for the past and current Fiscal Year, 
together with the proposed budget for the following Fiscal Year; and
(b)
thereafter, revise the proposed budget for the following Fiscal Year 
taking into account the Bank's comments.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  15
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  16
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
