Report No. PID11408
Project Name                     PARAGUAY-PARAGUAY SECONDARY EDUCATION REFORM
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Secondary education (100%)
Project ID                       P073526
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
Implementing Agency
MINSTRY OF EDUCATION
Address:
Chile 849
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Contact Person: Marta Lafuente
Tel: 595-21-448214
Fax: 595-21-448214
Email: mecmeces@rieder.net.py
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 26, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 10, 2003
Bank Approval Date               April 8, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Paraguay has taken serious steps towards education reform during the past
decade. Under a long-lasting consulting partnership with Harvard
University (HIID) in the early 1990s, an in-depth analysis of the
country's education situation was carried out and the Government planned
the necessary future developments for the next two decades (Paraguay
2020). Despite Paraguay's political and economic instability, the
education sector has remained stable and has received strong political
support, as evidenced by steady increases in national budget allocations.
The Government of Paraguay (GOP) has demonstrated its high level of
commitment and support for education in the successful implementation and
timely closing of the Bank-financed MECES (Secondary Education Quality
Improvement) Project, which was designed and implemented within the
framework of long-lasting strategic policies set by the GOP.
The following sector issues have been identified during initial
preparation of the new project:
(a) Planning and management of education services is ineffective. Policy
and planning are weak at all levels Through Bank and IADB-supported
projects, the MEC has made notable progress in educational information
management in: (i) compilation of national educational statistics through
collection of data at the central, state and school levels, and the
creation of state statistics units (UDEs); (ii) initiation of a permanent
structure for educational research and policy studies; and (iii) the
establishment of the national student achievement assessment system
(SNEPE). However, the new systems were established rapidly, outpacing the
human capacity for analysis and planning. To date, the use of the
statistical data is minimal at the central level and lower administrative



levels and SNEPE results are not incorporated into teaching or training
for teachers.   Management of teacher hiring is also a serious issue.
Many secondary school teachers currently jump from school to school and
from town to town, often traveling long distances to fill MEC-mandated
hourly quotas in face-to-face classroom activities. As a result, these
"taxi" teachers do not identify with any one institution and have no time
to meet with students, fellow teachers, directors or parents outside of
class hours. Weaknesses in employment policy and planning for directors
and teachers are evident in educational outcomes at the upper secondary
level. Inefficiencies have been detected in sector expenditure and
management, largely due to employment expansion and salary increases, each
more than doubling during the 1990s. Fiscal constraints preclude further
increases in educational expenditure over the foreseeable future, so any
expansion of the system would require improved efficiency in spending.
(b) Educational outcomes are poor. Paraguay's secondary student
achievement level is low. National student performance results for the
final year of lower secondary education in the year 2000 (Informe de las
Pruebas Nacionales. Asunci6n: MEC/SNEPE/MECES, 2001), indicate that
students in the general Academic track had learned only 51- of the
Language program, 37T in Mathematics, and 48t in Social Sciences; the
rates for Technical track students were marginally higher: 56w, 42t and
51-, respectively.  Urban students scored consistently higher than rural
students, girls higher than boys, private school students higher than
those in public schools, and daytime students higher than night shift
students.  Dropout rates are comparatively high (16t for first year
students, 10t for second year students and 11   for students in the final
year of secondary school in 2000), and only 24t of those students who
start school actually finish. Those students who do graduate do not have
the requisite skills to become productive members of society. Factors
more frequently used to explain these results include: (a) poor initial
teacher training; (b) low teacher qualifications and insufficient
in-service training; (c) a fragmented and disconnected teacher development
and monitoring strategy; (d) a school environment not conducive to
teaching and learning; (e) an imbalanced and irrelevant curricula; (f)
inappropriate supervision and support mechanisms for teachers and (g)
inconsistent community support and awareness.
(c) Few disadvantaged students (rural and poor) enroll in secondary
schools. Secondary education net enrollment (for students age 15-17) in
2000 was 32t (167,000 students) and was noticeably asymmetric: 83t urban
and 17t rural (in a country with a rural population of 50w); 76t public
and 24t private.  The gross enrollment ratio of approximately 50t
indicates a significant number of over-age students in the system. In
addition, only some 50t of those students who complete basic education
currently move to secondary school. Only 24 of every 100 children
enrolled in first grade complete secondary education. However, a stark
difference exists between urban areas, with a 52t completion rate, and
rural areas, with 5W. A marked increase in migration to urban areas also
exceeds the capacity of urban and suburban schools. This is especially
true in marginal urban areas, where many classrooms are overcrowded. Two
major factors have concurred to create and expand this inequity scenario:
(a) students cannot afford or reach existing secondary education services;
and (b) existing secondary education services do not respond to the needs
of rural students.
-2-



Government Strategy: The MEC initiated a national reform program in 1994
with the first grade of primary school and has added a grade each school
year. In 2003, they will move to a reform of secondary education.
Successful decentralization strategies and inclusion of parents and
community members in the MECES project have created greater social
awareness for education and strong pressure on the MEC to deliver a
program at the secondary level. The GOP has indicated its intention to
maintain consistent investments in the sector. In turn, the MEC is aware
that efficiencies in spending will need to be gained in order to expand
and improve the quality of the education. The MEC is currently reviewing
hiring practices and the organization of the administrative staff to seek
ways to increase efficiency. They are also: (i) increasing support to
state UDEs and education councils to further decentralize central-level
functions and provide greater support to schools; (ii) increasing the use
of diagnostic assessment mechanisms; (iii) evaluating the demand-driven
teacher training and supervision pilot with an eye to expansion under this
proposed project; (iv) reforming the secondary school curriculum to make
it more relevant to the needs of the society and (v) exploring
alternatives to increase access of secondary education to rural and urban
poor students.
2. Objectives
The overall project goal is to build human capital in Paraguay which, in
turn, will contribute to the diversification of the economy and more
sustainable growth. This objective will be achieved by supporting a
comprehensive secondary education reform program for Grades 10-12,
building on the successes achieved under MECES. The development objective
of this project is to improve management and efficiency, educational
outcomes, and equity in opportunity of the secondary education system.
This will be achieved by: (i) creating additional capacity for sub-sector
analysis, planning, monitoring and evaluation, and introducing revised
employment practices; (ii) introducing a new approach to teacher
development and enhancing the school environment through better on-site
support for teachers and stronger school-community ties; and (iii)
establishing innovative mechanisms to ensure more equitable access to
secondary education.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has a long history of commitment to financial and technical
assistance to Paraguay and an ongoing relationship with the MEC. A
collaborative approach has yielded increased cooperation between the Bank
and a wide range of stakeholders, including teacher union
representatives. The Bank's participatory style of working on missions
has enhanced the MEC team spirit and encouraged greater collaboration
among the MEC units and the PCU. The Bank has carried out extensive
sector work in secondary education and can provide best practice examples
of initiatives at this level. Particular to this project, the Bank's team
offers expertise and familiarity with international secondary education
reforms and school-based programs to improve quality, particularly in
Chile, Argentina and Brazil.
4. Description
-3-



The project will focus on three main areas in response to the sector
issues:
(a) Improved tools for planning and managing the education sector,
including (i) improved methods for data collection, analysis and research,
(ii) new management techniques for evidence-based decision making, (iii) a
revised policy for hiring teachers and (iv) a new MEC facility;
(b) A new approach to teacher development and enhanced school environment,
including (i) reoriented approaches for pre- and in-service teacher
training, (ii) revised curriculum in secondary classes, new approaches to
student-centered learning, new approaches to teaching science and
technology and the creation of three prototype schools, (iii) new
approaches to school supervision, (iv) a program to train school
principals in management and supervision aspects, (v) social community
programs to establish strong school/ community linkages and (vi) public
awareness and political support campaign for secondary education reform;
and
(c) Mechanisms to ensure equitable access to secondary education,
including (i) an innovative pilot program for distance/open learning for
secondary education and (ii) a sustainable scholarship program.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $20.00
IBRD $50.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $70.00
6. Implementation
A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), already established under the recently
closed Bank-funded MECES project, will be responsible for project
coordination, management and implementation. An Executive Project
Coordinator will be assigned by the MEC to coordinate project progress and
will be the principal link with the World Bank. The PCU will include the
number of staff members gauged necessary to carry out the coordination,
procurement, financial management and accounting of the project. An
assessment will be carried out during project preparation.
7. Sustainability
The strong political support from the GOP and the extensive stakeholder
consultations that have gone into project design should ensure the
sustainability of the project. The GOP has demonstrated its support to
the education sector over time, in spite of frequent political and
economic instability. In addition, efforts to decentralize
responsibilities, such as collection and analysis of education statistics,
supervision, and teacher training, and to increase community participation
through the social community programs, will allow stakeholders to
influence policy decisions and implement and sustain the project's
initiatives. Finally, efforts to improve the efficiency and effectiveness
of sector planning and management should make the project financially
- 4 -



viable over time.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Balanced project design. Owing to concerns about implementation and
technical capacity, project design of the MECES project was simple. The
proposed project has attempted to maintain the same level of balance and
simplicity, focusing very specifically on management, school-level inputs
and access. Flexibility will be a key factor in maintaining project
vibrancy and relevance to an evolving education reform process.
Political support and project ownership work as good predictors of
outcomes. The overall political support and broad-based project ownership
within the MEC carried the MECES project through periods of instabilities.
The proposed project will aim to likewise involve key stakeholders, and,
in fact, has done so during the preparation process. The semi-autonomous
PCU will involve the relevant parties in the design and implementation
processes.
Pilot efforts and the demonstration effect. The teacher training
experience under the MECES project demonstrated the typical obstacles to
introducing new paradigms in entrenched systems, and the benefits of an
incremental approach. Gradual pilot efforts have introduced the notion of
continuous teacher training, with inputs from the teachers themselves.
The pilots have been well received and merit expansion under the proposed
project.
The importance of local stakeholder participation. The MECES project
demonstrated the potential for creating demand for quality education and
enhancing related accountability at the school and local levels. The
communications awareness campaign and the social community projects should
garner similar support for secondary education under the proposed project.
Evaluation plan in place at project start-up. Despite the difficulties of
mounting initial impact evaluation designs, every effort should be made to
do so. The value-added of having baseline data with mid-term and later
project results or broader sectoral changes is significant for ensuring
effective use of project resources and signaling needs for change.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are no major issues.   Sites will be selected
and EAs will be carried out for the three new schools and the MEC
facility, following established environmental guidelines for LCSHD.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Cynthia Hobbs
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8580
Fax:  (202) 522-1201
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
- 5-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
January 31, 2002.
-6-



