                                             Document of 

                                          The World Bank 


                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                    Report No: 25630




                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT 


                                                ONA 


                             PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN 


                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24.0 MILLION EQUNALENT 


                                              TO THE 


                                     REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 


                                              FORAN 


                                 EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM 

                             IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE 

                                          PROGRAM 


                                            June 25, 2003 





Human Development Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Cbile, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and tile Caribbean Region



                                                                                FILE COpy 

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                           CURRENCY EQUNALENTS
                             (Exchange Rate Effective)
                           Currency Unit = Guarani (Gs.)
                                Gs.6,900 = US$1.0
                                 US$l.O = 0.0001

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 - December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACE     Parent association (Asociacion de Cooperacion Escolar)
APL     Adaptable Program Lending
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDE     State Education Council (Consejo Departamental de Educacion)
CDS     State Supervision Commision (Comision Departamental de Supervision)
CNACE   National Commission of ACEs
        (Comision Nacional de Asociaciones de Cooperacion Escolar)
CONEC   National Council for Education and Culture (Consejo Nacional de Educacion y Cultural
CRA     Learning resource center (Centro de Recursos de Aprendizaje)
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
FMRA    Financial Management Risk Assessment
FMR     Financial Management Report
OOP     Government of Paraguay
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank
MEC     Ministry of Education and Culture
MECES   Secondary Education Improvement Project
        (Proyecto de Mejoramiento de La CaUdad de la Educacion Secundaria)
MOBE    Student-led association to improve education and protect students' rights
        (Movimiento por la ObtenciOn del Bienestar Estudiantil)
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
OM      Operational Manual
PCU     Project Coordinating Unit
PEl     School development plan (Plan Educativo Institucional)
PSP     Social community project (Proyecto Socio-Productivo)
QAT     Quality Assurance Team
SNEPE   National Student Achievement Assessment System
        (Sistema Nacional de Evaluacion de los Procesos Educativos)
TOMS    Teacher Development and Management System
TTl     Teacher training institute (lnstituto de Formacion Docente - IFD)
UDE     State Statistical Unit (Unidad Departamental de Estad(stica)

                        Vice President:     David De Ferranti
                      Country Director:     Axel van Trotsenburg
                       Sector Manager:      Marito H. Garcia
                     Task Team Leader:      Cynthia M. Hobbs
                                                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                PARAGUAY 

                                        EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM 



                                                     CONTENTS 





      A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                     Page

         1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                   3

         2. Project development objective                                                         3

         3. Key performance indicators                                                            3

      B. Strategic Context

         1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4

         2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5

         3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10 

         4.   Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  11 


      C. Program and Project Description Summary

         1.   Project components                                                                 12 

         2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      15 

         3.   Benefits and target population                                                     16 

         4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      16 


      D. Project Rationale

         1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         17 

         2.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies     19 

         3.   Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               20 

         4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  21 

         5.   Value added of Bank support in this project                                       22 


      E. Summary Project Analysis

        1.    Economic                                                                          22 

        2.    Financial                                                                         23
        3.    Technical                                                                         24 

        4.    Institutional                                                                     24 

        5.    Environmental                                                                     26 

        6.    Social                                                                            27
        7.    Safeguard Policies                                                                28 



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without WorId Bank authorization.
F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     29 

   2. Critical risks                                                                     29 

   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     30 



G. Main Loan Conditions

   I. Effectiveness Condition                                                            30 

   2. Other                                                                              31 


H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          31 


I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         31 



Annexes

Annex I:  Project Design Summary                                                         32 

Annex 2:  Detailed Project Description                                                   37 

Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs                                                        49 

Annex 4:  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          50 

Annex 5:  Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   61 

Annex 6:  (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                   67 

          (B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                         73 

Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     79 

Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   81 

Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  83 

Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            84 

Annex II: Institutional Analysis                                                         86 

Annex 12: Beneficiary Consultation                                                       90 

Annex 13: Letter of Sector Development Policy                                            92 

                                                   PARAGUAY
                                            EDUCAnON REFORM PROGRAM

                                           Project Appraisal Document
                                            Latin America and Caribbean Region 

                                                         LCSHE 


Date: June 25, 2003                                          Team Leader: Cynthia Hobbs
Sector Manager: Marito H. Garcia                             Sector(s): Secondary education (70%), General education
Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg                        sector (30%)
Project ID: P073526                                           Theme(s): Education for the knowledge economy (P),
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)              Education for all (S)




APL 1                                                                                  IRe:Dul,lic of Paraguay
   Loan!
   Credit
APL2          20.00      75.5            6.50       26.50                              IReDu),lic of Paraguay
   Loan!


 [X] Loan       [ ] Credit       [ ] Grant        [ ] Guarantee       [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 24.0
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:  Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                             Years to maturity: 23
Commitment fee: 0.75%                               Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                    Payment for FEF: Borrower to Pay from Own Resources

Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
 [X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
 [ ]. Linked to Disbursement
Borrower: REPUBUC OF PARAGUAY
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address:
Chile 849
Asunci6n. Paraguay
Contact Person: Marta Lafuente
Tel: 595-21448214                Fax: 595-21448214                Email: mecrneces@rieder.net.py




Project implementation period: 3 years 

Expected effectiveness date: 1111412003    Expected closing date: 06/30/2007 





                                                     -2
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The purpose of the Paraguay Education Reform Program is two-fold. First, it will assist the Government
of Paraguay (GOP) in its effort to achieve necessary efficiency gains across the system. Rapid growth of
the education system during the 1990s required large increases in expenditure, particularly for the first
two cycles, Grades 1-6. Public recurrent expenditure for education increased from 1.7 percent of GOP in
1991 to 4.7 percent in 2000, and accounted for 20.2 percent of total Government expenditure in 2001.
Recurrent expenditures, mostly teachers' salaries, made up 96 percent of the sector's budget in 2001,
while capital expenditures totaled only four percent, leaving little flexibility for new investment. Since
further expansion of the budget is unlikely under current fiscal limitations, system inefficiencies must be
addressed to reduce the percent of recurrent expenditures in the sector budget, thereby freeing funds to
respond to greater demand at the basic education level and to successfully implement the recently
enacted Secondary Education Reform Program.

Second, the proposed program will introduce initiatives to enhance quality and expand equitable access
at the secondary level. Many of these actions may be extended across the system, but an initial focus on
secondary education will assist the GOP to launch the reform at this level. The proposed program is
rooted in the national education reform plan, which began with grade one in 1994 and has moved
progressively through each grade of the school system. It also builds on the recent Bank-financed
Secondary Education Improvement Project (MECES) and the lOB-financed Program to Strengthen Basic
Education Reform, and adheres to the Strategic Plan for Secondary Education Reform which was
developed in 2002 with significant consultation and participation from stakeholders. The program
comprises two phases of three years each, with each phase costing approximately US$26.5 million.

2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of the Paraguay Education Reform Program are to improve (a) management
and efficiency of the system and (b) educational outcomes and equity in opportunity at the secondary
education level. These will be achieved by: (i) creating additional capacity for sector analysis, planning,
monitoring and evaluation, and improving management and development of human resources; Oi)
enhancing the school environment through provision of resources, focused planning and management of
those resources, better on-site support for teachers and directors and stronger school-community ties; and
(iii) establishing innovative mechanisms to ensure more equitable access to secondary education.

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following performance indicators will be used to measure progress in meeting the established
development objectives:




                                                  -3
                          Indicators                                      YEAR
                                                        2001 (baseline)      2006            2009
           Gross Enrollrrent Rate Secondary Level*           44%             56%              59%
           Net Enrollrrent Rate Secondary Level              33%                .             44%
       i   Repetition Rate - Secondary Level                  1%                   1%         0.9%
           Dropout Rate - Secondary Level                    11%                   9%          7%
           Gross Completion Rate for Secondary               76%                  79%         82%
           Results of the SNEPE (1:' year of secondary)
             Language and Spanish Literature                     51                54          60
             Mathematics                                         36                40          46
           Number of students per section:
             Basic education* - Ist and 200 cycles               18                23          28
             Basic education - 3rd cycle                         29                30           30
             Secondary education                                 25                27           30
           *Baslc educatIon compnses Grades 1-9 whIle the secondary level compnses Grades 10-12.
                Source: Paraguay MEC (Planning and Statistics Directorate). 2002.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16346        Date of latest CAS discussion: March 27,1997

The objectives of the proposed program are consistent with those outlined in the Bank's Paraguay
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on March 27, 1997: (i) to increase coverage
and quality of secondary education to augment the supply of qualified labor; Oi) to improve the quality
and efficiency of secondary education; (iii) to increase the Ministry of Education and Culture's (MEC)
capacity for information-based decision-making; and (iv) to promote decentralized participation of the
education community. The program design builds on the successful results of the MECES project,
including greater community participation, decentralized services (such as the state education councils
and state statistics units) and new approaches to teaching and learning. In addition, the program is in line
with the CAS recommendation to focus on poverty issues, in this case, equity in access to quality
education. The new Paraguay CAS is currently under discussion with the Government-elect and will be
prepared within the upcoming fiscal year (FY04). The goals for the education sector do not differ
significantly, and it is clear that Bank support is essential to sustain the education reform process
(confirmed in the Country Social Analysis, April 2(03). A review of social spending (April 2002), in
preparation for the CAS, has revealed inefficiencies and institutional weaknesses in the sector.
Efficiencies should be gained to maintain and meet expected increases in sector expenditures. This will
require policy changes and investments in training of human resources. These are considered under the
proposed program.

The country's Poverty Reduction Strategy (Estrategia NacionaL de Reduccion de La Pobreza y La
Desigualdad, November 2002), prepared with support from the World Bank, also highlights the
important relationship between education opportunities and poverty, noting that the extreme poor are
those with the least number of years of education and with the most limited access to education. The
greatest number of poor and extreme poor reside in rural areas. The proposed program is consistent with
the Poverty Reduction Strategy and will assist the Government in its effort to achieve its specific
secondary education goal of increasing net enrollment, especially in rural areas, as well as its more
general central goals of: 0) improving human capital through provision of education and (ii)
strengthening the social capital of the poor by offering greater opportunities for participation in the local
education community. These goals, in tum, are consistent with the Millenium Development Goals of



                                                      -4
eradicating extreme poverty and increasing literacy rates of 15-24 year oids, and improved human and
social capital will enhance the country's possibilities to achieve more sustainable economic growth and
more equitable distribution of income.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
The education sector has been privy to strong political and social support over the last decade. The 1992
Constitution highlighted the importance of education, and the Basic Education Reform program was
launched in 1994, supported by World Bank and IDB financing. The main objectives of the Reform were
to expand mandatory basic education to nine years (the six years of primary plus the first three years of
secondary), improve quality, and establish systems to measure student performance and improve sector
planning. Significant gains have been made. Net enrollment has expanded, especially in Grades 7-9 (now
the third cycle of basic education). A new national student achievement assessment system (SNEPE)
established baseline data to gauge future quality improvements, showing that student achievement in
Grades 7-9 imprOVed by 10% in mathematics between 1997 and 1999. Texts were provided to all
students in Grades 7-9 for the first time, although teaching methodology in the classroom has changed
little and employs rote learning, and school management and sector planning are still weak. Parents have
achieved greater participation in the school community during the Reform. Parent associations
(Asociaciones de Cooperacion Escolar - ACEs) took the initiative to create a National Commission of
ACEs (CNACE) and gained an institutional place in the Ministry of Education and Culture's (MEC)
structure, in the State (departamental) Education Councils (Consejos Departamentales de Educacion
-CDEs). Their greater presence in schools has led to improved quality through parental protection of
student rights, reduction in teacher absences, a safe. clean school environment, and better school
maintenance.

The expansion of basic education to nine years created an unexpected increase in demand of education
services. Many students who had left the system after 6th grade chose to return to complete their
"obligatory" schooling, and many who might have left are now choosing to stay on, thus raising net
enrollment rates for Grades 7-9 from 35% in 1994 to 52% in 2002. Social awareness regarding the
importance of education also has increased with greater parent involvement in schools. This has created
high expectations for the Secondary Education Reform Program, initiated in 2003. The MEC is under
extreme pressure to provide additional places and improve quality. To do this, the MEC must find ways
to improve sector efficiencies to stretch an already taxed budget.

The expenditure increases in the 1990s were due largely to an expansion of teaching positions ("cargos")
and salary increases, each more than doubling over a ten-year period. Employment growth, mainly of
contract teachers (i.e., annual hires rather than permanent civil servants), also lacked functional planning.
Results included a drop in student-teacher ratios from 25 to 20 over the decade for grades 1-6 and an
increase from some 10 to 20 percent for administrative expenditures. Lack of appropriate regulation to
address sector issues has also allowed for discretionary and inefficient use and allocation of resources,
especially in personnel, infrastructure and didactic materials. These inefficiencies must be addressed in
order to successfully implement the recently enacted Secondary Education Reform Program.

Sector Issues

Coverage and enrollment.
Coverage of primary education has been consistently high and increased slightly from 92% to 95%
between 1994 and 2002. Net enrollment of Grades 7-9 rose from 35% to 52% in the same time period.
Initial and pre-school enrollment has also risen significantly (from NER 30% to 70%). However,



                                                   - 5
enrollment at the secondary level (Grades 10-12) continues to be among the lowest in Latin America, and
Paraguay lags far behind its peer countries in the Mercosur (see Table I), Only 50 percent of students
who complete basic education proceed to secondary school, and only 24 percent of those who start
school finish overall (5 percent in rural areas). Enrollment by gender is fairly balanced at all levels (49%
girls and 51 % boys in basic education; 50.4% girls and 49.6% boys in secondary). However, there is a
stark contrast between enrollment in urban and rural areas. Secondary school net enrollment is noticeably
asymmetric: 83% urban and 17% rural (in a 50% rural Paraguay).

Low coverage at the secondary level has been due to low demand and supply. The percentage of
out-of-school 13-18 year olds is almost 32 percent, but rises to 46.4 percent in the first quintile and 38
percent in the second. Among poor students, the main reason for not attending school is lack of financial
resources to cover costs. Annual fees assigned to this level are equivalent to US$7, in addition to the
costs for uniform, transportation, and other related expenses, and there are important opportunity costs
linked to the loss of children's labor. Lack of supply has been an issue mostly in rural areas, where a
shortage of rural secondary schools forces families to forego further schooling for their children or send
them to urban schools, thus creating direct (lodging- and travel-related) costs. Yet with current expansion
of the third cycle of basic education and expected expansion of enrollment in secondary. supply issues
will soon arise nationwide as the MEC strives to achieve its Secondary Education Reform goal of 75%
net enrollment by 2010, increasing the real numbers from 167,000 students in 2000 to 258,000 by 2008
(latest estimate) and beyond. The capacity of some urban secondary schools is already exceeded, with
many classrooms holding up to 70 students. NGOs have made recent attempts to introduce non-formal
programs for rural, working and over-age students to alleviate migration of rural students to urban
schools.

                          Table 1. Gross and Net Enrollment Ratios at Secondary Level 

                    Spanish and Portuguese-speaking Latin America and Caribbean Countries 

                                            (School year 1999/2000) 

                            COUNTRY          Gross enrollment ratio   Net enrollment ratio
                     !
                                                     (GER)                   (NER)
                       Latin American Region                                 54.00
                      Argentina'"                   93.69                   76.02
                       Bolivia                       78.49                     --
                       Brazil'"                      103.25                  68.46
                       Chile                         87.47                   71.77         i
                       Colombia                      70.94                   54.27
                       Costa Rica                    50.94                   43.37
                      Cuba                          81.89                   79.65
                       Dominican Republic            66.45                   39.98
                       Ecuador                       56.66                   46.90
                       Guatemala                     32.68                   18.39
                      Mexico                        73.40                   57.37
                     i Nicaragua                      60.22                    ---         I
                       Panama                         68.73                   60.92
                       Paraguay*                      56.90                   45.04
                     i Peru (1999)                    80.77                   61.49
                       Uruguay'"                      91.55                   77.39
                       Venezuela                      59.33                   50.36

            * Mercosur core member countries. Bolivia and Chile are associate members. 

            Sources: UNESCO Institute for Statistics. Education: Statistical Tables (Updated Nov. 29, 2(02); 

            Regional Report on Latin America and the Caribbean 2001 (Spanish and Portuguese speaking 

            countries). 

            Note: Paraguay's MEC statistics are significantly lower (44% gross enrollment and 33% net 

            eiuollment) than UNESCO's statistics. The MEC statistics will be used to monitor this Program. 





                                                      -6
Quality and OutC(Jmes.
Paraguay's student achievement level is low in general and usually lower in rural areas. SNEPE test
results in 3rd grade Language in urban areas showed a 47.84% pass rate, while in rural areas only
40.36% of students passed. In Mathematics, those results were 45.29% and 43.82% respectively.
National student performance results for the final year of lower secondary education in 2000 indicate that
students in the general Academic track had learned only 51% of the Language program, 37% in
Mathematics, and 48% in Social Sciences; the rates for Technical track students were marginally higher:
56%,42% and 51 %, respectively (Informe de las Pruebas Nacionales. Asunci6n: MECiSNEPFlMECES, 2001).
Urban students scored consistently higher than rural students, girls higher than boys, private school
students higher than those in public schools, and day shift students higher than night shift students.

Dropout rates are relatively high, (5% for the first two cycles of basic education, 8.5 % for the third
cycle, and 11 % for secondary in 200 1) and retention rates are low, especially in the transition between
basic and secondary levels. Those students who do graduate have shown crucial deficiencies in the
ability to think critically and interpret ideas, thus lacking the skills to become productive citizens in the
changing world. The few who have jobs occupy middle-level positions such as secretaries and computer
operators. (Universidad Catolica de Asuncion. "Estudio sobre Educaci6n Media y Desarrollo en el Paraguay."
Asunci6n: MEClISFlMECES, 1999.)

Poor outcomes are partially due to teaching and learning characterized by: (i) teachers who deliver rote
lessons with no room for participatory learning and other "time-consuming" strategies; (ii) schools that
lack basic teaching and learning materials, textbooks and new education technology; (iii) poorly stocked
and under-used libraries, most of which are not connected to the Internet; and (iv) few available facilities
for individual study, group meetings or hands-on science education. Bilingual education still continues to
be an issue, especially at the basic education level and in rural areas where many entering students speak
only Guarani. Few teachers have received formal bilingual training, and texts in Guarani have aggravated
discussions around the "academic" written version vs. the traditionally oral language.

Many teachers have low qualifications, as evidenced by resulting low student achievement, and the
majority of the least qualified teachers work in rural areas. There are some 88,000 teachers in the
teaching force (12,000 initial and pre-school, 60,000 basic and 16,000 secondary level teachers). Some
57.6% of secondary teachers were specifically trained for secondary, while training for the remaining
42.4% ranges from unrelated higher education degrees to high school diplomas. Secondary school
teachers have not benefited from in-service training programs, since the focus over the last nine years has
been on the Basic Education Reform program.

Current pre- and in-service teacher training is fragmented and disconnected and accounts for many of the
deficiencies observed in teachers' performance. Pre-service training often does not match the MEC's
rhetoric for new teaching styles and subject content, and in-service training relates to the introduction of
reform-related issues (new concepts, new textbooks, etc.) in large group sessions with no evaluation and
follow-up. In-service training has been supply- rather than demand-driven, and content is generally
determined at the central level, regardless of individual schools' and teachers' needs. There are no
systems or tools to monitor and ensure teachers' and managers' performance or hold staff accountable for
their performance or professional development, and school supervision has been unsystematic and
ineffective. Most supervisors and school directors stilI focus on MEC-required paper work, despite
attempted shifts in the process. Each supervisor is responsible for 60 schools on average, and visits urban
schools a few times per year and rural schools just once a year. This puts the onus on school directors,
many of whom serve ad honorem without formal management training. Some 68% of secondary school
directors also teach, leaving little time for classroom observations and teacher support. Both supervisors



                                                    -7
and directors are ill-equipped to shift from conventional school models towards support of student
learning and teaching techniques. A pilot supervision model in four states (departamentos), headed by
the State Education Councils (CDEs), has fostered teaching/learning-oriented supervision and
demand-driven training based on student achievement results and teachers' identified needs.

The quality of many teacher training institutes (TTIs) is low. Most teacher trainers lack academic subject
knowledge and pedagogical skills, TTl libraries are outdated and underused, and new information
technologies have not been introduced in most TTIs. Lax policy on establishment of new TTls and the
absence of an accreditation system have also contributed to poor TTl quality and quick proliferation,
especially of private TTIs. This was also the case at the university level, where 20 new institutions (3
state and 17 private) opened between 1992 and 2002. An accreditation system was recently introduced
for universities, and stricter controls have been put in place. TTIs are currently being officially evaluated,
and the Government aims to introduce an accreditation system for the TTIs.

Institutional Capacity
The central MEC's personnel profiles are inadequate for its needs, and training is required. About 70
percent are administrative, 10 percent are professional and 20 percent are technical, and poor skill level
among personnel leads to an excessive number of employees. Another major problem is that MECts
departments are spread out in over 20 different locations in Asunci6n, making system coordination
difficult. The education system also lacks the institutional tools to properly administer its human
resources. The present system is burdened with duplications and inefficiencies. The main problems are:
(i) lack of control over personnel recruitment, hiring and leaves and (ii) an inadequate legal framework to
efficiently manage teaching staff appointments, to avoid unnecessary growth of teaching positions and
teaching hours. Weaknesses in employment policy have hindered institutional effectiveness. Current
criteria for teacher selection and promotion have proved to be flawed because they leave actual teaching
abilities unchecked.

Though a legal framework to decentralize the delivery of education services was approved in 2000, the
MEC's management model continues to be very centralized. Recent decentralization steps were taken
under Bank- and IDB-financed projects by establishing the CDEs, the new supervision structure (
Comision Departamental de Supervision-CDS), and the State Statistical Units (Unidades
Departamentales de Estadistica - UDEs), but all are still in the process of fully defining and developing
their structures and roles. Thus far, a "de-concentration" of functions, rather than real decentralization,
has generated duplications with municipalities and state governments, while school directors' functions
are still determined by the central level. School management replicates the central level top-down
management style, whereby directors make key decisions and share little information with students,
teachers and parents. Parent associations (ACEs), a mounting voice at basic education schools, have not
yet gained a place in secondary schools, especially for planning, monitoring and motivation-raising.

Yet the complex institutional logistics of the Basic and Secondary Reform programs demand a high
degree of stakeholder involvement. While the MEC has carried out nation-wide consultations for the
design of the sector-wide Strategic Plan and the Secondary Education Reform program, the
implementation of sector initiatives is still not fully participatory. The MEC lacks a communication plan
to inform and motivate stakeholders and to promote ownership of key educational issues. The system
also lacks a critical mass of trained supporters throughout the country to help disseminate and enhance
the education reform plan started in 1994. The skills needed to spread the reform goals and sustain its
viability have been circumscribed to a handful of seasoned professionals. The recent part-time graduate
education programs have made a laudable, albeit insufficient, effort to upgrade a younger wave of
educators.



                                                    -8
During the early phase of the Basic Education Reform, with Bank and lOB support, the MEC made
notable progress in three areas of educational information management: (i) establishment of the SNEPE;
(ii) compilation of national education statistics through collection of data at the central, state and school
levels, and the creation of the UDEs; and (iii) initiation of a permanent structure for educational research
and policy studies. The availability of reliable data has greatly facilitated preparation of the new lOB and
World Bank-supported projects. However, the new systems were established rapidly, outpacing the
human capacity for analysis and planning. The regular use of statistical data is minimal at the central
level and depends on individual initiatives at lower levels. Useful studies are available but results are not
always applied; and SNEPE results are widely distributed but not well understood or incorporated into
teaching or training for teachers. At the school level, few directors use institutional planning and
evaluation instruments.

The MEC's Department of Planning and Statistics is the best equipped and has the most qualified staff. It
has made tremendous gains in gathering and processing sector data. However, the group still does not do
long-range planning and programming and is not included in sector policy decision-making. There is a
lack of coordination between the MEC's Planning and Administration departments when elaborating the
budget, as is the case in other social ministries. And in budget implementation, adjustments are made
through investment cuts, ultimately leaving a budget almost entirely dedicated to recurrent expenditures
with little flexibility for new investment.

Government Strategy

The Government of Paraguay (GOP) has consistently supported the education sector, and the incoming
Government has indicated its intention to maintain these investments to enable successful
implementation of the Basic and Secondary Education Reform Programs. It has pledged its support for
the proposed program in its Sector Policy Letter to the Bank (28 May 2003, see Annex 13). In addition to
significant national investments in education, the GOP has sought financing from the W orId Bank and
the IDB to support the reform programs and to initiate activities in pre-school and initial education.

The MEC is aware that efficiencies in spending will need to be gained in order to expand and improve
the quality of education at all levels. In this regard, the MEC is doing the following: (a) reviewing hiring
practices of teachers, directors and supervisors, as well as the organization of the administrative staff to
seek ways to increase efficiency, The MEC is preparing an amendment to the Education Law to allow for
better, more transparent hiring and promotion policies; (b) negotiating with the GOP a move to a vacant
Government building to unify its directorates under one roof. This would simplify communications, gain
efficiencies and generate significant savings from over twenty rented facilities; (c) consolidating the
results of a school mapping exercise and initiating micro-planning to make better use of existing facilities
and human resources. This should allow the MEC to achieve its goal of increaSing class sizes.

In the area of improved quality, the MEC is actively pursuing several initiatives: (a) increasing support to
state CDEs, UDEs and supervisors to further decentralize central-level functions and provide greater
support to schools. Pilots grew out of the MECES project in areas where originally planned activities
were not producing the desired outcomes. Initial positive results warrant expansion; (b) increasing the
use of diagnostic assessment mechanisms and seeking better ways to use the information in training and
resource allocation; (c) evaluating the demand-driven teacher training and supervision pilot with an eye
to expansion under this proposed program; (d) reforming the secondary school curriculum to make it
more relevant to the needs of the society (see Annex 2 Appendix for description of the new curriculum).
Secondary schools are currently reviewing the qualifications of their teachers to meet the needs of the
new curriculum. They are re-assigning teachers to cover new courses for which they are prepared and



                                                    -9
increasing the number of teaching hours for those teachers who are underutilized; (e) hiring teachers to
work in just one school (concentraci6n de carga horaria) to improve planning, resource sharing and
teacher-student relationships.

In the area of access and coverage, the MEC is doing the following: (a) exploring alternatives to increase
access of secondary education to rural and urban poor students; (b) initiating consolidation of Grade 7-9
students in hub schools (Escuelas Centro) in areas where these grades are now covered by secondary
schools. This will free up spaces to accomodate additional secondary students, and teachers whose
classes have moved may be reassigned, thus providing new student places without the additional expense
of hiring new teachers. This micro-planning process will be expanded using the recently updated school
mapping information carried out during project preparation.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed program aims to assist the GOP in achieving efficiency gains across the education system
and in launching the Secondary Education Reform program by providing financial and technical
resources for a set of strategic initiatives. These include: (a) improving educational management; (b)
improving completion rates by providing better quality teachers and school resources; and (c) introducing
new ways to meet the increased demand for secondary education, with a focus on targeting the poor. In
addition, the program emphasizes planning at every level of the education system as an indispensable
tool for quality, efficiency, relevance, productivity, accountability and modernization.

Improved management ofthe education system
There are two main sources of inefficiency in the education system. One is the lack of institutional tools
to properly administer its human resources. The other is a low student-teacher ratio, especially in the first
two cycles of basic education (18:1). The proposed program will address both these issues: (i)
consolidation of the existing personnel systems under the proposed program will reduce the current
duplication of systems and tasks, improve efficiencies and contribute to greater transparency, better
management of human resources, and tied administrative, planning and budgetary systems; Oi) more
efficient use of available infrastructure and human resources has the potential to provide the MEC with
significant savings (up to 11.6% of its annual budget if teachers were laid off; up to US$6.0 million
annually if one third of all retired teachers are not replaced - see Annex 4 for more details).
Micro-planning will assist in better distribution of resources. Since firing of teachers might generate
internal resistance and exacerbate conflicts with teacher unions, teachers could be redeployed to other
levels or positions (with training if necessary), including initial or adult literacy programs or new sections
of third cycle basic and secondary education. In this way, the MEC can respond to increasing demands
for education without increasing its budget.

The current decentralization process is also weak and poorly managed and financed. It needs to be
considerably strengthened to achieve the desired results. The state education councils (CDEs) have been
formed, but they do not receive the resources necessary to carry out their mandates, and the UDEs and
state supervision commissions work independently. An integrated and properly supported state education
administration is urgently needed. Under the proposed program, the UDEs and supervisors will be
unified with the CDEs under one roof and liaise with teacher training institutes (TrIs) to provide
comprehensive support to schools, based on student achievement results and school needs. This will
improve institutional capacity and quality of education. The sustainability of the reform programs, the
strengthening of central and local leadership, and successful decentralization call for a critical mass of
highly trained educators and better dissemination of sector data and information, to be supported under
the proposed program.




                                                   - 10
Better quality teachers
Good teachers are the key to implementation of a successful reform program. Thus, it is imperative to
improve teacher quality. TTIs are currently being evaluated under an IDB-financed project. This
proposed program will follow up on this initiative by establishing an official accreditation system which
controls quality and limits the flumber of institutes. The currently disjointed teacher training program will
be reorganized into a continuous system that links pre-service and in-service activities. This system
design will involve: (i) strict quality control of the programs offered, as opposed to the current low-level,
piecemeal certificate-oriented initiatives; (ii) the institution of development and motivational factors such
as scholarships, sabbatical years or semesters, leaming trips, and other useful awards, based on
performance results rather than personal preferences; and (iii) time allocation to teachers for continuing
professional activities. A certification process will also be established to monitor and promote teachers'
professional development.

Better qlUllity resources and better management ofthose resources at the secondary school level
Better pedadogical materials and equipment and stronger school-community connections will improve
the quality of secondary. schools. The proposed program will seek ways to capitalize on the parent
interest evidenced by the creation of CNACE and wide participation of ACEs in basic education schools
by introducing ACEs in secondary schools. This will give them a potential role to support the
improvement of student enrollment and school quality, enhance the nexus between school and society
and advance the Secondary Education Reform Program. Specifically, ACE members will be involved
with directors, teachers and students in the establishment of School Development Plans (Plan Educativo
Institucional - PEl). Training will be provided to all these stakeholders to create and carry out the PEls,
and all training, resource acquisitions, and infrastructure and hiring needs should be delineated in the
all-encompassing PEl. This will allow for improved identification of school needs, better planning and
more systematic use of physical and human resources at the local level.

More equitable access to secondary education
Paraguay has achieved near universal education at the primary level, and new IDB-funded programs are
addressing the needs of those who traditionally have been left out, namely the indigenous. However, the
success of the Basic Education Reform has created increasing demand for secondary education.
Microplanning will be supported under the proposed program to assist the Government in its
consolidation of Grade 7-9 students in hub schools (Escuelas Centro) and to identify and maximize
existing spaces for secondary students. In addition, new schools will be built in marginal urban areas
where demand currently exceeds supply. In rural areas and for working students, a more informal
modular approach will be established. capitalizing on programs initiated by NGOs such as SUMANDO
and Fe y Alegria. A scholarship program will provide opportunities to secondary students from families
in extreme poverty. Geographic areas with lower efficiency rates will be targeted (Le . populated areas
with low teacher-pupil ratios, where new enrollment would not require creation of new classes). This
combination of initiatives will enable the GOP to expand secondary enrollment and give opportunities to
students who otherwise would not have access to this level of education.

4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The Paraguay Education Reform Program consists of complementary strategies to design. assess and
implement system-wide improvements and initiate and expand actions in support of the secondary
education reform. The actions in Phase I will set the stage for Phase ll.

Through Phase L the GOP will: (a) consolidate the existing personnel systems and establish mechanisms
for more efficient and transparent hiring across all levels; (b) integrate and strengthen the state-level
CDEs, UDEs and supervision commissions (CDSs); (c) design and implement a social communications


                                                   - 11 
strategy to raise awareness of reform issues; (d) design and implement the leadership and teacher training
components; (e) design textbooks in line with the new secondary curriculum, and establish and assess
learning resource centers and science laboratories; (f) design and test establishment of School
Development Plans (PEls) and related social community projects, including the role of the ACEs in the
design and implementation of these instruments; (g) use microplanning to maximize use of existing
spaces and identify key areas for placement of scholarship recipients and alternative secondary programs;
(h) pilot and assess the scholarship program and establish a mechanism to guarantee its sustainability;
and (i) pilot and assess the alternative secondary education model and build prototype schools.

Through Phase IT, the GOP will expand and consolidate Phase I activities, making adjustments as needed,
to: (a) implant the new personnel management systems; (b) support the decentralization process through
continued strengthening of the state-level agents; (c) finalize teacher training activities; (d) extend
provision of learning materials, resource centers and laboratories; (e) boost the implementation of PEls
and social community projects; and (f) expand the scholarship and alternative secondary education
programs and finalize the construction of additional prototype schools.

The performance triggers that will be used to measure readiness to proceed with Phase IT of the APL are:

   Model for selection and contracting of personnel designed, approved by theMEC, and in use in at
    least 3 states (departamentos);
   Number of students per class increased from 18 to 20 in the first two basic education cycles and from
    25 to 27 at the secondary level;
   Certification and accreditation policies designed and approved by the MEC;
   Design of initial teacher training finalized, design and implementation plan approved by the MEC,
    and new program introduced in 30% of the official training institutes (5 institutes);
   50% of the PEls in place in selected schools (100 schools);
   At least 4,500 scholarships assigned, and a strategy established and approved by the MEC to assign
    funds exclusively for scholarships, thereby ensuring sustain ability of the program;
   Existing alternative secondary education programs evaluated; and modular program designed, design
    and implementation plan approved by the MEC, and program initiated on a pilot basis in 20
    locations.

Additional indicators that will be used to monitor project performance are presented together with these
performance triggers in Annex 1. All will be monitored through site visits, interviews with stakeholders
and beneficiaries, Ministry of Finance and MEC reports, project monitoring reports and annual
independent audits.

C.  Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost 

breakdown): 

To meet the stated development objectives, the proposed program consists of three main technical
components and a project management component to provide oversight and coordination of the program.
The institutional strengthening component is presented first, since the systems changes address the
overall education sector and will assist the GOP in achieving the sector-wide efficiencies that are
necessary to ensure sustainability of the program. The institutional strengthening activities are
concentrated mostly in Phase I to establish the proposed systems and pilot programs. Phase IT focuses
more heavily on expansion of the quality and coverage inputs that will be designed and tested in Phase I.




                                                  - 12
Component 1. Improved Tools for Planning and Management of the Education System.
(l.a) Improvement of system management capacity, including planning and management of human
resource, information, evaluation, and supervision systems at the central and state levels.
Improvements in these areas will enable more effective management of the education sector. This
includes: (i) integration of current administrative systems to track the hiring and professional
development of teachers and directors and facilitate better verification and monitoring of human resource
management processes for all education professionals. A certification system will be established to
monitor administrators' and teachers' professional development and career paths, and a new accreditation
system will monitor the quality of teacher training institutes (TTls) and control the number per region;
(ii) refinement and expanded application of the student achievement tests (SNEPE). further training to
the UDEs in the collection and analysis of sector data. and better use of data at all levels. Key to these
activities will be the successful integration of the COEs, the UDEs and the COSs. The supervision pilot,
which has focused supervisors' attention on pedagogical needs of teachers. will be expanded; and (iii) a
social communication system to share information on MEC reform plans. increase public awareness and
gamer greater support for the education reform.

(l.b) Human resource development, including upgrading ofteaching and leadership capacity. Human
resource development requires: (i) striking improvements in the teacher training program which will
reorient the current pre- and in-service teacher training, making it more demand-based and moving
towards a continuous program of professional development throughout the teacher's career; and (ii) the
expansion of a critical mass of well-educated professionals across the nation to uphold the ongoing
reform process. Postgraduate training will be provided for 100 active education leaders in key
professional areas.

Component 2. Secondary School Improvements
The second component focuses specifically on secondary schools with an eye to improving management
and quality. It should be noted. however, that some of the initiatives will eventually be adopted by
primary schools.

(2.a) Quality: Provision of didactic materials, equipment and training to secondary schools. At the
school level, the new secondary school curriculum (see Annex 2 Appendix for description of the new
curriculum) will be supported by the following: (i) newly designed textbooks in key areas; (ii) learning
resource centers (Centros de Recursos de Aprendizaje - CRAs) to provide a place for research and group
activities, and reference materials for teachers. These spaces will be open to the community and may also
be used by alternative secondary education program students; (iii) science and technology laboratories to
foster new approaches to teaching and learning science; and (iv) training for teachers in the adequate use
of the three afore-mentioned teaching/learning materials and modes. Quality inputs will be focused on
selected schools in five states during Phase I and expanded to additional states in Phase II.

(2.b) Community-Associated Management: Redesign of the institutional model for planning and
management through introduction ofschool development plans (PEls) and social community projects
(PSPs) with wider parentparticipation. The management of the secondary education reform will require
greater social participation and community ownership of schools. as follows: (i) the PEls will be
introduced in select schools as the key school planning instrument and reference point for decision
making, supervision and training. The PEls will be designed, implemented and assessed by stakeholder
representatives from the education community; (ii) to expand school interests and strengthen ties between
schools and their surrounding communities, the PSPs will reach out and will offer students learning
opportunities beyond the school walls. These formal connections are intended to plant the seeds of good



                                                  - 13
citizenship; (iii) the PEls, PSPs and other aspects of school life will be enhanced by informed
participation of parent associations (ACEs) at the secondary level. ACE members will be included in
training for the design and development of these instruments. Once again, Phase I will focus on certain
states.

Component 3. Mechanisms to Provide More Equitable Access to Secondary Education
The project aims to increase access to secondary education, paying special attention to students from
low-income families. The majority of these families live in rural areas, although recent heavier migration
to urban areas has created shortages in marginal urban areas as well. The focus of the program will be on
establishing innovative ways to access education, rather than constructing a host of new schools.

(3.a) Sustainable scholarship program for extremely poor students. In areas where secondary school
places are available, scholarships will be awarded to the neediest students. Six states will be targeted in
Phase I to assist the MEC in improving efficiency rates (measured by teacher/student ratios). A study has
identified those states where greater numbers of extremely poor students are currently enrolled in the
third cycle of basic education but, for economic reasons, might not be able to attend secondary schooL
Care wi1l be taken to ensure that the program is sustainable.

(3.b) Alternative secondary school programs for rural and working children. In rural areas, where
secondary schools are scarce and the population is dispersed, a new modular program will be established
to facilitate the teaching, learning and evaluation process. Five states will be targeted in Phase I. In
marginal urban areas, programs may also be piloted to give working youth the opportunity to study
outside the formal institutional structure. Teachers from the current teaching force will be selected and
trained as tutors for this program.

(3.c) Construction of prototype schools in marginal urban areas. Three prototype schools will be
constructed to showcase the new curriculum, use of materials and equipment, and teaching methods.
Sites have been selected in low-income areas where demand currently exceeds supply.




                                                  - 14 
 1. IMPROVED TOOLS FOR PLANNING AND                                8.86         33.4         8.52        35.5
 MANAGING OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
 I.a. Improvement of system management capacity
 I.b. Human resource development

 2. SECONDARY SCHOOL IMPROVEMENTS                                  8.40         31.7         7.57        31.5
 2.a. Provision of didactic materials, equipment and training
 2.b. Introduction of PEls and social community projects

 3. MORE EQUITABLE ACCESS TO SECONDARY                             7.80         29.4         6.82        28.4
 EDUCATION
 3.a. Sustainable scholarship program
 3.b. Alternative secondary school programs
 3.c. Prototype schools

 4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                              1.20         4.5         1.09   i
                                                                                                           4.5




2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Paraguay Education Reform Program has been designed to support changes required to gain
necessary efficiencies in the system and to reinforce the Government's Strategic Plan for Secondary
Education Reform. Relevant reforms will be carried out in the following areas;

Teacher hiring; The current teacher hiring and payment norms, which are tied to actual teaching hours,
have had a deleterious impact on teacher productivity, availability of teachers to students, fellow teachers
and directors, and affiliation of teachers with their school(s) and students. Improvements in the
coordination and transparency of hiring, as well as a proposal for a shift from hourly wage pay to hiring
for specific teaching positions will value teacher presence in a single school and his/her participation in
educational opportunities which are unfeasible under the current hiring system.

Teacher training: Dualistic, fragmented and reactive teacher training structures will be replaced with a
continuous and proactive system in two phases (initial and in-service teacher training) that are integrated
under the same conceptual framework. Initial teacher training institutions will be reorganized, and
in-service teacher training will be planned and monitored on a larger scale. Professional development,
specialization and even university (graduate level) programs fit into the proposed system, to be outlined
in the certification policy.

School-focused initiatives: A chronically centralized system is attempting to give schools more room for
local ownership and identity. The first steps were made under the Bank-financed MECES project through
the creation of CDEs, UDEs and CDSs, and transfer of funds and training for ACEs. To advance the
Government's decentralization process and improve school management, efforts must continue towards a
participatory process involving local leadership, an evolvement of the supervisors' role in line with the


                                                  - 15
current pilot, and enhancement of principals' and teachers' skills. The education community will express
its needs through the PEl, an instrument designed to spur a bottom-up approach to demand-based needs
in the system.

Secondary education access: Access to secondary education must be expanded and diversified. The
traditional secondary school model, which is undergoing curricular and organizational redefinitions, will
be complemented by other more flexible secondary education alternatives for those youth who live in
areas where traditional secondary schooling is not offered or who need to enter into the labor market.
Alternative modular, distance, evening and/or weekend modalities will be piloted and introduced on a
gradual basis, along with a scholarship program to provide opportunities to extremely poor adolescents.

3. Benefits and target population:
The Program will benefit stakeholders at many levels. As outlined in Annex 4, significant savings can be
gained through more efficient use of available infrastructure and human resources. These efficiency gains
will allow the MEC to commit more funds to investment expenditures, thus providing benefits across the
sector. Changes in the teacher training program and better quality control of TTIs through the new
accreditation system should improve the quality of current and new teachers, while the certification
process will offer clear professional development guidelines and opportunites. New teachers and some
88,000 current teachers will eventually be positively affected, although attention will be given first to the
12,000 public secondary school teachers.

Better monitoring and supervision at the state level, improved planning and management of resources at
the school level and stronger parent and community participation should foster greater efficiency in
school management and improved accountability. Support to CDEs, UDEs and CDSs will benefit at least
340 technical professionals across the country, and selected schools will receive funding to support PEls
(200) and PSPs (400) over the six-year Program. Some 1,200 ACE members (parents) will receive
training to participate in the PEls and PSPs (and will subsequently train some 48,000 of their peers),
thereby engaging more fully in school planning.

An estimated 100,000 new students will enter secondary education by 2010, in addition to the current
school population of 167,000, and all will be privy to improved quality of education as a result of
material inputs and better quality teachers. These include the 22,400 to directly benefit from the Program
(5,000 to enter new schools, 9;000 scholarship recipients and 8,400 enrolled in alternative education
programs). Furthermore, in a country with an overall school completion rate of just 24 percent (reduced
to 5 percent in rural areas), there are substantial rewards for completing secondary education. A
beneficiary of the expanded coverage of three years of secondary education generated by the Program
would increase hislher labor earnings over his/her working lifetime by approximately 35%.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project coordination and implementation arrangements
A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), already established under the recently closed Bank-funded MECES
project, will be responsible for project coordination, management and implementation. An Executive
Project Coordinator has been assigned by the MEC to coordinate project progress and will be the
principal link with the World Bank. The PCU will include the number of staff members gauged
necessary to carry out the coordination, procurement, financial management and accounting of the
project. Financial Management and Procurement specialists have conducted assessments and both
considered the respective arrangements to be acceptable. Capacity building of procurement specialists
will assist the MEC in establishing a procurement unit for all donor-funded projects under Phase n (see
Annex 6A for further details).


                                                   - 16
Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation
The project components will be executed technically by the respective MEC units, with oversight by the
PCU. Implementation of the project will be guided by the Project Administrative and Operational
Manuals and a detailed procurement plan. The implementing units will provide regularly scheduled
progress reports to the PCU. The PCU, in turn, will report project progress on a quarterly basis to the
Bank, according to agreed upon performance indicators.

Accounting, financial reporting and auditing requirements
The PCU will be responsible for the financial management of the project (including accounting, timely
submission of the Financial Management Reports -FMRs, annual audits and disbursements). To facilitate
disbursements, a Special Account will be established and managed according to Bank guidelines as
prescribed in the Disbursement Handbook. The project will be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
APL vs. traditional single investment loan: The Paraguay Education Reform Program was originally
conceived along traditional project lines. Three factors have led the project team to adopt the more
flexible APL. First, the structure of the program lends itself to a two-phase strategy, whereby policy
reforms and pilots are carried out in the first phase and expanded in the second phase. The second phase
will occur as a function of the first phase's preparation of systems and instruments. Second, clearly
established performance triggers give leverage to the MEC and the Bank to ensure that the agreed upon
activities, especially in gaining systems efficiences, are carried out. In this time of political instability in
Paraguay, this is an advantage over a series of smaller operations with cut-off points and no guarantee of
continuity in policies and actions from one project to the next. The APL approach confirms the GOP's
continued commitment for a long-term strategy to improve education. Third, with the financial
uncertainty facing Paraguay, the APL design offers the Government the possibility of initiating important
actions with funds to carry them through as they meet the established critical milestones, yet allows for
lower initial exposure and commitment fees.

Closer-to-school initiatives vs. centralized training and monitoring. The MEC's first inclination during
preparatory discussion was to rely again on the central level to carry out crucial training programs and
monitor program activities. However, the international trends are finding school-based initiatives more
highly effective. Thus, school-focused strategies have been recommended as the best means to meet local
needs and ensure more relevant training and inputs to schools. The project will support strengthening of
CDEs, specialized school and classroom supervision, continuous teacher training programs which are
more demand-driven by the PEls, expanded participation of directors, and greater parent and community
involvement.

Alternative programs to improve equitable access vs. building of new schools. After verifying the
access-related problems, the first reaction was to build new secondary schools, especially in rural areas.
A closer analysis, however, indicated a complex situation with a triple challenge: distance, cost and type
of institutional offering. In rural areas, existing schools are spread out, and enrollment also implies
untenable (including foregone opportunity) costs to the family. Moreover, the traditional schools offer
curricular and structural types of teaching and learning that do not match the students' needs and time
availability. Since the rural population is highly dispersed, investments in new school construction would



                                                    -17
not significantly improve access and would be a prohibitively expensive alternative. Hence. the decision
was made to design alternati ve distance education programs on a modular basis. offered in a less
bureaucratic environment and allowing for a more flexible schedule. This modality may also be piloted in
marginal urban areas for working and/or overage youth. Similar programs have been highly successful in
other countries in the region (see section D.3 on lessons learned).




                                                 -18 
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).




Bank-financed
Access and quality of former                                                           S                 S
secondary education - now upper
primary

Improved systems efficiencies and                                                      S                 S
better access and quality


Institutional strengthening of                                                         S                 S
secondary education
                                           l~eCorl<1aJry
                                                       Education Project
                                                   No. 3794-AR)

Quality improvement in high risk           IAt'gelltula Decentralization and           S                 S
secondary schools                          IImnrr'VPlmp.lnr of Secondary

                                           IEdlllcaltion and Polymodal
                                           IEdtuciilti(m Development
                                           IVrn"p,...t (Loan No. 3971-AR)



Improvement of quality and equity in              Secondary Education                 HS                 HS
secondary education                                 Improvement Project
                                                  No. 3883-CH)

Improved training and qualification of                                                 S                 S
teachers on site. at schools

       development agencies
Primary education reform - quality,
access and institutional strengthening


Teacher training and provision of          IStr'en~~he:nin:g of Bilingual
quality inputs for basic education         IMllcatlon-.IDH (92210C-UR)

Basic education reform - improved
quality of education system and
decentralized focus on schools
IP/DO Ratings:   (Highly Satisfactory). S (Satisfactory). U                 HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)




                                                      - 19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
   Political support and project ownership work as good predictors of outcomes. The overall political
    support and broad-based project ownership within the MEC carried the MECES project through
    periods of high instability. In fact, this was a key factor for its success at a time when every other
    Bank project in the portfolio was floundering. The MECES project also demonstrated the potential
    for creating demand for quality education and enhancing related accountability at the school and
    local levels through greater involvement of stakeholders. ACE members were given a small role in
    the project, but they expanded their own role, based on the initial opening to the school community
    and their own surge of interest in being more involved in the education sector. The unexpected level
    of participation of ACEs in school construction and the school-based innovative school improvement
    projects (PIEs) led to improvements in efficiency of resource use and quality. The proposed program
    has involved a large number of stakeholders during the preparation process and aims to involve an
    ever-growing number during project implementation, especially at the state and local levels.

   Critical mass of education leaders. As the Paraguayan Education Reform advances, and expected
    and unexpected obstacles and opportunities emerge, the need for a critical mass of highly trained
    leaders becomes crucial. The program intends to train 100 leaders from across the country to ensure
    informed leadership that extends beyond the core group that has been driving the reform program
    from Asuncion. Successful educational reform programs in Costa Rica (early 1990's) and EI
    Salvador (1997) were preceded by graduate studies or seminars at Harvard University for a select
    group of stakeholders. Recent education achievements in Brazil also can be largely explained by the
    upgrading of education leaders.

   Evaluation culture and mechanisms. Loosely controlled education investments have been replaced
    by evaluation mechanisms with accountability implications. The Santiago-based OREALC
    "Education Quality Laboratories" program has been pivotal in supporting evaluation agencies such
    as SIMCE (System for the Measurement of Educational Quality) in Chile, and UMRE (Educational
    Outcomes Measurement Unity) in Uruguay. The Indonesia PEQIP Project and the UNESCO
    27-country MLA (Monitoring Learning Achievement) exemplify good learning evaluation practices.
    The proposed program promotes tested evaluation and supervision strategies and builds on initiatives
    established during the previous Bank- and IDB-financed projects.

   Continuous teacher training and certification programs. The need for continuous teacher training
    programs has been advocated on a consensual basis worldwide for some time. Only a few systems,
    however, have put the idea into practice. Good lessons have been learned from the United States,
    where the concept has been widely applied, although the strategy (both for training and certification)
    varies from state to state. The ZINTEC (Zimbabwe Integrated Teacher Education Course) makes a
    point of providing teachers with relevant and articulated training programs, and the Uganda Teacher
    Development and Management System (TDMS) liaises with teacher training institutes to offer
    demand-based in-service training. In Paraguay, a successful MECES-sponsored pilot teacher training
    experience is being evaluated and will be expanded.

   Focus on schools as the impetus for change. Setting the school and the classroom (vis-a.-vis the
    overall system) as the reference point for student development and learning creates demand for
    quality education and enhances accountability. To focus teacher training and student projects at the
    school level, the proposed program incorporates lessons learned from the New Zealand School-based
    Management and its autonomous Board of Trustees, the Minas Gerais (Brazil) school-driven
    "Proqualidade" Project, the South Australia "Partnerships 21" model of local management whereby
    parents, teachers and the community work together to make sure that children succeed, and the


                                                  - 20
    Uganda Teacher Development and Management System (TOMS) which offers direct outreach
    support to teachers and school administrators through a decentralized network of Coordinating.
    Ce~tres. The proposed program's focus on change at the school level also builds on the success of
    MElCES' innovative school improvement projects, which achieved gains in quality by drawing
    together teachers, school managers, and community leaders to create innovative projects focused on
    local pedagogical issues.

   Targeting and inclusion. Formal resource equality does not necessarily translate into actual equality
    in school access and success. Since 1982, France has established zones d'education prioritaires
    (ZEP), where disadvantaged families receive additional funds, and schools are allowed freedom to
    innovate. The Indonesia Education Recovery Program succeeded with its student scholarship
    program. The Chilean education reform targeted financial and pedagogic resources toward the
    "P-900" school program with the poorest ten percent of school children. Background work for the
    proposed program has identified the extremely poor students who are currently enrolled in upper
    primary school but would not have the means to attend secondary school, and they will be targeted
    for the scholarship program. The new school sites have also been selected in poor marginal urban
    settings where overcrowding is occurring due to heavy rural-urban migration.

  Innovative ways to access secondary schooL New information and communication technologies
   have fostered cost-effective non-traditional secondary education modalities. The proposed project
   will adopt (and adapt) innovative delivery programs inspired in: (a) the time-tested Mexican"
   Telesecundaria" that covers some 800,000 students; (b) the more recent and UNESCO-awarded
   Brazilian "Telecurso 2000"; (c) the Malawi College of Distance Education which, in the 1980s,
   through three program modalities, expanded national secondary education enrollment by 171 percent;
   and (d) the flexible Norwegian "complementary" secondary education system combining theoretical
   and practical, school- and business-based education.

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Paraguay (GOP) has demonstrated its high level of commitment and support for
education in steady increases in the sector budget for the reform program, and in several ongoing
initiatives to improve efficient management of the sector and imprOVed quality and access to education,
as outlined in the Government Strategy (see Section B.2). The GOP was also highly committed to
ensuring the successful implementation and timely closing of the Bank-financed MECES (Secondary
Education Improvement) Project. The MECES project was highlighted as "the star projeCt" in a troubled
Bank portfolio, bringing improvements and innovations to the education sector. The GOP encouraged the
IDB to adopt several of MECES' trend-setting components into its own recent project. This success story,
which can only be explained within a framework of long-lasting strategic policies set by the GOP in
recent years, is solidly in place and has been strengthened by the appointment of committed MEC leaders
and technical staff.

Further indications of the GOP's commitment and efforts to promote broad ownership are evident in the
level of involvement of key stakeholders in the design of the Secondary Education Reform Program. The
MEC held two international and three national forums on the reform agenda over the last two years,
inviting the participation of international experts with extensive experience in secondary education
reform from Chile, Argentina (including the former Minister of Education), Brazil, France and Spain.
Once the proposals were established, an independent consulting firm carried out stakeholder meetings in
every state across the country to ensure agreement and commitment to the Strategic Plan for the reform
program at the state and local level. The proposed program is rooted in the Strategic Plan.




                                                 - 21 
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has a long history of commitment to financial and technical assistance to Paraguay and an
ongoing relationship with the MEC. A collaborative approach has yielded increased cooperation between
the Bank and a wide range of stakeholders, including teacher union and studenf association
representatives. The Bank's participatory style of working on missions has enhanced the MEC team spirit
and encouraged significantly greater collaboration among the MEC units themselves and with the PCU.

The Bank has carried out extensive sector work in secondary education and can provide best practice
examples of initiatives at this leveL Particular to this project, the Bank's team offers expertise and
familiarity with international secondary education reforms and school-based programs to improve
quality, particularly in Chile, Argentina and Brazil, as well as extensive knowledge of continuous teacher
training programs which are a main focus of the program to improve teacher quality at all levels of the
education system.

E.  Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.  Economic (see Annex 4):
  Cost benefit         NPV=US$9.7 million; ERR = 19 % (see Annex 4)
    Cost effectiveness
    Other (specify)
The main benefits of the Paraguay Education Reform Program will be the savings generated by a more
efficient allocation of students across the system, the improvements in the quality of secondary
education, and the increase in the access to this same education cycle. A more efficient allocation of
students will result from strengthening of the MEC's Planning Unit and strengthening of the leadership
and managerial skills of the educational system leaders, scholarship and alternative education programs,
and a social communications campaign. Greater access to secondary education (and, thus, higher
numbers of secondary education enrollees and graduates) brought about by the construction of new
schools and the scholarship and alternative education programs will make it possible for entire cohorts of
students to become more productive, get more qualified jobs and, ultimately, eam more in the labor
market. Similarly, quality improvements will lead to decreased drop-out and repetition rates which will
translate into savings in recurrent costs for secondary education.

The economic analysis attempts to quantify all these benefits, finding them significant. Benefits from a
more efficient allocation of students were calculated through a simulation on the total teacher wage bill
by increasing the average number of students per section in basic and in secondary education, using a
supply and demand model for education whose technical coefficients were calibrated to actual data for
the year 2000. The impact of several quality-enhancement interventions at the secondary level, such as
demand-based training of teachers, provision of equipment and materials for new and existing schools,
and of the strengthening of school management and school-community ties on educational achievement
in Paraguay, was estimated from education production function analyses. From regression analyses, the
program's impact on the average score on the national standardized test (SNEPE) for secondary students
was estimated. Regression analysis was also used to estimate the impact of an increase in the average
score of a standardized test on the promotion rate at the secondary level. An increase of the promotion
rate leads to savings in recurrent costs. The benefits from increased access required calculation of the
incremental earnings associated with secondary education and application of the discounted stream of
these incremental earnings to the new graduates produced by the program. The benefits analysis omits
some program benefits, since higher secondary enrollment will also bring a series of social benefits (such
as the increased social cohesion produced by enrolling youth prone to be involved in risky and anti-social
behaviors) which cannot be precisely quantified. Additionally, available data did not allow for an exact


                                                  - 22
estimate of "a quality premium" on secondary education earnings to all graduates. Finally, on the cost
side, the analysis attempts to estimate, as precisely as possible, the capital, recurrent and opportunity
costs of the projects.

The table below shows that the net present value (NPV) is US$9.7 million and the rate of return is 19%.
The results were checked for robustness to alternative values of the critical variables. In conclusion, for
Paraguay, the proposed Program is viable in economic terms.

                                    summaryofC osts andBenefiIts
            ;Benefits:                                                    PV (In US$ Million)
            'Increased efficiency due to reallocation of students                           24.7
            :Savings derived from quality-enhancing measures                                10.2
            'Increased access                                                               68.6
            Costs:
            !Investment costs                                                             (33.9)
            Recurrent costs                                                                (7.9)
            !Forgone income                                                               (47.4)
            !meremental Expenditure due to higher enrollment                               (4.6)
            NPV:
            I
                                                                                             9.7
            IRR:                                                                            19%
            APLINPV:                                                                         3.8
            APLIIRR:                                                                        15%



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR "" % (see Annex 4)
The main objective of the fiscal impact analysis is to provide a brief public expenditure review of
Paraguay's education sector and to assess whether the financial burden of the proposed program is
manageable. The expenditure review makes it possible to detect the priority given to education in
Paraguay through the analysis of the latest education budget estimations, and to detect any efficiency
issues through an analysis of expenditure composition, student-section ratios and unit costs. (Note that
student-section ratios are used rather than more standard student-teacher ratios since there are not reliable series
on full-time equivalent number of teachers at the secondary level. The student-teacher ratios calculated with the
unadjusted number of teachers give misleading estimates.) On the basis of the macroeconomic situation of
Paraguay and the latest education budget estimates, future education bUdgets were then projected and the
impact of the programs' capital and recurrent costs on these budgets assessed. The analysis covers the
two-phase APL, with each phase to be carried out over three years with a cost per phase of US$26.5
million.

Fiscal Impact:
The analysis shows that the proposed program should not add a significant financial burden on the
education budget. On average, total project costs will amount to 2.5% of the total education budget in the
implementation period. On the recurrent side, the incremental recurrent costs produced by the program
will represent about 0.8% of the projected recurrent education budget. If the program could achieve the
estimated savings of US$6.0 million per year due to increasing the average number of students per
section, the present value of this stream over 20 years would cover 97% of the present value of the
recurrent and investment costs of the program during the whole implementation period (see Annex 4 for
more details on the calculations of the estimated savings and present value of recurrent and investment costs).



                                                        - 23
In 2002, the fiscal situation considerably worsened. Due to a significant contraction of GDP (-2.2%) that
eroded tax collection, and a large local currency devaluation (51%) that increased the fiscal liabilities in
local currency, the fiscal situation in 2002 has posed a serious challenge to the Government of Paraguay
in the short run (2003-2004) to gather the necessary counterpart funds. Given this situation, the Bank has
agreed to a 90% share of financing for Phase I of the Program, rather than the 75% that otherwise would
be in place. This exception has been made taking into account the Borrower's commitment to education,
as shown by the increasing priority the country has given to the sector. The share of Bank financing will
be adjusted to 75% for the second phase of the Program, assuming a positive economic growth rate in
2004 and 2005.

3. Technical:
The GOP's education reform strategy is supported by the IDB at the basic education level and by the
World Bank at the secondary level. World Bank funding will address systems inefficiencies, thereby
creating opportunities to garner more funds from the sector budget for future expansion of actions to
improve quality and access at the secondary level. The reform has sought input from internationally
successful interventions to shape the design of this Program (see Sections D1 and D3 for more details).

Improvements in the design of the teacher training program and establishment of certification and
accreditation policies are based on successes in other countries of the region, such as El Salvador.
Accreditation of tertiary institutions in Paraguay has also demonstrated better control in the quality of
education at this level. Demand-based teacher training has improved school and student performance in a
host of countries around the world.

Curriculum parameters for secondary education were revised during program preparation and are being
disseminated as the 2003 school year begins (see Annex 2 Appendix for description of the new
curriculum). Provision of equipment, materials and training will be in line with the new curriculum, and
the prototype schools will serve to model full application of the new curriculum (including a longer
school day to make room for additional subjects and extracurricular activities not contemplated in the
previous curriculum).

The introduction of the school development plans (PEls) to improve school quality, planning and
management is based on positive experiences in Brasil and other countries in the region. Increased
interest from parents will be further encouraged through their participation in the elaboration of the PEls
and the social community projects (PSPs). The PEls will drive state and central MEC support to schools
through more informed allocation of resources and training, and supervision will monitor progress in
meeting PEl objectives.

The scholarship and alternative education programs are designed to target low income students who
might otherwise lack access to this level of schooling. The combination of programs addresses the access
problems, especially in rural areas. Many rural youth have been excluded either from secondary
schooling or from a curriculum that fits their needs. By offering alternative secondary education services
with more flexible curriculum and organization, the proposed program is responding to the real demand
of these and working students.

4. Institutional: 

 Current institutional arrangements in Paraguay's public education system impede the GOP's ability to 

 improve quality and manage resources effectively. Of primary concern are the following issues (see 

 Annex 11 for more details): 

   Highly-centralized decision making and allocation of resources and little support to the decentralized 



                                                   - 24




                                                                                                               _i 

    state units (CDEs, UDEs and CDSs) or to the local school communities;
   Inadequate information and communications technologies for proper management at the central and
    state levels;
   Dispersed physical organization, distribution, and location of workplaces at the central and state
    levels;
   Disjointed management of human resources (duplication of information systems and processes);
   Poor organization of teaching responsibilities (hourly wages for teaching time);
   Poor sharing of information and weak planning capacity at all levels;
   Supply-driven delivery of supervision and training with little regard for schools' needs for improving
    quality.

 With the support of the Paraguay Education Reform Program, the GOP will address these institutional 

 concerns in the following ways: 

  CDEs, UDEs and CDSs will be expanded and strengthened, and necessary changes will be made at
    the central level to enable more effective implementation of the decentralized state organizational
    structure. These units will receive computer equipment and training.
  School community members (directors, teachers, students and parents) will receive training to
    elaborate school development plans (PEls). The PEls will guide allocation of resources to schools,
    and early identification of needs should improve timely provision of those resources. The work of the
    CDEs, UDEs and CDSs will be oriented towards assisting schools in carrying out their PEls.
  Government spaces will be rehabilitated in order to consolidate the CDEs, UDEs and CDSs under
    one roof in each state. The GOP is also seeking ways to bring central MEC offices together, and the
    program will provide equipment for key units to establish tied information systems.
  Current administrative systems will be integrated in order to track the professional development of
    teachers and directors and facilitate better verification and monitoring of human resource
    management processes for all education professionals. A certification system will be established to
    monitor teachers' professional development and career paths.
  A new resolution (currently being drafted) will improve the coordination and transparency of hiring
    at all levels, and hiring will be based on specific teaching positions.
  UDEs will receive further training in the collection and analysis of sector data, and better use of data
    across the education system will be promoted through training at the school, state and central levels.
    Ongoing micro-planning will be supported to assist the MEC to more efficiently distribute its
    resources and plan for expansion of the secondary education system.
  School demands will be laid out in the PEls which will determine the development objectives and
    resource needs (for teachers, of didactic materials, upgrading of spaces, etc.). Supervision will be
    guided by the established objectives of the PEl, and CDSs will liaise with teacher training institutes
    to better orient training to teachers' needs.
4.1  Executing agencies:
The MEC is ultimately responsible for the implementation of both phases of the program and will
establish the policy guidelines for the overall Secondary Education Reform Program which the proposed
program will support.
4.2 Project management:
The PCU will be responsible for managing the program. Many of the' staff members who worked with the
PCU for the previous Bank-funded project have remained and are knowledgeable about Bank practices
and procedures. They have demonstrated strong capacity to lead the implementation of this type of
program.




                                                  - 25
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out of (i) the proposed organization and staffing of the
PCU within the Ministry of Education and (ii) the program implementation arrangements; both were
deemed satisfactory. The PCU will be responsible for carrying out and/or exercising quality control over
all procurement activities and technical coordination, planning, monitoring and evaluation. A Project
Administrative and Operational Manual will include procurement procedures agreed to during
negotiations. No special procurement problems are anticipated during implementation. The PCU will
receive technical assistance from the Bank on procurement procedures.
4.4 Financial management issues:
On the basis of the Paraguay Financial Management Risk Assessment (FMRA) and the relevant country
portfolio performance in financial management issues, the financial management team concludes that the
present financial management arrangements will be adequate when the PCU has completed an action
plan wbich includes: (a) the completion of a detailed Chart of Accounts; (b) a FMR format to be
approved by the Bank and (c) an established accounting system, acceptable to the Bank. These activities
are conditions for project effectiveness. To satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements, the arrangements should be capable of correctly recording all transactions and balances,
supporting the preparation of regular and reliable financial statements and safeguarding the entity's
assets. They are subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank. This assessment concludes that
inherent risk is high due to country considerations discussed in the assessment, and the control risk
related to the proposed program is average. This suggests that loan implementation should be
accompanied by a close supervision plan that allows early detection of financial management issues and
ensures the proper use of the program funds in compliance with Bank fiduciary responsibilities.
S. Environmental:                        Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no major issues. Sites have been selected and Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) have
been carried out for the new schools, following the established environmental guidelines for LAC.
Consultation meetings were carried out in each of the communities, and documentation regarding the
meetings was included in the EIAs. There are no resettlement issues for any of the selected sites.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                  Date of receipt of final draft: 03110/03
Draft EIAs were received for each site and were reviewed by QAT. Supplemental information was
received in March in response to QAT's comments and was reviewed and approved.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The MEC and the Ministry of Public Works carried out the environmental assessment together in
consultation with local architects and community leaders. Public meetings were held at each site to
describe the intentions of the MEC to construct a new school. In all cases, this news was met with
enthusiasm. In the cases where the land belongs to the municipality, arrangements have been made for
the transfer of the land to the MEC. Public announcements were posted in the MEC and in the national


                                                  - 26
newspapers regarding availability of the EIA reports to the general public.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A matrix describing the issues to be considered and a Construction Guide have been developed. They
will be included in the bidding documents for all infrastructure components, including new school
construction and rehabilitations. Guidelines have also been established regarding the proper procedures
for discarding hazardous materials generated in the science laboratories and will be reviewed in teacher
training sessions. These documents are available in the Project Files.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Opportunity costs for youth are high, and poor families are reticent to send their children to school. The
scholarship program should compensate to some degree. Special care will be made to target extremely
low income students for this program. Alternative secondary education services will offer urban and rural
working students the option to attain secondary schooling outside normal class hours. In rural areas, this
type of program should especially benefit girls, since they are the least likely to travel to traditional
schools. Education opportunities for secondary education for girls are fewer, since they are expected to
carry out household chores (including caring for younger siblings) and families keep them home for
safety reasons. It should be noted that even with these restrictions, female enrollment is equal to male
enrollment. The program does not include specific actions to address the indigenous population for two
reasons: firstly, the lOB is supporting a pilot program for indigenous communities at the basic education
level. Secondly, the majority of indigenous children do not study beyond primary school, and the
proposed program's quality and access activities focus on the secondary level.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The MEC involved a wide range of stakeholders in discussions regarding the secondary education reform
agenda, as indicated above (see section DA). They established the national Coordinating Commission for
Secondary Education Reform (CCREM), including members from the National Council for Education
and Culture (CONEC), and three technical sulrcommittees (Human Resource Development, Finance, and
Technical Bachillerato and Professional Studies). The CCREM and the MEC organized the national and
international forums and hired a local NGO to carry out the later discussions with key stakeholders in
each of the states. The technical assistance needs for project preparation were developed in discussions
with the CCREM and its technical sulrcommittees, the national Senate's Chair for the Commission of
Education and Culture, the CONEC, and teacher union and student representatives. The results of the
consultation have been incorporated into the design of the proposed program. Thus, the Government has
shown strong initiative to break away from its traditional centralized deciSion-making approach and gain
wide consultation and support for the Secondary Education Reform Program. This approach is expected
to continue during project implementation, especially in the design and validation of pilots and new
approaches to teacher training and supervision.

Also significant was a beneficiary consultation that was carried out in November 2002 with teachers,
teacher trainers and students in teacher training institutes. Some 1,205 questionnaires were distributed to
stakeholders across the country, and the team interviewed an additional 26 key education experts and 22
parents. The results of this consultation are guiding the design of the continuous teacher training program
and will be considered in the creation of the certification policy for professional development of teachers.
The initial training proposal has already been discussed in six workshops with a total of 300 people.




                                                  -27 
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Several NGOs have already been involved in the organization of the forums and stakeholder discussions.
Other NGOs participated in project preparation studies. The NGO SUMANDO is likely to be involved in
the design of the alternative education model, since they have had success in introducing informal study
programs to rural students and can offer good technical assistance and advice. Another group that is
becoming more visible and has been key in promoting the reform program is the student-run MOBE
(Movimiento por la Obtenci6n del Bienestar Estudiantil). They produced a bulletin regarding secondary
level statistics and goals for the reform and have actively distributed information to schools, NGOs and
the general public. MOBE was involved in discussions that shaped the proposed program design, and
MOBE members will surely be involved in the elaboration of the PEls and the PSPs at the school level.
Finally, the parent-run CNACE has had a voice in project design. and the program supports their
participation in the PEls and PSPs as welL
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The GOP has committed to defining a mechanism for guaranteeing sustainability of the scholarship
program as a condition for moving from Phase I to Phase n of this APL Program. The social community
projects (PSPs) will also address social development issues, and they will be selected and monitored by
the state councils (CDEs), to be strengthened under the program.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will track the percentage of rural and marginal urban youth in the relevant age group who
have access to alternative modes for secondary education as a result of the distance/open learning
program. This will be disaggregated by sex. A targeting mechanism will also be used to ensure that low
income students are selected for the scholarships.




   Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
   Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)
   Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
   Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)
   Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)
   Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)
   Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A Construction Manual has been adopted by the MEC, as described above, and will be the guide for all
civil works components.




                                                  - 28
F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainabi6ty:
The strong political support from the GOP and the extensive stakeholder consultations that have gone
into the proposed program's design should ensure its sustainability. The GOP, including the
President-elect, Congressional leaders, and MEC and Ministry of Finance high-level officials, have
demonstrated their support to the education sector over time, in spite of frequent political and economic
instability. Active stakeholder involvement in many of the components, the training of 100 leaders from
across the country and use of the social communications program should help to solidify the education
reform process. Expansion of decentralized responsibilities, such as collection and analysis of education
statistics, supervision and teacher training, and increased community participation through the PEls and
PSPs, will allow stakeholders to influence sector management and implement and sustain the program's
initiatives. The GOP has committed to seeking ways to sustain the scholarship program, which will
require long-term recurrent investment, and the establishment of a viable mechanism to do this is a
condition for moving from Phase I to Phase II of the APL Program. Finally, efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of sector planning and management should make the program financially
viable over time.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
                    Risk                       ....... Risk Aatmg    ...     ..Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
                                                                                                                         !
Political support for revised hiring                    S            Strong commitment by MEC and MOF
practices and decentralized efforts falters.                         personnel to achieve cost savings (a resolution
                                                                     for revised hiring practices was drawn up
                                                                     during preparation of the program, under
                                                                     PHRD grant funds). High level of enthusiasm
                                                                     and awareness among stakeholders for
                                                                     decentralization. Social communications
                                                                     campaign to further increase awareness.

TTl trainers and administrators and                    M             Participatory design of system and appropriate
state-level administrators (CDSs and                                 training.
CDEs) do not understand or fully support
the continuous training system (concept
and operation) and their roles in
implementing it.

Planning and management aspects of the                 M             Social communications campaign. Appropriate
PEl are not fully understood                                         training in participatory workshops.
by all stakeholders (directors, school
community leaders, ACE members and
state-level administration) and are not
incorporated into daily school activities;
lack of commitment to this new strategy.

Established scholarship procedures do                  S             Careful initial analysis of qualified students by
not target the students most qualified and                           state, followed by administration of indirect
with greatest need.                                                  income tests and horne visits by trained
                                                                     personnel.


                                                     - 29
    Political support for scholarship program           M            Social communications campaign. Visibility of
    dwindles and outside (e.g. private)                              students to private sector through PSPs.
    interests are not harnessed.                                     Long-term commitment of UlP (Uni6n
                                                                     Industrial Paraguaya) to education sector.

    From Components to Outputs
    Lack of dialogue, collaboration and                  S           Program design includes high-level
    feedback between central MEC Planning                            participation, training and communication
    and Financial Directorates, and between                          strategies to gain collaboration among levels
    central, state and school levels to achieve                      and improve capacity for planning, and
    integrated strategies and systems.                               collection and analysis of data.

    Union leaders fail to endorse new                   M            Project's social communication campaign will
    certification and teacher hiring                                 address the issue to secure union and other
    procedures.                                                      political support. Involvement of union
                                                                     representatives in design of processes.

    Elaboration of new texts is not in line             M            Training for central, state and local staff on
    with revised secondary curriculum and                            selection and use of texts, and meetings with
    expected methodologies.                                          textbook providers for quality control.

    Overall Risk Rating                                 M
                                                                         ..
Risk Rating - H (High RiSk), S (Substantial Risk). M (Modest RiSk), N(Neghglble or Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
One potential controversial aspect regards the shift in responsibility of planning and identification of
resource needs to the school level through the school development plans (PEls). Local definition of needs
and solutions obviate the current top-down, centralized decision-making processes regarding in-service
teacher training. supervision criteria and allocation of resources. The PEls have the potential to generate
strong local ownership of schools, which conversely diminishes power at the central level. This possible
controversial aspect can be addressed by: (a) training and awareness at the central and state levels of
advantages of receiving input and proposals from the local level to guarantee better quality education and
make more informed decisions and (b) raising the accountability level of schools based on the collective
decisions made by the school community on the entire PEl design and implementation process.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
      Fully staffed Project Coordinating Unit, according to the specifications satisfactory to the Bank.




                                                      - 30
   Financial management system in place, approved by the Bank, including chart of accounts detailing
    componenrl subcomponents/categories, FMR format and accounting system.
   Final drafts of Administrative and Operational Manuals, with special attention to grant processes.
   Contracting of an independent auditor.
   Bidding documents for civil works (QCBS) approved by the Bank.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]



H.  Readiness for Implementation
    1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the 

          start of project implementation. 

    1. b) Not applicable.

o 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
       project implementation.                                       
    3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory 

       quality. 

[Z] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):

Some PCU staff have been hired, and TORs have been drafted for remaining personnel. Draft manuals
have been reviewed by the Bank and corrections and additions are being made. Specifications for the
chart accounts, FMR format and accounting system have been established. The final designs must be
approved by the Bank prior to effectiveness. Final copies of the manuals and final staffing. and a draft
Project Implementation Plan will be approved by effectiveness. The procurement plan for the first year of
implementation of Phase I will be submitted to the Bank as well.

I. Compliance with Bank Policies
    I. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
    2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies 

       with all other applicable Bank policies. 





                                                                                 ~4'T
                                          arito H. Garcia                         Axel van Trotsenburg
                                         Sector Manager                           Country Director




                                                    - 31 
                                       Annex 1: Project Design Summary 

                                PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM 



                                          Indicators:           Sectorl country reports:        (from Goal to Bank MissiOln)
Increase coverage and quality     Increased number of           Evaluative reports              Sufficient economic, social
of secondary education to         secondary school graduates in                                 and political conditions exist
augment the supply of             the labor market                                              to assure continued support for
qualified labor                                                                                 expansion and improvement of
                                                                                                education.



Program                                                                     reports:            (from Purpose to Goal)
                                  OveraU Program Indicators 
                                  to be achieved by 2009

Assist the Government of            Number ofstudents per             School census and                 will is sustained and
Paraguay (GOP) in its effort to      class increased as follows        mapping, household       stakeholders are committed to
achieve necessary efficiency         from 200 1 to 2009:               survey data, SNEPE       the goals of the education
gains across the system              - Basic education, 1st and        reports, Project         reform program
                                     2nd cycles from 18 to 25          monitoring reports
                                       Basic education, 3rd
                                     cycle from 29 to 30
                                     - Secondary education
                                     from 25 to 30

Introduce initiatives to            Gross completion rate for
enhance quality and expand           secondary increased from
equitable access at the              76% in 2001 to 82% in
secondary level                      2009
                                    Results of the SNEPE (2
                                     year of secondary)
                                     improved as follows:
                                     - Language and Spanish
                                     Literature from 51 to 60
                                     by 2009
                                     - Mathematics from 36 to
                                     46 by 2009
                                    Dropout rate for
                                     secondary reduced from
                                     11% in 2001 to 7% by
                                     2009
                                    Net enrollment rate for
                                     secondary increased from
                                     33% in 2001 to 44% in
                                     2009


Project Development                           Impact                      reports:              (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                        Indicators:
Improve management and                      for Phase I - to be    Ministry of Finance and MEC The GOP supports Phase n.
efficiency of the system, and              by 2005.                annual reports, and Project based on the success of Phase
educational outcomes and                                           Monitoring Reports          I, and management and



                                                            - 32
equity in opportunity at the   Implementation Indicators for      efficiency measures will
secondary education level      Component 1:                       enable the generation of
                                                                  necessary resources.
                                  Model for selection and
                                   contracting of personnel
                                   designed, approved by
                                   MEC and in use in at least
                                   3 states (departamentos);
                                  Number of students per
                                   class increased from 18 to
                                   20 in the first two basic
                                   education cycles and from
                                   25 to 27 at the secondary
                                   level;
                                  Certification and
                                   accreditation policies
                                   designed and approved by
                                   MEC;
                                  Design of initial teacher
                                   training finalized, design
                                   and implementation plan
                                   approved by the MEC,
                                   and new program
                                   introduced in 30% of the
                                   official training institutes
                                   (5 institutes).

                               Implementation Indicators for
                               Component 2:

                                  50% of the PEls (100) in
                                   place in selected schools.

                               Implementation Indicators for
                               Component 3:

                                  At least 4,500
                                   scholarships assigned, and
                                   a strategy established and
                                   approved by the MEC to
                                   assign funds exclusively
                                   for scholarships, thereby
                                   ensuring sustainability of
                                   the program;
                                  Existing alternative
                                   secondary education
                                   programs evaluated; and
                                   modular program
                                   designed, design and
                                   implementation plan
                                   approved by the MEC,
                                   and program initiated on a
                                   pilot basis in 20 locations.




                                                          - 33
     Output from each                  Output Indicators:               Project reports:                (from Outputs to Objective)
     Component:
    l. IMPROVED TOOLS FOR                                               Project reports; site visits:
    PLANNING AND                                                        MEC human resource reports
    MANAGING THE
    EDUCATION SECTOR:

    l.a. Improvement of system         l.a.l. Revised selection and                                     Political support for revised
    management capacity,               hiring models applied in three                                   hiring practices and
    including planning and             states;                                                          decentralized efforts remains
    management of human                l.a.2. National education map                                    constant
    resource, information,             100% updated;
    evaluation, and supervision        l.a.3. Database (schools,
    systems at the central and state   human resources, statistics,
    levels                             SNEPEJstudent performance)
                                       100% integrated
                                       l.a.4. Baseline on student
                                       performance (2nd course)
                                       established;
                                       l.a.5. Accreditation and
                                       certification systems designed
                                       and approved by MEC; and
                                       l.a.6. Social communication
                                       model agreed upon and in
                                       operation.

    l.b. Human resource                 l.b.l. New initial teacher                                      TIl trainers and
    development, including             training curriculum approved                                     administrators and state-level
    upgrading of teaching and          by MEC and introduced in 5                                       administrators (CDSs and
    leadership capacity                public teacher training                                          CDEs) understand and fully
                                       institutes;                                                      support the continuous training
                                       l.b.2. All of the 240-hour                                       system (concept and
                                       teacher training programs for                                    operation) and their roles in
                                       upgrading of current teachers                                    implementing it
                                       completed; and
                                       I.b.3. All tOO participating
                                       education leaders with
                                       master's degree program
                                       completed.



    2. SECONDARY SCHOOL                                                 Project reports; site visits;
    IMPROVEMENTS:                                                       furniture and equipment
                                                                        inventories; scheme and
                                                                        record of work

    2.a. Quality Inputs                2.a.l. All the 1st-year
    Provision of didactic              secondary education texts
    materials, equipment and           designed; and
    training to secondary schools      2.a.2. At least 75 CRAs and


                                                                 - 34



_________________________________________                                                                         ---~I-                 1.1
                                25 science laboratories in
                                operation.

2.b. Management                 2.b. I. 100 PEls in operation                                     The planning and management
Community-associated            in participating schools;                                         aspects of the PEl are fully
Strategies                      2.b.2. 100 social community                                       understood
                                projects (PSPs) implemented                                       by all stakeholders (directors,
                                or under implementation; and                                      school community leaders.
                                2.b.3. ACE participation in                                       ACE members and state-level
                                PEl design in 50% of the                                          administration) and
                                selected secondary schools.                                       incorporated into daily school
                                                                                                  acti vities, and all are
                                                                                                  committed to this new strategy

3. MECHANISMS TO                                                  Project reports; site visits;
ENSURE EQUITABLE                                                   interviews with scholarship
ACCESS TO SECONDARY                                               recipients
EDUCATION

3.a. Sustainable scholarship    3.a.l. Scholarships assigned to                                   Procedures established to
program for extremely poor      at least 4,500 students;                                          target the students most
student.,                       3.a.2. A mechanism                                                qualified and with greatest
                                established to ensure                                             need.
                                sustainability of the program.
                                                                                                  Political support for program
                                                                                                  remains constant and outside
                                                                                                  (e.g. private) interests are
                                                                                                  harnessed

3.b. Alternative secondary      3.b.l. Existing alternati ve
school programs for rural and   secondary education programs
working children.               evaluated (SUMANDO, Fe y
                                Alegria);
                                3.b.2. Modular program
                                designed and initiated on a
                                pilot basis in 20 locations.

3.c. Construction of prototype 3.c.I. Three prototype schools
schools in marginal urban      constructed and fully
areas.                         operational using new
                               secondary curriculum




Project Components I            Inputs: (budget for each          Project reports:                (from Components to
Sub-components:                 component)                                                        Outputs)
1. Improved Tools for           US$8.90 million                                                   Fluid dialogue, collaboration
Planning and Managing tbe                                                                         and feedback between central
Education Sector                                                                                  MEC Planning and Financial
I.a. Improving system                                                                             Directorates, and between
management capacity                                                                               central, state and school levels
Lb. Developing human                                                                              to achieve integrated strategies
resources                                                                                         and systems




                                                             -35
                                                           Union leaders endorse new
                                                           certification and teacher hiring
                                                           procedures.

2. Secondary School               US$8.40 million          Adequate elaboration of new
Improvements                                               texts in line with revised
2.a. Providing quality inputs                              secondary curriculum and
2.b. Adopting new                                          expected methodologies
socia-community management
strategies                                                 ACEs achieve same high level
                                                           of participation in secondary
                                                           schools as has been achieved
                                                           at basic education level

3. Mechanisms to Ensure           US$7.80 million
Equitable Access to
Secondary Education
3.a. Providing scholarships for
extremely poor students
3.b. Offering alternative                                  Alternative education program
secondary school programs for                              curriculum and delivery
rural and working children                                 strategy are relevant to
3.c. Operating prototype                                   students' interests and needs
schools in marginal urban
areas under new curriculum.

4. Project Management             US$1.20 million




                                                    - 36
                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                         PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM

This is a refonn-oriented Program. It is designed to assist the Government of Paraguay (GOP) in its
efforts to achieve necessary efficiency gains across the whole education system, and to apply new
mechanisms and instruments to redesign and strengthen secondary education. Gradual decentralization of
responsibilities and improved integration of a three-level system (central. state/departmental and
local/school) will help to improve flow of information and planning and management capabilities, and
will avoid current duplication of actions and reduce the dependency of schools on central-level
decision-making. The incipient decentralization process initiated under the MECES project has already
shown tangible evidence at the state level of possibilities for imprOVed quality of education. This process
will be strengthened. and training will be provided to orient state-level actions to better support schools.
At the secondary school level. the Program seeks to link the schools within a more integrated system
through collective planning and implementation. The end result will be greater community participation
in the education process and improved quality of learning and teaching. This Program is divided into two
Phases. Phase I will be described and costed below. Phase II will consist of implementation of systems
and expansion of pilots following evaluation of Phase I results.

By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$8.90 million
  IMPROVED TOOLS FOR PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT OF THE EDUCATION
  SYSTEM. This component seeks to improve the efficiency of the system. It will strengthen the
  national education sector by redesigning. focusing and supporting key institutional units involved with
  macro aspects of systems planning and management. This component looks at the education system as
  a cohesive whole.

Subcomponent l.A. - Improvement of system management capacity.

Objective. This subcomponent will develop or improve the skills and procedures needed to transfonn a
centralized and slow-moving bureaucracy into a decentralized and dynamic system by: (a) building
structures and organizational tools to generate macro and micro planning. management and supervision
capacity; (b) establishing the accreditation and (c) the certification systems; (d) supporting student
performance evaluation and (e) promoting social awareness and ownership of the education reform
program.

Indicators and targets. Compliance with component objectives for Phase I will be assessed by the
following:
     (a) selection and hiring models applied in three states;
     (b) national education map 100% updated;
     (c) database (schools. human resources, statistics, SNEPElstudent performance) 100% integrated
     (d) baseline on student perfonnance (2nd course) established;
     (e) accreditation and certification systems designed and ready to implement; and
     (f) social communication model agreed upon and in operation.

Management, Planning, Information and Supervision. Improvements in these areas will enable more
effective management of the education sector. The first key is improved management of human
resources. This comprises integration of current administrative systems to track the professional
development of teachers and directors and facilitate better verification and monitoring of human resource



                                                  - 37
management processes for all education professionals. Ties to the financial system and the regulatory
process for opening/closing schools will allow for better planning strategies and mechanisms for
assigning and promoting personnel within the system. Studies and stakeholder consultations carried out
during the first year of Phase I will shape the new administrative model and the development of
compatible information systems, and will be followed by dissemination of financial and human resource
management handbooks, including a description of the teacher hiring process. Simultaneous Updating of
the school mapping will enable future planning and better use of existing physical and human resources.
Workshops will be conducted for: 300 professionals on new management models; 300 school directors
on planning and statistics management; and 50 central Ministry of Education (MEC) personnel, 300 state
level professional and 46 State Statistical Unit (UDE) technical staff on analysis of statistical data for
micro-planning. Rehabilitation of Govemment-owned buildings in each state, where necessary, will
accommodate the State Education Councils (Consejos Departamentales de Educacion -CDEs), the State
Statistical Units (Unidades Departamentales de Estadistica - UDEs) and the State Supervision
Commisions (Comisiones Departamentales de Supervision - CDSs) under one roof to provide for a more
school- and leaming-oriented supervision organization. A study tour to visit the CREDEs in Ceara, Brasil
will assist in better defining this integrated state model. The activities of this sub-component will be
carried out under the leadership of the MEC Planning, Statistics and Information Directorate, in
coordination with the Secondary Education and the Management and Finance Directorates.

Certification. In line with efforts to track the professional development of teachers. a certification
process will be designed. The preliminary proposal will be discussed with participants in six regional
forums. An executive MEC resolution will make certification mandatory. New teachers will not be
allowed to enter the teaching force without certification. and current teachers will require certification for
promotion. The distinctive function of certification is to ensure that each educator has completed
accredited preparation (pre-service) or professional development (in-service) programs. The initial
certification must be renewed periodically. In the context of a continuous training system (see below), a
professional development plan agreed upon with the school will specify the training program required in
a given time period. Certification planning and design is a prime responsibility of the Teacher Training
Directorate in coordination with the Educational Development Directorate.

Accreditation. The accreditation system will be designed in Phase I and applied in Phase II. The
objective of the system is to assure excellence in initial teacher preparation. It seeks to ascertain and
verify that each teacher training institution has the required academic, organizational and financial
quality and sustainability profile. This stems from the proliferation of private teacher training institutes
(TTIs) that have arisen over the last few years, outpacing the actual need for newly trained teachers (118
TTIs: 39 public and 79 private). Through initial and periodic reviews, accreditation standards will be
applied to institutions and programs to check compliance with quality levels deemed to be acceptable,
meaning that these institutions and programs are effectively training teachers and other school personnel
to adequately function in the required credential areas. TTIs that do not pass will have two years to
improve their programs and to reapply. Non-accredited TTIs will not be recognized or supported by the
MEC. The design and planning process will be led by the MEC Teacher Training Directorate in
coordination with the Educational Development Directorate.

Student Performance Evaluation (SNEPE). The SNEPE will continue the student performance
evaluation work started in 1995 under the Bank-financed MECES project. Its main task will be to
establish a baseline for future assessment of project impact. This will be accomplished by instrument
validation in the first year and formal assessment during the second year of 24,000 2nd-year secondary
students in the areas of language, mathematics and critical thinking. Quantitative and qualitative analysis
of the results will be disseminated through: (a) individual school reports and (b) community reports



                                                   - 38
including results by subject matter, strata. competencies and state. Reports containing the aggregate
results will be shared during meetings attended by parents, students, principals, supervisors. teachers and
regional authorities. This process will contribute to qualify the education community for participation in
school planning and the related accountability process. The MEC Educational Development Directorate
oversees SNEPE activities.

Social Communication. To foster positive attitudes toward education (particularly the secondary
education reform program) and encourage wider support of educational reform initiatives, the MEC will
carry out a public awareness program involving schools, teachers. students, education professionals,
parents, community, media, businessmen/women, politicians, and society at large. Consultants have
designed a National Education Communications Plan (NECP) specifying the use of a variety of media,
networks and events with information and participation-enhancing purposes to reach a diversity of
stakeholders. A Central Technical Team, responding directly to the Minister of Education. will be in
charge of implementing the NECP.

 Financing. The subcomponent will finance:
  Planning: Consultants, training, equipment, furniture, software, printing and vehicles;
  Certification: Technical assistance, regional workshops, pilot equipment and materials;
  Accreditation: Technical assistance and validation workshops;
  Evaluation: Consultants, test design and application, equipment, dissemination of results;
  Social Communication: Consultants, assistant training, media messages, printing, dissemination
    process, workshops.

Subcomponent l.B. - Human resource development: upgrading leadership and teacbing capacity

Objectives. This subcomponent addresses the quality of human resources necessary to lead the education
reform system-wide and to carry on higher-level teaching activities. It will: (i) design a continuous
teacher training program conceptually embracing both the initial and in-service teacher training
segments, and train secondary school teachers; and (ii) implement a graduate program tailored to upgrade
a select body of education professionals and leaders.

Indicators and targets. Compliance with the component objectives will be assessed by the following:
    (a) new initial teacher training curriculum applied in 30% of public teacher training institutions (5
    institutes);
    (b) 100% of the 240-hour teacher training programs for upgrading of current teachers completed; and
    (c) 100% of participating education leaders with master's degree program completed.

Continuous Teacher Training System (CTTS). The CTIS process will be managed by the Teacher
Training Directorate, and comprises: (a) design of the Continuous Teacher Training System; and (b)
upgrading of secondary school teachers and other educators.

Design of the Continuous Teacher Training System

Initial training. The initial teacher training curriculum and programs will be adjusted to fit the concept of
continuous learning and professional development. A group of 15 (of 41 public) teacher training
institutes (TTIs) will be selected to serve as leaders of the new initial secondary teacher education,
starting with five in Phase I (five additional TTIs will focus exclusively on in-service secondary teacher
training). The selection criteria will be outlined in the Operational Manual. These TIls will be
strengthened with Learning Resource Centers (CRAs), libraries and training. Some 250 teacher trainers



                                                   - 39
will receive year-long training to update content and pedagogical knowledge, and approximately 170 of
them will extend these refresher courses for six additional months. Prior to official approval, the new ITI
curriculum proposal will be discussed in regional workshops. Studies by the teacher trainers will be
published under the Project.

In-service training. Conceptually, in-service training is part of the continuum of professional
development. A consultant will assist in designing the CITS, relying on the preparatory study conducted
during project preparation. The final version of the CTTS will stem from a participatory process
involving state and school professionals. The in-service CTTS will incorporate the following steps: (a)
admission to the profession according to new teacher hiring procedures; (b) upon inception the incoming
teacher wiJ] be assigned an experienced tutor; (c) the demand-based training proposals launched by the
school development plans (PEls) are grouped by state; (d) based on the demand, each state consolidates
the annual teacher training program; (e) monitoring and follow-up mechanisms must be created at every
school and state; and (f) teaching performance and compliance with CTTS and certification requirements
must lead to either career-linked compensation/promotion or motivational awards.

Training of Secondary School Educators

Secondary school teacher training. Secondary school teachers will be trained to improve teaching and
learning outcomes. A total of 12,270 teachers with diverse academic backgrounds are currently teaching
in public secondary schools, which corresponds to 75.5% of the secondary school teachers nationwide
(16.240 total). Their current profile varies from college training for secondary education to a secondary
education diploma. To respond to this diverse situation, five ITIs will be selected to offer a variety of
programs designed to improve the diversity of needs identified below:




                                                  - 40
        PUBLIC SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS: NEEDS and PLANNED TRAINING

 GROUP     NUMBER       CURRENT                                UPGRADING NEEDS
                        SITUATION
                                         Add        Raise       Update         Match        Complete a
                                         teacher    subject     professional   subject      higher educ.
                                         training   matter      development    matter and   teacher
                                                    training                   training     training prog.
                         Non-univ.
                         higher educ.
    A         7.064      teacher                                  X                X
             (57.6%)     training for                           24Ohrs.
                         secondary ed.
                         Non-univ.
                         higher educ.
    B          744       teacher           X             X                        X
             (6.1%)      training for    150 hrs.    350
                         basic educ.                hrs.
                         University
    C        2.296       non-teaching      X           X                          X
           (18.7%)       degree          800 hrs.   200hrs.
                         Highered.
    D        800         degree in         X          X                           X
           (6.5%)      i pedagogy.       200hrs.    800 hrs.
                         Secondary
    E        1,365       education                                                X            X
           (11.1%)      diploma.                                                            4.800hrs

Other educators' training. In addition to teacher training, the secondary education refonn will require
fundamental changes in attitude and skills in all the education professionals involved. To this end, there
will be: (a) five workshops designed to strengthen the state education councils and the supervision sector;
(b) a 22-day long seminar for 100 state and central professionals to train them as leaders to work with
schools on the new fonns of school management and supervision. design and implementation of the PEIs,
the social community projects and the CRAs; and (c) bi-annual workshops for 1,700 school principals
and 300 supervisors to train them on the new, participatory and learning-driven managerial skills and
techniques associated with the PEIs, CRAs. social community projects and collaboration with parent
associations (ACEs).

Graduate Leadership Program. This program will train 100 key education leaders from across the
country. It will be managed by the MEC Teacher Training Directorate and the Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU) and will be fully implemented during Phase I. Participants will be selected from a variety of areas
and wiU be assigned to one of the five following programs of study: (i) teaching and learning. (ii)
learning and infonnation technologies, (iii) planning. (iv) management and (v) policy. The program
comprises: (a) an initial II-month core program in Paraguay with support by international experts; (b) an
II-month diversified phase, with possible study in a foreign university; and (c) a final seminar in
Paraguay. Two participant groups of approximately 50 each will attend this fun-time two-year study
program. The degree will be conferred by one of the participating universities. The selection criteria for
the participants is outlined in the Operational Manual.

 Financing. The subcomponent will finance:
  Continuous Teacher Training design: technical assistance to refine pre-service curriculum and
    structure; organization of the in-service programs; workshops with national partners and international



                                                     - 41 
    experts; CRAs and libraries for five TTIs.
   Training of Secondary School Educators: training workshops and seminars, consultants for training
    programs, technical assistants, module writing and printing, monitoring and follow-up activities.
   Graduate Leadership Program: living/transportation expenses in Paraguay; air ticket, housing
    abroad, acquisition of books and laptop, and thesis preparation and printing.


Project Component 2 - US$8.40 million
SECONDARY SCHOOL IMPROVEMENTS. This component will focus on improvements in
qUality and management of secondary schools by: (a) improving their performance standards through the
provision of selected quality inputs for teaching and learning in line with the new secondary education
curriculum (see the Appendix of this annex for a description of the new curriculum); and (b) increasing
their efficiency and relevance through institutional planning mechanisms, school-community projects and
energized community involvement.

Subcomponent 2.A. Quality Inputs - Provision of didactic materials, equipment and training to
secondary schools

Objective. This subcomponent seeks to improve secondary school teaching performance and enrich the
classroom and school environment with support instruments for better teaching and learning outcomes.
New teacher training strategies are emphasized along with the provision of textbooks, learning resource
centers (CRAs) and science laboratories.

Indicators and targets. Compliance with the component objectives will be assessed by the following:
    (a) 100% of the lst-year secondary education texts designed; and
    (b) 40% of the CRAs and science laboratories in operation (75 CRAs and 25 labs).

The subcomponent will be implemented jointly by the MEC Educational Development Directorate and
the Secondary Education Directorate, with increased participation by the schools and the State Education
Councils (CDEs).

Textbooks. Traditionally, the MEC does not provide texts for secondary students. This significant and
first-time event in Paraguay will start in Phase I with the design and introduction of 20% of the textbooks
and related materials planned for the two-phase program, including: (a) textbooks in the areas of Natural
Sciences and Social Sciences; (b) modules for Language and Literature, Mathematics, Arts and Physical
Education; and (c) orientation handbooks on textbook selection, use and local development. Textbook
production includes: (a) discussion of reform-referenced criteria and curriculum content with publishing
houses and private designers, a lesson learned from the MECES Project; (b) preliminary textbook design;
(c) a three-step discussion of preliminary versions; (d) selection of the best textbooks identified in the
process; (e) bidding for and printing of selected textbooks; and (f) distribution of the textbooks. Design
and selection will take place in the first year, bidding and printing in the second year, and distribution
and use starting in the third year. Teacher training on the best use of the textbooks is an integral part of
the teacher training subcomponent.

Learning Resource Centers (Centro de Recursos de Aprendizaje - CRA).The Project will equip and
furnish 75 CRAs of four different types. The CRA has redefined the school library and has become the
multi-media school response to the widespread incorporation of new information technologies into the
teaching and learning process. In the reformed secondary schools, the CRAs will be designed to: (a) work
as a research extension of the classroom, the most resourceful learning environment available at school;



                                                  - 42
(b) strengthen and expand young readers' interests; (c) support teachers' need for specialized infonnation
and references; and (d) serve as an information and cultural center for students, parents, families and the
school ct>mmunity. A study tour to the United States will assist in establishing the specifications for the
model CRAs. New spaces will be built for 15 CRAs and rehabilitated for 60, as specified below:

                                                      .
             LEARNING RESOURCE CENTERS 7S CRAs - Ilm plementation b T
                                                      I            ,y l"ype
    CRA!ype                        Planned features                             Phase I units
                 The secondary school CRA paradigm. Its diversity      3 CRAs (of 5 by end of Phase
        A        of materials, room layout and management model        ll) in the new prototype
                 will set the new standards.                           secondary schools.
        B        Learning resources for secondary schools with         12 CRAs (40% of total 30 by
                 500-student shifts. New space to be provided.         end of Phase  m.
        C        Learning resources for sec. schools with 300          24 CRAs (40% oftotal 60 by
                 student shifts. Light physical uplift needed.         end of Phase  m.
        D        Learning resoun::es at smaller secondary schools.     36 CRAs (40% of total 90 by
                 Available spaces to be reconditioned for CRAs.        end of Phase  m.
Science and technology laboratories. Two kinds of science and technology laboratories will be
acquired: (a) state-of-the-art laboratories for the three new prototype secondary schools; and (b) 25
science kits for the schools with Type B CRAs (see above). The three more ambitious laboratories will
serve as models for demonstration, teacher training and possible expansion. The flexible and portable
kits, on the other hand, will help develop a "hands-on" approach of science teaching and learning which
focuses on daily life science and environment. Their features were identified upon careful comparison of
a diversity of experiences. Teacher training is the key condition for adequate and effective use of these
two teaching/learning strategies. Both models will undergo a careful evaluation to assess their
comparative advantages in tenns of relevance and learning results.

Financing. The subcomponent will finance:
  Textbooks: acquisition of books and modules, teacher training, handbook to guide book selection and
    use, textbook generation by teachers, consultants;
  Learning Resource Centers: acquisition of visual and information equipment, library books,
    construction or rehabilitation, study tour, operation handbook, monitoring and evaluation,
    consultants;
   Science and technology laboratories: acquisition of laboratories and kits, teacher training,
    monitoring and evaluation activities.

SubcoDlJ)Onent 2.B. Management - Community-Associated Strategies

Objective. This subcomponent focuses on school management, societal links and community
participation as key conditions for school relevance and efficiency. Modem managerial approaches will
be expressed through the School Development Plan (PEl) and meaningful beyond-school learning
mechanisms will be promoted through social community projects. The local sense of ownership will be
supported by more informed and actively involved parents (ACEs). This builds on successful
participation of ACEs at the basic education level.

Indicators and targets. Compliance with the component objectives will be assessed by the following:




                                                  -43
    (a) 50% of PEls (100) in operation in participating schools;
    (b) 25% of social community projects (100) implemented or being implemented; and
    (c) ACE participation in PEl design in 50% of the selected secondary schools.

This subcomponent will be implemented by the MEC Educational Development Directorate in close
coordination with the Secondary Education Directorate, the COBs and the secondary schools.

School Development Plans (Plan Educativo Institucional - PEl). This subcomponent will support the
design and implementation of 100 PEls at a unit cost of US$2,5OO. The PEl is a multi-year participatory
planning instrument whereby the school defines its mission, goals, strategies, priorities, educational
targets, teacher training needs, and specific projects. Its objective is to: (a) develop a school-wide process
and culture of educational planning and local identity and empowerment aimed at improving school
quality, efficiency and relevance; and (b) serve as a school-focused basis for educational planning at the
state level. Approximately 60 central and state professionals will be trained as PEl design and monitoring
experts, responsible for training school staff in PEl design and implementation. The school preparation
process begins with a diagnosis phase, which underpins the strategy and goal formulation, and the
operational aspects. This process calls for parents to playa more direct role in school management
decisions affecting their children, and for civic and business leaders to bring in their concerns and
expertise. Collectively designed, the PEl becomes the reference point for school management,
accountability and performance evaluation. Each. year a PEl-based annual school management plan is
spelled out.

Social Community Projects (Proyecto Socio-Productivo - PSP). This subcomponent will provide
resources, on a competitive basis, for schools to design and implement 100 social community projects at
a unit cost of US$2,5OO. The PSP is an activity directly involved with the education and learning process.
The ultimate purpose of the PSP is to act as a citizenship initiation process of youth into work, business
and community tasks such as social and environmental projects, organized visits to industries and
processing plants, work shadowing, fellowships with public or private offices, and the like. Such
school-initiated projects will motivate students to put into practice cooperative attitudes and address
community needs through the application of knowledge, skills and personal solidarity values. This
educational strategy borrows from the experience Paraguay has gained since 1994 from similar
industry-associated projects with technical secondary school students. School representatives, including
students, will be trained to design the social community projects to respond to educational purposes and
local interests.

Parent Associations (Asociacion de Cooperacion Escolar - ACE). This subcomponent will prepare at
least 24,000 parents to actively cooperate with schools and support the education reform. They will be
trained by 600 ACE leaders who, in turn, will have been tutored by 56 state-level ACE promoters trained
by experts in community organization and mobilization. Secondary schools will benefit from the
MECES-sponsored experience amassed by ACEs at basic education schools. Since their 1996 creation,
the establishment of the National Commission of ACEs (CNACE), and their recent inclusion as members
of the CDEs, the ACEs have been acclaimed as a turning point in the history of school-community
relationships in Paraguay. A 2001 MECES-financed study (Experiencias Significativas de las
Asociaciones de Cooperacion Escolar-ACEs. Asunci6n: MEClISFJMECES, 2001) indicated that ACEs
have: (a) shaped a new school-community cooperation model closer to educational processes and results;
(b) redefined the concept of the education community to include not only parents but other social,
business, religious and political leaders; (c) translated participation into active ownership attitudes
toward "our school"; (d) become tangible evidence of local identity and initiative and less centralized
dependency; and (e) added societal support to school leadership and management transparency.



                                                   - 44
 Financing. The subcomponent will finance:
  Schoo~ Development Plans: Technical assistance, operation handbook design and printing, training
     of state trainers, school training workshops, PEl grants, monitoring visits;
  Social Community Projects: Consultant, technical assistants, operation handbook. training
     workshops, project selection, PSP grants, monitoring visits;
  Parent Associations: Consultant, operation handbook, training guides, posters, training of school
     leaders, training of school parents, monitoring visits.

Project Component 3 - US$ 7.80 million
MECHANISMS TO PROVIDE MORE EQUITABLE ACCESS TO SECONDARY EDUCATION.
This component aims to increase access to secondary education, giving preference to students from
low-income families. The majority of these families live in rural areas, although recent heavier migration
to urban areas has created shortages in marginal urban areas as well. The focus of the program will be on
establishing innovative ways to access education, rather than constructing a host of new schools, since
rural populations are dispersed and school construction would be costly. Strategies include supply and
demand-based initiatives, namely: (a) a scholarship program for extremely poor students, (b) an
alternative education program and (c) prototype schools in marginal urban areas to alleviate
overcrowding in those areas.

Indicators and targets. Compliance with the component objectives will be assessed by the following:
    (a) At least 4,500 scholarships assigned, and a strategy established to ensure sustainability of the
        program;
    (b) Existing alternative secondary education programs evaluated, and modular program designed and
        initiated on a pilot basis;
    (c) Three prototype schools constructed and fully operational.

Subcomponent 3.A. Sustainable scholarship program for extremely poor students.

Objective: This subcomponent is designed to increase the completion rates of extremely poor youth.
Rural students show school completion rates of only 5%, and out-of-school youth between the ages of 13
and 18 make up 46.4% of the first quintile. The program will target this group in six states.

Scholarships for secondary school students are new in Paraguay, and the program will be introduced
gradually. Lessons can be drawn from programs in El Salvador, Brasil and other countries in the region
to enable timely establishment of the program. In this way, the first cohort of 1,000 students will have
graduated by the end of Phase I. Another 5,000 will have received a scholarship to initiate their
secondary education studies (2,000 in the second year and 3,000 in the third year). Initial identification of
numbers of extremely poor students in each state indicate an appropriate focus of the program in San
Pedro, Caaguazu, Itapua, Alto Parana, Guaini and Central during Phase I. Household surveys and census
data indicate high levels of poverty in these states, coupled with low efficiencies evidenced by low
student-section ratios. Students who are currently enrolled in the last year of basic education and who fall
within a pre-deterrnined income bracket will be invited to apply for a scholarship. Administration of
indirect income tests and home visits will assist in the selection of the scholarship recipients. Full
selection criteria is outlined in the Operational Manual.

Students will receive an initial amount of US$20 equivalent to cover tuition fees and purchase of
uniforms and school supplies. They will receive a subsequent amount of US$18 equivalent each month
for ten months during the first year of secondary school, and US$28 equivalent monthly during the last
two years. This increase is due to the projected earnings potential of youth their age. All funds will be


                                                   -45
sent directly to the students' homes. Since this is considered a recurrent cost, support for this
subcomponent will decline, especially in Phase II. One key to its success will be the establishment of a
mechanism to ensure sustainability over time. Identification and establishment of this mechanism is a
trigger condition for moving from Phase I to Phase II of the APL program. This subcomponent will be
implemented by the MEC Secondary Education Directorate in close coordination with secondary
schools.

Financing. The subcomponent win finance: technical assistance to finalize the program design and
establish evaluation criteria of the program; training of 100 professionals to carry out the application of
tests and home visits; printing and distribution of the operational manual and other related materials;
operating costs and the scholarships.

Subcomponent 3.B. Alternative secondary school programs for rural and working children.

Objective: This subcomponent aims to provide more informal, flexible opportunities for students to
attend secondary education. Rural and urban working youth will be targeted. This subcomponent has the
potential to revolutionize secondary education through student-oriented, hands-on teaching and learning,
a concept much talked about but rarely implemented in traditional schools.

In rural areas, where secondary schools are scarce and the population is dispersed, a new modular
program will be established to facilitate the teaching, learning and evaluation process. San Pedro,
Cordillera, Caaguazu and the Central states will be targeted for these interventions during Phase 1. In
marginal urban areas of Asunci6n, programs may also be piloted to give working youth the opportunity to
study outside the formal institutional structure.

The first year will be dedicated to learning more about programs in the region and establishing the design
for the program. Technical professionals will travel to Brasil and Colombia to witness successful
implementation of similar programs, and an evaluation will be carried out of programs in Paraguay
(namely SUMANDO and Fe y Alegria). Teachers from the current teaching force will be selected and
trained as tutors for this program. Twenty pilot programs will be carried out in Phase I for some 600
students. This will be expanded to 260 more classes in Phase II. This subcomponent will be implemented
by the MEC Secondary Education Directorate in close coordination with the Distance Education
Directorate.

Financing. The subcomponent will finance: technical assistance to finalize the program design and
establish evaluation criteria for the program; study tours; training of 60 teachers; acquisition of education
materials kits; printing and distribution of training materials and operating costs.

Subcomponent      3.e. Construction of prototype schools in marginal urban areas.
Objective: The prototype schools serve a dual purpose. They will demonstrate the application of the new
curriculum, use of materials and equipment, and innovative teaching methods. At the same time, they
will be constructed in low-income areas where demand currently exceeds supply.

The first three schools will be built in Caaguazu, Fernando de la Mora and Luque. These locations were
selected using poverty indexes and school enrollment data. Sites have been identified and community
meetings have been held. Environmental impact assessments have been carried out, and it has been
determined that no resettlement issues exist for these sites. The schools will give the MEC the
opportunity to showcase the new curriculum, both in terms of the new technologies for teaching and



                                                   - 46
learning; and in the revised timetable. This comprises the traditional four-hour school day every day and
an additional half-day two days per week. Each school will have the capacity for 1,000 students, 500 in
each sh!ft, thereby providing additional spaces for 3,000 students in Phase I of the Program. This
subcomponent will be coordinated by the MEC School Construction Directorate with input from the
Secondary School and Education Materials Directorates on the design and equipping of the schools.

Financing. The subcomponent will finance: technical assistance to establish the architectural designs;
civil works; school furniture and equipment.

Project Component 4 - US$1.20 million
PROJECT MANAGEMENT. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will coordinate the design,
management and evaluation of the Program activities at the central, state and school levels and will be
responsible for ensuring timely implementation of the Program.

The PCU will report directly to the Minister of Education and will coordinate activities with the various
MEC Directorates involved in carrying out Program components and subcomponents. PCU staff will also
liaise directly with CDEs, UDEs, CDSs, school directors and ACEs as appropriate. Staff include a
combination of administrative and technical professionals, especially in the areas of finance and
procurement. An important change over the MECES Project is the assignment of each component or
subcomponent to a MEC Directorate. This should reduce the number of people hired under the Program
and should improve the sustainability of the Program.

Financing. The subcomponent will finance: key positions. an annual external audit, office equipment
and supplies, and operating costs.




                                                  - 47
                                           ANNEX 2: APPENDIX
                    An UPDATED SECONDARY SCHOOL CURRICULUM
The Paraguayan secondary education curriculum stems from the national system reform and has been
carried out gradually over the past decade. A three-phase process took place. First, the lower section of
the six-year secondary education (the three-year educacion secundaria bdsica) merged in 1994 with the
existing six-year primary education program to create a nine-year basic education program; second, the
three-year upper secondary education level adopted the title "Educacion Media" but maintained its
24-year-old curriculum; and third, the curriculum was redefined in 2002 into the current structure to meet
and anticipate societal and development needs. The 1998 General Education Law established the key
structural changes.

The secondary education (Educaci6n Media) curriculum consists of Scientific and Technical
baccalaureates (bachilleratos), which share an initial seven-area basic plan and then branch into
modalities and optional plans. Whereas the Scientific baccalaureate emphasizes communication and arts,
the Technical baccalaureate subdivides into three modalities: Industrial, Services and Agrarian, all
further specified into fourteen specialties. The optional plan is open to local decisions and designed to fit
students' demands. Value-laden or instrumental dimensions, such as critical thought, citizenship,
environment, gender and computer science, permeate the curriculum structure. In addition, vocational
education is geared to the production of goods and services. Social community projects will help students
apply their knowledge and skills across the programs, and other inputs under this proposed Project will
benefit both programs under the shared basic plan.

The programs have been redesigned with wide participation from the education community and involved
MEC specialists, university scholars and international consultants. These programs are open to teachers'
feedback and a continuous improvement process, so that teachers feel and behave as active program
re-creators. The evaluation is largely oriented toward identifying competencies rather than highlighting
isolated bits of knowledge or information.

Paraguay is attuned to the Latin American context. Regional similarities were found in terms of
curricular structure and program design and duration (see table below).

                 Secondary Education: Percentage of Time Assigned per Area in the 

                                  d            
                      Common StUly PIan of L atm Am'  encan Ssystems (2002)

    Area           Language/      Math!          Social         Physical        Other Areas    Total
                                                 Sciences                                       (%)
    /System        Commun.        Natura! Sci.                  Education
                                                                                                          !

    Argentina           36            27             27              5             5             100      I
  . CostaRica           28            33             24              5            10             100      i
    Paraguay            30            35             25              5             5             100      I
    Peru                25            21             27              6            21             100      I
    Uruguay             26           44              18              6             6             100      I
    Source: Universidad Cat6lica de Asuncion, "Proyecto de Revision y Desarrollo de los Curricula de la
    Educacion Media," Diciembre 2002, Vol. I.




                                                     - 48
                                    Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                           PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM


                                                                           Local          Foreign         Total
                    Project Cost By Component                            US$million      US$million     US$miliion

  1. Improved Planning and Management of the System                               5.77          2.55               8.32
  I.a. Improvement of system management capacity
  l.b. Human resource development
 2. Secondary School Improvements                                                6.26           1.21              7.47
  2.a. Provision of didactic materials, equipment and training
  2.b. Introduction of PEls and PSPs
  3. More Equitable Access to Secondary Education                                 5.51           1.46              6.97
  3.a. Sustainable scholarship program
  3.b. Alternative secondary school programs
. 3.c. Prototype schools
  4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                         1.16            0.04           1.20
  Front End Fee                                                                 0.00            0.2e           0.20
    Total Baseline Cost                                                        18.70            5.46          24.16
     Physical Contingencies                                                     0.41            0.28           0.69
     Price Contingencies                                                        1.49            0.16            1.65
                                                                     1
I
                                               Total Project Costs             20.60            5.90          26.50
                                                         Front-end fee                          0.00               0.00
                              Total Financing Required                    20.60                 5.90              26.50:


                                                                           Local          Foreign         Total
                     Project Cost By Category                            US$miliion US$miliion          US$million
    Goods                                                                       8.89        3.03               11.92
    (a) Computers, furniture, lab equipment, printing materials
    (b) Textbooks and library books
    (c) Vehicles
    Works                                                                         2.46          1.88              4.34
    Consulting Services                                                           3.16          0.19              3.35
    (a) Firms
    (b) Individual Consultants
    Training Services                                                             2.54          0.60              3.14
    Secondary Education Grants                                                    2.91          0.00              2.91
    (a) Student Grants
    (b) Institutional Development Grants for PEls and PSPs.
    Operating Cost                                                              0.64            0.00            0.64
    Front-end fee                                                               0.00            0.20            0.20
                                                                     1
                                              Total Project Costs              20.60            5.90           26.50
                                                      Front-end fee                              0.00           0.00
                                        Total Financing Required           20.60              5.90             26.50




                                                   - 49
                            Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                          PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM

In Paraguay, the main benefits of the program are: (i) the savings generated by a more efficient allocation
of students across schools in the educational system as a whole. This increased efficiency will result from
strengthening of the Ministry of Education's Planning Unit and strengthening of the leadership and
managerial skills of the educational system leaders; (ii) higher quality of secondary education which
leads to an increase in efficiency at this level. This increased efficiency (lower repetition and dropout
rates) is reflected in savings in recurrent costs in the secondary level; and (iii) the increased number of
secondary graduates that are reflected into higher future earning streams. The analysis attempts to
quantify these benefits as well as estimate the total costs of the program (including capital, recurrent and
opportunity costs), to produce measures of net total gain for the country.

Summary of Benefits and Costs:

1) Benefits from a more efficient allocation of students across schools in the education system.

A more efficient allocation of students across schools could potentially generate significant savings in the
Paraguayan education system. In the first two cycles of the basic education system, the average number
of students per section is only 18. In the third cycle of basic education, this average increases to 29
students per section. In the three-year cycle of secondary education, the average number of students per
section is 25. Simulations done with a supply and demand model for education in Paraguay show that the
total expenditure in teachers' salaries is quite sensitive to the average number of students per section. The
model used to run the simulations was created during this project preparation process, and its technical
coefficients were calibrated to actual data for the year 2000. These simulations tell us that by increasing
the average number of students per section to 28 in the first two cycles of basic education, and to 30 in
the third cycle of basic education and in secondary education, the potential total savings would be
equivalent to 11.7% of the total budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) in the year 2000.
III Considering the 2000 budget of the MEC in US$. the total savings in this ideal situation would be of

US$44.8 million in teachers' salaries in one year.

The mechanisms contemplated under the Program to increase efficiency by re-allocating students are: (i)
micro planning to be carried out by the MEe's Planning Unit, allowing for rationalization of existing
infrastructure and human resources at all levels and in all the education cycles; (ii) training schemes
targeted to strengthen the leadership and managerial skills of leaders in the education system; (iii) a
social communications campaign to illustrate to the general population the savings that can be generated
and used for other sector activities with good planning and the high opportunity cost of opening schools
and sections with no proper planning; (iv) a scholarship program targeted to popUlation in extreme
poverty that will increase the demand for education mainly in rural areas, where there are higher
inefficiencies; and (v) a distance secondary education program also targeted to rural areas that will
provide an alternative for secondary education to scattered population in certain regions of the country.

All the measures contemplated in the program will provide technical blueprints and incentives to
re-allocate students and teachers across schools to increase efficiency. However, for the potential savings
to take place, the MEC would need to reduce the payroll bill. This situation might generate internal
resistance and exacerbate conflicts with teacher unions. A strategy to mitigate this risk is to not replace
the teachers who retire. The current Education Law mandates retirement of all teachers with more than
25 years of service. If enforced, the retirement of teachers with no replacement may reduce by at least



                                                   - 50
                                                                                                                 ill
9.4% the teachers' wage bill in the MEC over the next six years without major conflicts with unions.

Even the decision of no replacement of retired teachers could be a strong assumption, considering the
pressure of newly graduated and unemployed teachers. For our baseline scenario, we will consider a
situation where the number of teachers decreases by one third of retired teachers. That is, in this
restricted scenario, two-thirds of retired teachers are replaced. Tables 1-3 present the basic information
                                                                                   w
for this calculation; more detailed information can be found in the project files.

                                  Table 1: Ideal students per section targets

    Students per section                  Actual            Target
    Basic Education Cycles 1 and 2         18                 28
    Basic Education Cycle 3                29                 30
    Secondary Education                    25                 30


                        Table 2: Public Servant at MEe by Year of EntrancelttI
 Year ot Entrance                         Total Number of Employees          % share over total
                                                                             employees
 .......... to 1970                                                     433                   0.7%
 From 1971 to 1975                                                      597                   0.9%
 From 1976 to 1980                                                     2563                   4.1%
 From 1981 to 1985                                                     4609                   7.3%
 From 1986 to 1990                                                     7997                 12.7%
 From 1991 to 1995                                                   15980                  25.4%
 From 1996 to 2000                                                   17291                  27.5%
 Not classified                                                      13378                  21.3%
TOTAL                                                                62848                 100.0%
 Expected gradual retirement over total emElc>yees (2003-2008)                                9.4%
Source: Ministry of Education, Department of Human Resources.


          Table 3: MEC Budget Information and Potential Savings if tal"gets are met.
l                          Budget      Potential savings if Potential savings if Potential savings if
i                                  information    ideal target is met restricted target is restricted target is
l                                  (US$ million) (%)                    met(%)              met (US$ million)
MEC Total Budget, Year 2000.                381.4                  11.7                 Ul                      6.01
                           ,
iBasic Education: Teachers                  133.8                  26.1                 3.1                     4.2
Salaries Budget, year 2ooo.Ji1
 Secondary Education: Teachers'               58.8                 16.7                  3.1                    1.8
Salaries Budget, year 2000.


In the baseline scenario, the present value (over 10 years) of savings due to more efficient allocation of
                                                                                             w
students across schools in Paraguay is estimated, for the whole program, at US$24.7 million. For APL I,
the present value of savings (over 10 years) is US$12.8 million. If we consider a time horizon of 20
years, the present value (over 20 years) of savings would be of US$40.4 million, a figure similar to the
amount of the loan being analyzed. For APL I, the present value (over 20 years) of savings would be of
US$19.l million.


                                                       - 51 
At this point, it is important to distinguish potential savings from increasing ratios of students per
section. The restriction we have considered refers to the difficulties of reducing the MEC's teacher
payroll bill. Yet the student-per-section ratios could increase even under the restrictions imposed to the
teacher's payroll bill. This could be the case if redeployment of teachers to other programs takes place.
This redeployment could be, for example, to initial education and literacy programs. In this case the
savings would not be for the MEC as a whole but for the basic education and secondary levels. In any
case, this redeployment of teachers would imply a significant increase in efficiency for the MEC through
achievement of more outcomes with the same human resources. Therefore, the restrictions on reducing
the payroll bill do not rule out the possibility of achieving, for the basic and secondary education levels,
the targets presented above as ideal targets.

However, we could also set more modest targets, assuming that redeployment to other programs will not
be feasible. If we assume proportionality between the potential savings and changes in the
students/section ratios, a minimum target assuming no redeployment would imply for the first two cycles
of the basic education system that the average number of students per section to increase to 19.2 from 18.
In the third cycle of basic education, this average would remain in 29 students per section. In the
three-year cycle of secondary education, the average number of students per should increase to 25.9 from
25. The program targets for students per sections have been set considering the range from the minimum
to the ideal targets discussed above.

2) Benefits from higher quality at the secondary level.

The program will undertake several quality-enhancement interventions at the secondary level, such as
demand-based training of teachers, provision of equipment and materials for new and existing schools,
and strengthening of school management and school-community ties. All these interventions have been
proven to have a positive significant impact on educational achievement in Paraguay according to
                                        l1I
education production function analyses. Table 4 reports the results of an education production function
relating the average score of a standardized test (SNEPE) given to secondary students in 1997 to
measures of in-class teaching effectiveness, equipment and materials, teacher-parent relationships, and
schools' community engagement activities, after controlling for the socio-economic status and sex of
students, school area, type of school (private, subsidized or public) and class hours (morning, afternoon
or evening shifts).




                                                   - 52
    Table 4: Paraguay-Secondary Education Production Function.
    (Dependent Variables: Scores 0 f a Standard ized Test (SNEPE) on Lan
                                                                       19uage and M a thematlcs
                                                                                            .)
                                                                                     OLS Robust Std. Errors

    Variables                              Snepe Language            Snepe Language            Snepe Mathematics Snepe Mathematics
    Socioeconomic Index                    .51 (***)                 .48 (***)                 .33 (***)                    .32(***)
    Community ties Index                   .11 (***)                 .11 (***)                 .09(*)                       .09(*)
    Infrastructure Index                   .07                                                 .04
    Materials Index                        .05                                                 .21(**)                      .20(**)
'Zone                                      -.03                      -.35                      -.14(***)                    -.14(***)
  Private                                  -.02                      -.041                     -.10                         -.10
  Subsidized                               .08(**)                   .09 (**)                  .01                          .02
  Student Sex (l=Male)                     -.14(***)                 -.13(***)                 -.18(**)                     -.17(***)
  Afternoon hours                          -.03                      -.03                      -.06                         -.07
  Evening hours                            -.05                      -.05                      -.08                         -.08
  In-class teaching effectiveness          .13(***)                  .12(***)                  .10(*)                       .10(*)
; Index.
 Teacher-Parent contact Index.             .12(**)                   .12(***)                   .01                         .00
  Library                                                            -.22                                                   -.02
    Laboratory                                                       .021                                                    .07
iComputer Lab                                                        .13(***)                                                .03
iTexts                                                               .04
I   Multimedia equipment                                             .05
    N                                      282                       282                       295                           295
    F                                      25.9                      23.1                      lOA                           9.1
    R'                                     0.43                      0.44                      0.31                          0.31

Standardized Coefficients. C* ..) Statistically significant at 99%, (**)Statistically significant at 95%, (*) Statistically Significant at 90% .


Regression results show that in-class teacher effectiveness, better materials, a closer relationship between
teachers and parents, and closer contact of the school to the community are significant in directly
explaining the scores of a standardized test in language and mathematics. Besides the direct impact on
quality of the above-mentioned factors, regression results also show that school infrastructure, training of
principals, the working environment in the school community (i.e. satisfactory relationships among
teachers, principals, MEC and parents) and engagement in strategic planning at the school level are
significant in explaining indirectly the scores of a standardized test in language and mathematics (see
Table 5). The regression results also point out that the pre-service teacher training system, as currently in
place, is not contributing to improving quality in secondary education in Paraguay.




                                                                        - 53
                     Table 5: Factors Affecting Indirectly the Quality of Education
                         (Results for Language Only, results for mathematics in the project files)

                                               Tobit (Unstandardized OLS Robust Std. Errors      OLS Robust Std. Errors
                                               coefficients)
IVariables                                     Community Ties         Principal Management       In-Class Teaching
                                               Index                  Quality Index              Effectiveness Index.
 Socioeconomic Index                           -.07                                              -.20(***)
 Principal Management Quality Index            .50(***)
Infrastructure                                 .00                    .17(**)
 Zone                                          .12                    -.15(**)                   -.023
 Private                                       .04                    -.04                       -.023
 Subsidized                                    .13                    -.17 (**)                  .12(**)
톁tudent Sex (l=Male)                          .04
Afternoon hours                                .25                                               .07
Evening hours                                  -.08                                              -.03
In-Class Teaching Effectiveness Index          -.11
In service teacher training                                                                      .15(*)
Pre-service teaChing training                                                                    -.13(**)
Principal Sex (l=Male)                                                -.01
Principal Academic Credential                                         .01
Principal also teaches                                                -.18(***)
In service training for Principal                                     .13(***)
Principal Experience                                                  .05
Teacher also teaches in other institution                                                        -.02
(Index)
Strategic Planning at the school level                                .19(***)
Working environment                                                                              .16(***)


N                                              227                    2815                       297
F                                              21.12 (chi2)           4.98                       4.98
R'                                             0.025(seudo)           0.15                       0.15


(***) Statistically significant at 99%, (**)Statistically significant at 95%, (*) Statistically significant at 90%.

As an illustration, an increase of one standard deviation in teacher effectiveness in class leads to an
                                                                           1M
increase of about 3.3% in the scores of a standardized test on language. An increase of one standard
deviation in the index of materials leads to an increase of about 1.3% in the scores on a standardized test
of language. An increase of one standard deviation in the index of teacher/parent contact leads to an
increase of about 3.3% in the scores of a standardized test on language. An increase of one standard
deviation in the index of school/community contacts leads to an increase of about 2.5% in the scores of a
standardized test on language.

We estimate that the program will lead to an overall increase of one standard deviation of an aggregated
score in language and mathematics. This increase of one standard deviation is equi valent to an
approximate increase of 10 points above the actual average of 45 out of 100 in language and 39 out of



                                                               - 54
                                                                                                             12l
100 in mathematics in the national standardized test (SNEPE) for secondary students. This increase will
be achieved through the sub-components of teacher training, school management improvement, provision
of materials and equipment, and the social community projects. An increase of 10 points in the average
score of a standardized test is estimated to increase the promotion rate by 5 percentage points, according
to our regression results (See Table 6).

                      Table 6: Paraguay-Determinants of Repetition and Dropout Rates
                                                                          OLS                   OLS
i

Variables                                                                 Repetition mte        Dropout rate
 Socioeconomic Index                                                      .19                    -.00
 Infrastructure Index                                                     -.07                   -.11
iZone                                                                     .08                    .20(**)
 Private                                                                  .29(**)                .54(**)
 Subsidized                                                               .10                    .14
 In class teaching effectiveness Index.                                   .32(***)               .20(**)
 Teacher also teaches in other institution (Index)                        .28(***)               .11
 FanrilySupportlndex                                                      -.00                   -.01
'Strategic Planning at the school level                                   -.15                   -.18(*)
 SNEPE Total (Aggregated Index of Scores on Standardized Tests)           -.30(***)              -.29(***)


N                                                                         102                    102
F                                                                         4.41                   4.4
R'                                                                        .26                    .32
(***) Statistically slgmficant at 99%, (**)Statlstlcally slgmficant at 95%, (*) Statistically slgmficant at 90%.



Table 7 estimates the savings produced by an increase in the promotion rate due to lower repetition and
drop out.

                             Table 7: Savings in Recurrent Costs due to Higher Quality
    Average promotion rates for the last three years of secondary school (year 2000) (in percentage)                    83.8%
    Enrollment in the last three years of secondary school (year 2000) (students)                                      163,340
    Expected yearly reduction of repeaters and drop-outs due to an increase in quality (equivalent to 10 points in       8,167
    SNEPE)llJ!l (students)
                                                 ill]
                                                                                                                           274
    Per student recurrent cost (year 2000) in US$
    Present Value (over 10 years) of savings in recurrent costs due to increased promotion rate (lower repetitior    10,181,170
                                             lUI lUI
and drop-out rates) in US$ (APL I and II)
Present Value (over 10 years) of savings in recurrent costs due to increased promotion rate (lower repetitio~        6,488,675
~nd droE:0ut rates) in US$ (APL I Only)


3) Benefits from expanded coverage

In Table 8, we present a summary of earning function estimates that will allow us to compute the stream
of the increase in earnings. These earning function estimates are the result of estimations of standard
Mincerian functions by both OLS and Heckman procedures. The estimations are done for eight different
population segments, classified according to gender (male/female), language spoken at home
(Guarani/Spanish), and area (rural/urban). For each additional year of education, a worker increases
his/her earnings by approximately 10.6% (return to education).W1     For a beneficiary of the expanded



                                                                - 55
coverage of three years of secondary education generated by the program, hislher labor earnings will
increase over hislher working lifetime by approximately 35.2% for the additional three years of
education. Assuming that a new secondary graduate starts working at the age of 18 and works until the
age of 65, we can estimate the stream of incremental earnings. The starting point for our estimation is the
average labor income for a worker of IS years old and 9 years of schooling that according a household
survey was US$933 per year in March 2001. To obtain the stream of income of this representative
worker over hislher lifetime, we adjust hislher income according his/her experience, based on the
estimated earnings functions. lill We then discount this stream to the time of graduation using a 10%
discount rate. The lifetime discounted incremental earning produced by three years of secondary
education is US$4,366, assuming zero unemployment and no wage compression. However, to have a
more realistic estimate at the baseline, we consider an unemployment rate of 5% and a wage compression
of 3%. The national average open unemployment rate was 5.8% in the period 1995-2001. Considering
that individuals with some secondary education face smaller probability of being unemployed in
Paraguay, we consider a slightly smaller unemployment rate. LW The estimated wage compression is an ad
hoc assumption, and it will be subject to a sensitivity analysis below. With these new assumptions, the
lifetime discounted incremental earning produced by three years of secondary education is US$4,OI7.

                    Table 8: Return to Education (Results of Mincerian Functions)

Population Segment              Return to education      Return to education       Share of Labor
                                (OLS)(%)                 (Heckman) (%)             Force (%)
Urban Guarani Speaking Male                      10.                        9.1l                    14


                                                                           ~
Rural Guarani Speaking Male                       9.5                                               21
Urban Spanish Speaking Male                      12.8                                               21
Rural Spanish Speaking Male                      10.3                       7.                       5
Urban Guarani Speaking Female                     8.4                       8.                       8
Rural Guarani Speaking Female                     9.C                       9.                      10
Urban Spanish Speaking Female                    12.(]                     13.C                     18
Rural Spanish Speaking Female                     8.9                      10.1                      "I
Weighted Average                               10.64                     10.51                  100



The program establishes the provision of targeted scholarships to students in extreme poverty. It is
assumed that students in extreme poverty do not engage in secondary education. It is expected that the
scholarship program will benefit 9,000 new students for the three-year secondary education cycle. The
program also considers the creationo<>f an alternative secondary program. An amount ofUS$I,525,4S0 is
contemplated for this component. The number of expected beneficiaries for the three-year cycle will be
S,400 during the six years. The program is also expected to create an additional 5,000 places in regular
secondary education over the six implementation years period through the construction of five new
secondary schools (with a capacity of 1000 students each). Under the following assumptions: (a) the first
three schools are completed in year 2 of the implementation period, the fourth and the fifth in year 5; (b)
schools are filled gradually class after classL!ll (schools are filled in three years); (c) the scholarship
program benefits 1,000 new students the first year, 2,000 new students the second, and 3,000 new
students the third and fourth years (APL I and II); (d) the alternative secondary program produces 1,225
graduates in APL I (proportional to the funds allocated in APL I on this component) and 8,400 graduates
by the end of the six-year period; and (e) the promotion rate for the three year secondary education cycle
(years 10-12) is SO%, we obtain the expected distribution in time of new secondary graduates as
presented below in Table 9. Multiplying the discounted stream of graduates by the discounted
incremental earnings and summing this up, we obtain the direct economic benefit of the higher access
produced by the program (US$ 68.6 million) in the two phases, evaluating at the beginning of the



                                                      - 56
program. In phase I, the total economic benefit due to increased coverage will be of US$42.5 million,
evaluating at the beginning of the program.lUI

4) Project costs and relating costs to benefits

In Table 9, we report the total cost of the program. Besides the investment and recurrent costs reported in
the program budget, we also consider the opportunity costs of the program, as well as the incremental
recurrent costs that may generate an improvement in coverage and an increase in the promotion rate.

To estimate the opportunity cost in terms of forgone income, we consider that the normal entry age into
the labor market is 15 years old. The forgone income is obtained by multiplying the discounted new
secondary school enrollees by the discounted yearly wage that they would have earned if they were
working instead of attending school. The annual labor income for the working population of 15-17 years
is US$892, according to a household survey of 2001. Assuming that all students may otherwise be
working, we estimate the forgone income.

An improvement of the promotion rate and the coverage rate by 10%, keeping constant the average 25
students per section, would generate an increase in teachers' wage bill of 0.9%. These results are
generated by the supply and demand model for education in Paraguay built during this project
preparation process. As mentioned before, its technical coefficients were calibrated to actual data for the
year 2000. The present value over ten years of the induced incremental recurrent cost generated by the
project improvement in promotion and coverage rate would be of US$4.6 million for the whole program.
L!2l



In Table 9, we also compare the total discounted benefits with the total discounted costs to obtain a Net
Present Value and Economic Rate of Return for the program. The NPV is equal to US$9.7 million and
the IRR to 19% for the whole program. For APL I, the NPV is equal to US$3.8 million and the IRR to
15%. Therefore, the program is viable in economic terms under our set of assumptions.




                                                  -57 
                                             Table 9: COST-BENEFIT SUMMARY
Years                            Cost (In Thousand of US$)                     Benefits (In Thousand ofUS$)       fNet Benefit
       N~;'          Recurrent Capital         Forgone      ncremental Benefit. lBenefit due to Potential
       Graduates Expenditure Expenditure Income            Expenditure due to       Higher         Savings due to ~In Thousand
       (Number of                                          due to         quality   enrollment     re-allocation ~fUS$)
       graduates)                                          higher                                  of students
                                                                      ill
                                                            nrollment
    1            0            214                                   110                                            - 3,896
                                       3,946          -                       374         -                   -
    2            0          1,005 1                                 221                                            - 7,334
                                       8,061             -                    747                         1,206
   3        1780 I         2,011                                    331                     7,150                  - 7,859
                                     1l,264          4,936                  1,121                         2,411
   4        1600           2,471                                    441                     6,427                  -    2,296
                                       6,486         4,437                  1,494                         3,617
   5        3199           2,471                                    551                    12,851                       1,161
                                       6,486         8,871                  1,868                         4,823
   6        9738           2,471                                    662                    39,119                      10,765
                                       6,486       27,005                   2,241                         6,029
   7        2400                                                  1,491     2,241           9,640                       9,764
                                                     6,655                                                6,029
   8        2933                                                  1,491     2,241          11,781                      10,427
                                                     8,133                                                6,029
   9        3466                                                  1,491     2,241          13,921                      11,090
                                                     9,610                                                6,029
  10        4000                                                  1,491     2,241          16,068                      11,754
                                                    11,092                                                6,029
                                       Informationfor the whole program, unless specified.
Benefits:                                                                                          PV (In US$ Million)
Increased efficiency due to reallocation of students                                                                         24.71




e
                                               ures                                                                           10.2
                                                                                                                             68.6

            osts                                                                                                           (33.9)
~osts
    come
                                                                                                                            (7.9)
                                                                                                                           (47.4)
Incremental Expenditure due to higher enrollment                                                                            (4.6)
NPV:                                                                                                                          9.7
IRK:                                                                                                                         19%
APLINPV:                                                                                                                      3.8
APLIIRK:                                                                                                                     15%




   After the implementation period, it includes US$ 829,670 for maintenance of schools, computers, office supplies,
 ill

 and community and educational projects.




                                                          - 58
Main Assumptioas: 

Included in text above 



 Seasitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items: 

 To evaluate how a different set of assumptions will affect the program net benefit, a sensitivity (and, 

 when applicable, a switching value analysis) was undertaken in relation to the following crucial 

 parameters: 

  different degrees of success in improving efficiency by reallocating students across schools;
  the "quality premium" in secondary education;
  the "pace of production" of new secondary graduates affected by dropout and repetition rates in
     different ways;
  the unemployment rate;
  the increment in earnings due to secondary education, considering potential wage compression
     effects;
  the time horizon for assessing the program.

These are the main results of the sensitivity analysis:UQ1

     If only half of the retired teachers are replaced, instead of two thirds, the NPV will increase to
      US$22.1 million and the IRR will increase to 29%.
     If we consider the ideal target of increasing the average number of students per section to 28 in the
      first two cycles of basic education, and to 30 in the third cycle of basic education and in secondary
      education, without the restrictions discussed in section 1) above, the NPV will increase to US$168.2
      million and the IRR will increase to 159%. As mentioned before, the ideal target might be achieved
      by redeploying teachers to initial education and literacy programs. In this case the savings would not
      be for the MEC as a whole but for the basic education and secondary levels. In any case, this
      redeployment of teachers would imply a significant increase in efficiency for the MEC that would be
      able to achieve more outcomes with the same human resources.
     If the "quality premium" in secondary education is 2.5%, the NPV will increase to US$11.4 million
      and the IRR will increase to 20%.
     If the "pace of production" of new graduates is slower than our baseline estimation due to a
      promotion rate of 83% for the three-year cycle, the NPV will be US$12.3 million and the IRR will be
      21%.
     If the increment in earnings due to secondary education is only 90% of the estimated baseline, the
      NPV will drop to US$2.8 million and the IRR will be 13%.
     If the unemployment rate were 15% for all the program beneficiaries, the NPV would drop to US$2.3
      million and the IRR would be 12%.
     If there is a "wage compression" of 10% due to the increased number of secondary graduates, the
      NPV will decrease to US$4.5 million and the IRR will decrease to 14%.


ill These   average targets at the national level were set considering specific targets by each state (departamento). In
     this procedure, more modest targets were set for states with a higher proportion of rural population. For example,
     to reach an average target of 25 students per section, the set target is only 20 students per section in the state of
     San Pedro (with a significant rural population), while it is 30 students per section for the Central state (a mainly
     urban state). Details on the supply and demand model used in these calculations is in the project file.
11
     Assumes that the distribution of salaries of the potential retirees is the same as the distribution of the other
     employees. Consider only the classified employees over total employees. This later assumption may



                                                            - 59
         underestimate the proportion of potential retirees. If we also assume that the distribution of MEC employees not
         classified is the same as the classified, the proportion of retirees increases to 11.9%.
w, Calculations can be found in the project files that provide evidence on the potential feasibility of reducing the
    number of teachers even in a context of increasing coverage, provided that a more efficient allocation of students
    across schools is undertaken.
ill
    Approximately 92% of total employment at the MEC is broadly defined as teachers' positions, including teachers,
    principals and academic support personnel.
w Teacher salaries are approximately 80% of total salaries.
J1 Assumes a gradual linear increase of savings starting at year 2. The full US$6.0 million is only achieved at year 6.
ill
         It was also shown in several other studies, including Fuller and Clarke (1994), Harbison and Hanushek (1992),
         Wolf, Shiefelbein and Valenzuela (1994) and Di Gropello (2001).
ill 
         Due to the aggregated nature of the data, as mentioned above, these results should be interpreted with caution.
         These illustrations refer only to the result on the language standardized test. The results on the mathematics test
         and on a consolidated measure of both language and mathematics are in the project files. The project files also
         include details on all the indirect impacts of other factors.
ill      This data refers to the SNEPE results of third course secondary in the pre-reform scheme in 1997. The data is the
         same used in the econometric analysis reported above.
l1!.!l   Estimation based on the regression results and the enrollment level of year 2000.
lill
         Department of Educational Planning, MEC
LQ       Assuming a gradual linear increase in promotion rate from 0.83 percentage points to 5 percentage points in six
         years.
Jill     The discount rate that will be used throughout the analysis is 10%.
lli1     The Chow test indicates that the data from different population segments cannot be pooled. For this reason, a
         separate model was estimated for each of the eight population segments. Table 8 reports the return to education
         estimated by Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) techniques and also by the Heckman selection model. The Heckman
         models estimate simultaneously the Mincerian function and a model for the decision to participate in the labor
         market. The participation decision is modeled as a function of their non-labor income, marital status, age,
         education, dependency ratio, and head of household status. The returns reported are average returns through
         different education levels. It was tested for different returns by educational level. However, the results indicate
         that, except for urban Spanish speaking males, there are not significant differences in the return to education by
         levels. It was also tested for "sheepskin effect" (i.e. higher return for the last year of an education level). Except
         for urban Spanish speaking females, there is not statistical evidence of a sheepskin effect. Due to space limitation,
         we cannot report the models estimated for the eight population segments; however, more details on the estimation
         can be found in the project files.
Jill     The weighted average of the parameters associated to experience in the Mincerian functions (estimated by
         Heckman procedures) are: 0.027 Experience - 0.0004 Experience square.
Jl!U      Robles (2002) estimated that for each three years of additional education, the probability of being unemployed
         decreased by two percentage points for male workers in Paraguay.
lill     Starting from year I (first level of secondary education) to year 3 (last level).
ll.!!1   This calculation is made for a time horizon of ten years.
ill.I  Assuming   a gradual linear improvement of both the promotion and coverage rate over six years. After the
      implementation period, the induced incremental recurrent cost includes maintenance of schools, of computers,
      office supplies, and the cost of community projects previously included in the program recurrent costs.
l1Qj  The sensitivity analysis refers to the whole program only. Detailed results of this analysis are available in the

      project files.




                                                               - 60
                                          Annex 5: Financial Summary
                              PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM
                                                    Years Ending




Total Financing Required
 Project Costs
 Investment Costs                      14.1          12.0           10.2          5.7                0.0               0.0   0.0
 Recurrent Costs                        0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0                0.0               0.0   0.0
Total Project Costs                    14.1          12.0           10.2          5.7                0.0               0.0   0.0
              Front-end fee             0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0                0.0               0.0   0.0
Total Financing                        14.1          12.0           10.2          5.7                0.0               0.0   0.0
Financing
  IBRDJlDA                             11.7           9.9            8.6          4.8                0.0           0.0       0.0
   Government                           2.0           1.5            1.5          2.0                0.0           0.0       0.0
      Central                           0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0                0.0           0.0       0.0
      Provincial                        0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0                0.0           0.0       0.0
  Co-financiers                         0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0                0.0           0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries                 0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0                0.0           0.0       0.0
Other                                   0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0                0.0           0.0       0.0
 Total Project Financing               13.7          11.4           10.1          6.8                0.0           0.0       0.0
Main assumptions: 


      Table 1: Paraguay- program cost and financing (in US$ millions) 



       Concept                  Implementation Period                                Total     Operational Period
                                2003    2004        2005     2006   2007   2008                2009 2010 2011
        Whole Project:
         Project Costs
           Investment Costs      3.9          8.0    11.3     6.5    6.5    6.5         42.7
           Recurrent Costs       0.2          1.0     2.0     2.5    2.5    2.5         10.6   3.1         3.1   3.1
        Total Project:           4.2          9.0    13.3     9.0    9.0    9.0         53.4
       Induced Government        0.1          0.2     0.3     0.4    0.6    0.7          2
        Costs

      APLI:
       Project Costs             3.9          8.0    11.3
          Investment Cost        0.2          1.0     2.0     2.3    2.3    2.3                2.3         2.3   2.3
           Recurrent Cost        4.2          9.0    13.3
       Total Project:            0.1          0.2     0.3
      Induced Government
      Costs               I

  Notes: Based on program Budget Data and estimates of induced Government costs due to higher enrollment (See Economic
  Analysis). Data exclude contingencies. Project costs in APL II assumes uniform distribution over time.




                                                            - 61 
The implementation period of the whole program is six years. However, it will be divided into two
phases of three years each. Table 1 presents the cost structure of the whole program and APL I. Program
costs are divided into investment and recurrent costs. In addition to the program budget, Table 1 includes
the additional government expenditure induced by the program due to an expected increase in
enrollment. As mentioned in Annex 4, an improvement of the promotion rate and the coverage rate by
10% in secondary education, keeping constant the average 25 students per section, would generate an
increase in the teachers' wage bill of 0.9%.w These results are generated by the supply and demand
model for education in Paraguay built during this project preparation process, whose technical
coefficients were calibrated to actual data for the year 2000. After the implementation period, the
induced govemment expenditure is added to the recurrent costs to evaluate the fiscal impact of the
program in Table 3. Since there are not significant differences regarding the financial implication for the
government in terms of recurrent cost between either the whole program or APL I, the projections of the
financial impact in Table 3 focus on the whole program. Recurrent cost amounts to 19.9% of the total
costs during the implementation period. It ranges from 5.1 % in the first implementation year to an
average of 27.5% in the last three implementation years.




                                                  - 62
       Overview of pubHc education expenditure and fiscal impact of the program in Paraguay

            a.      Overview

       Table 2: Consolidated data on Expenditure Levels in the Education Sector and Unit Costs
       (in current Gs. millions)

                                       1995 (a) 1996       1997       1998       1999        2000       1001         1002
Total public expenditure in
education (1)                          565,434 755,393       837,314    978,056 1,043,749 1,275,054 1,256,810 1,319,726
Total public recurrent expenditure in
education (1)                          493,099 654,782       723,988    875,002    965,626 1,168,379 1,151,661 1,209,314
  otal public recurrent expenditure in
salaries in education (1)              403,630 524,552      575,681    706,229     796,608     972,880
                                                                                                         958,959 1,006,965
[Total public capital expenditure in
:education (l)                          72,334    100,611    113,326    103,054     88,123     106.675 105,149       110,412
 Recurrent education expenditurel
rrotal education expenditure (%)            87%        87%        86%        89%        93%         92%        92~          92%
Salary education expenditure!
 Recurrent education expenditure (%)       82%         80%        80%        81%         82%        83%        83~           83%
 Total education expenditure/GOP
(%) (2)                                    3.2%       3.8%       4.0%       4.2%        4.3%       4.7%       4.5~          4.2%
 Total education expenditure!
National budget (%) (3)                     16%        18%        18%        18%         14%        17%        17~           17%
 Total recurrent education
expenditure !total public recurrent
budget (%) (3)                              22%        23%        25%        25%         24%        24%        240/,         24~
 Recurrent expenditure in secondary
                                       115,326                                                 316,783 ~12,250
15;
education (1) (b)
         expenditure in secondary
        ion (1)                        113.808
                                                  148,859

                                                  146,538
                                                             166.650

                                                             160,634
                                                                        209.937

                                                                        201,062
                                                                                   224.905

                                                                                   215,708     306.114 ~01,734
                                                                                                                     l127,882

                                                                                                                     316,839
~'t              ...,. """"h.",
       ion IRecurrent expenditure in
            education (%)                  98.7%     98.4%           96.4%          95.8%          95.9%          96.6%           96.60/,          96.6%

Memorandum Items
Average students per sediOD
Basic Education (Years 1-6)                   21           20              19             20             19             18 n.a.             n.a
Basic Education (Years 7-9) (la)              35           34              33             31             30             29 n.a.             n.a.
Secondary Education (Years 10-12)             27           26              27             26             26             25 n.a              n.a.
Secondary Sub-Sector (b)
 Number of students in          Public
iInstitu tions (4)                       188,289 213,718        231,457         260,007        299,372        331,100      373120           1420.916
 Unit costs (Current Gs.) (1)            583,126 690,498        1760,534        876.737        814,118        1,030,733    n.a              n.a.
Unit costs (Gs. 1999) (5)                765.236 820,036        876,598         898,830        814,118     1921,148        n.a.             n.a.


       Notes: In Italics: unofficial estimates. (a) Fiscal Years = calendar years. (b) Secondary education refers to the pre-reform six year 

       period (grades 7-12) (equivalent to the pre-reform secondary cycle). 

       Sources: (1) OPEl-Budget Unit. Only education expenditure, it excludes culture expenditure; (2) National Accounts- Paraguayan 

       Central Bank, several numbers; (3) Financial Report on Central Government, Ministry of Finance, several issues; (4) 

       OPEl-Indicators Unit, six year period (equivalent to the pre-reform secondary cycle); (5) Deflactor: GOP Deflactor (1995=0.76, 

       1996=0.84. 1997=0.87. 1998=0.98. and 2000= 1.12). Oetailed description of the set of assumptions to estimate indicators for the 

       2001-2002 period is in the project files. 




                                                                           - 63
The above infonnation shows that Paraguay is giving considerable and increasing priority to education,
as indicated by a share of the recurrent national budget allocated to education expenditures of around
23% and an education expenditure-GOP ratio around 4%. This later indicator has increased from 3.2% in
1995 to 4.7% in 2000. Exceptionally. the 2001102 estimated education budget decreased, even in nominal
terms in 2001, reversing a trend of the last few years due to an attempt to reduce the fiscal deficit. The
fiscal deficit increased from 0.5% of GOP in 1995 to 4.3% of GOP in the year 2000. This deficit was
reduced to 1.2% of GOP by 2001; however, the situation considerably worsened in the year 2002.
Despite fluctuations in the budget for education over the last two years, existing evidence suggests that
the sector will continue to be a constant priority of the country, maintaining positive but moderate real
growth rates, as shown below.

While the education expenditure analysis shows that the proportion of recurrent expenditure allocated to
non-salary expenditures is satisfactory in the overall education sector (around 18% on average in the
1995-2001 time period), there is a serious imbalance in the allocation of resources within the secondary
sub-sector: only around 3% in the budget of recurrent expenditures were spent on non-salary
expenditures such as maintenance and teaching materials, during the same period (1995-2001). This
proportion will need to be substantially increased to improve the quality of secondary education delivery.


The education expenditure analysis also shows a decreasing trend of share of capital and non-salary
recurrent expenditure out of, respectively, total and recurrent expenditure in the overall education sector.
The share of capital out of total expenditure in the overall education sector fell from a satisfactory
13%-14% in the 1995-1997 period, to 7%-8% in the 1999-2000 period. It is estimated that this share has
not improved in the 200 1-2002 period. This share should be increased, especially at the secondary level,
to cope with increasing coverage rates and need for improved quality. The share of non-salary recurrent
expenditure is also decreasing in the overall education sector, from 20% in 1996 to 17% in 2000.

The same analysis also shows that, in the secondary sub-sector, unit costs increased by more than 20% in
real terms between 1995 and 2000. The increasing trend in unit cost can be associated with the
decreasing students-per-section ratio. An increase in the students-per-section ratio would make it possible
to decrease unit costs and to increase the share of non-salary recurrent expenditure.

As is shown in Annex 4, a more efficient allocation of students across schools could potentially generate
significant savings in the Paraguayan education system. Simulations done with a supply and demand
model for education in Paraguay show that the total expenditure in teachers' salaries is quite sensitive to
the average number of students per section. These simulations tell us that by increasing the average
number of students per section to 28 in the first two cycles of basic education, and to 30 in the third cycle
of basic education and in secondary education, the potential total savings would be equivalent to 11.7%
of the total budget of the Ministry of Education (MEC) in the year 2000. Considering rigidities that may
arise from potential conflicts with teachers, our baseline scenario presents an estimation of
approximately US$6.0 million per year can be saved by re-allocating students across schools in Paraguay.
ill




b. Projections.

Assuming: (a) that the GOP real growth rate is around -2.2% in 2002 (according to preliminary official
estimates), -1% in 2003, and 2% in 2004, following the regional recession and the fiscal adjustment that
the country will have to implement to eqUilibrate the fiscal situation, and a gradual recovery


                                                   -64
characterized by a 2.5% real growth rate in the 2005-2006 period, 3% in the 2007-2008 period and 3.5%
over the 2009-2011 period; and (b) that education slightly loses priority for the country due to the fiscal
adjustment but ~adually recovers the year 2000 priority level by 2008, we can project an annual real
growth rp.te of the budget over the 2000-2011 time period of about 2.0% (reflecting a moderate real
growth tfend). Under this conservative scenario, total program costs will amount to 2.5% of the total
education budget in the implementation period. Even under this conservative scenario, the program
should not add a significant financial burden on the education budget. On the recurrent side, the
incremental recurrent costs produced by the program will represent about 0.8% of the projected recurrent
education budget.

If the program could achieve the estimated savings of US$6.0 million per year due to increasing the
average number of students per section, the present value of this stream over 20 years will cover 97% of
the present value of the recurrent and investment costs of the program during the whole implementation
       Lll
pen'od.

Table 3: Paraguay-Financial Impact of the Project.

                                   1999        2            1      2002     2003      2004     2005         2006         2007         2008      2009       ~10       2011

GDP (Gs. 000 millions) (a) (b)
                                   24,144 24,048 24,697 24,154 ~3,912 24,390 25,()(}() 25,625 26,394 27,186 28,137 29,122 30,141
Education Budget (Gs. 000
millions) (a)
                                     1             1,138   J,102     /,00      980     1,049    1,1(){)      1,]53        1,214        1,278     1,322      /,36S      /,41;.
Recurrent Education Budget
(Os. 000 millions) (a)
                                         966       1,043   1,028      923      912       975     1,001        1,038        1,081        1,124     1.151     1.177      1.218
Education Budget as share of
GNP(%)
                                     4.3%          4.7%    4.5%      4.2%     4.1%      4.3%     4.4%         4.5%         4.6%         4.7%      4.7%      4.7%       4.7%
 Project Cost (Gs. 000 millions)
(a)

  Investment                                                                   12.4     25.4     35.5         20.5         20.5          20.5                   .            .

  Recurrent                                                                    0.7       3.2       6.3          7.8          7.8          7.8       9.9       9.9           9.9

Total Project Cost                                                            13.1      28.6     41.9         28.3         28.3          28.3          
Induced government
expenditure due to higher
enrollment.                                                                    0.3       0.7          l.0          1.4          1.7       2.1                   .            .
Project Cost share of Education
Budget(%)
                                                                              1.3%      2.7%     3.8%         2.5%         2.3%         2.2%
 Project Recurrent Cost share of
 Recurrent Education Budget
1(%)                                                                          0.1%      0.3%     0.6%         0.8%         0.7%         0.7%      0.9%      0.8%       0.8%1
 Induced Recurrent Cost share of
 Recurrent Education Budget
 (%)                                                                          0.0%      0.1%     0.1%         0.1%         0.2%         0.2%

Notes: In Italic: estimates. (a) In 1999 prices (GOP deflator 2000: 1.12; GOP deflator 2001: lJ4; GOP deflator 2002: l.3J); (b)
Assumes that GNP falls in -2.2% in 2002 and -1.0% in 2003, and grows at 2% in 2004, 2.5% over the 2005 2006 period, 3%
over the 2007 2008 period, and 3.5% over the 2009 2011 period.

In 2002 the fiscal situation considerably worsened. Due to a significant contraction of GDP (-2.2%) that
eroded tax collection, and a large local currency devaluation (51 % in the year) that increased the fiscal
liabilities in local currency, the fiscal situation in 2002 has posed a serious challenge in the short run
(2003-2004) to the Government of Paraguay to gather the necessary countetpart funds. Given this
situation, the Bank has agreed to a 90% share of financing for Phase I of the Program, rather than the



                                                                            - 65
75% that otherwise would be in place. This exception has been made taking into account the Borrower's 

commitment to education. as shown by the increasing priority the country has given to the sector. The 

share of Bank financing will be adjusted to 75% for the second phase of the Program. assuming a 

positive economic growth rate in 2004 and 2005. 


III Detailed information of this calculation is in the project files. 

III See the economic analysis in Annex 4 and the project files for more details on these calculations. 

III See the economic analysis in Annex 4 and the project files for more details on these calculations. 





                                                         - 66
                        Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                     PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM

Procurement

   A) Procurement Arrangements

   Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
   "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised
   January/August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and
   Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in
   September 1999, January 1999 and May 2002), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.

   1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement are described below, with
   the estimated amounts for each method for Phase I, and summarized in Table A. The threshold
   contract values for the use of each method are defined in Table B.

   Procurement of Works

   Works procured under this project would include construction and rehabilitation of schools and
   educational centers, totaling US$4.31 million equivalent. The construction refers to three new
   schools, located in Fernando de la Mora, Luque and Caaguazu. The three schools would be procured
   through International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB), divided into three lots, using
   Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts estimated to cost less than US$3.0
   million equivalent per contract, may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
   procedures, with standard bidding documents agreed in advance with the Bank. Small works,
   estimated to cost less than US$250,OOO equivalent per contract, may be procured on the basis of at
   least three quotations received in response to a written invitation to be agreed with the Bank. The
   invitation will include a detailed description of the works, basic specifications, the required
   completion date, a contract format acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings where applicable.

   Procurement of Goods

   Goods procured under this project would include vehicles, information technology equipment, office
   equipment, science laboratory equipment, other technology equipment, textbooks, library books and
   instructional materials totaling US$11.92 million equivalent. For textbooks and library books, the
   subject areas were identified during preparation and will be developed in line with the new
   curriculum. The MEC will take advantage of the lessons learned from the MECES project. To the
   extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than
   US$250,OOO equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures,
   using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with estimated values below this
   threshold per contract including bilingual textbooks, may be procured using National Competitive
   Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank. Contracts for
   goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than
   US$50,OOO per contract, may be procured using shopping (NationallInternational) procedures based
   on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.




                                               - 67
Selection of Consultants

Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise: designs
and construction drawings for the new schools and centers, supervision of construction, definition
and installation of MIS, and technical assistance. These services are estimated to cost US$3.34
million equivalent and would be procured using the Bank Standard Request for Proposals. The MEC
shall publicly advertise requests of expressions of interest as the basis for developing short list of
firms and individual consultants.

Firms
All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS except for contracts estimated to cost
US$l00,OOO equivalent or less that would be procured using Least Cost (LCS) selection.

Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.65 million equivalent.
The consultant's fee for Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) staff may be in accordance with the range
established in the Government law and their contracts signed for the expected duration of the
assignment, with escape clauses in case of non- performance.

Training: The category for training activities does not involve competitive procedures. It includes
expenditures for: (i) cost of tuition, event venues, food and traveling related to master's programs,
workshops and seminars. and (ii) costs of training Ministry of Education (MEC) staff in the use of
the MIS. Training services are estimated to cost US$3.14 million equivalent.

Secondary Education Grants: the loan would partially finance two types of grants: (a) scholarships
for students and (b) institutional grants for school development plans and social conununity projects.
Scholarships will be financed on a declining basis according to the agreed percentage. The
Secondary Education Grants are estimated to cost US$2.91 million equivalent. The grants are as
follows:

(a) Grants for students: the criteria for allocation of financial aid to students will be subject to Bank
approval at the beginning of each academic year in Paraguay (February). No procurement procedures
are involved. The students will be selected following procedures established in the Project
Operational Manual and under agreements signed with the MEC. The grants are estimated to cost
US$2.40 million equivalent; and.

(b) Grants for school development plan (PEls) and social community projects (PSPs): for the
improvement and institutional development of selected schools. The criteria for the selection of
schools will be based on open competition among them and under agreements signed with the MEC.
The recipient schools will be selected following procedures established in the Operational Manual.
These grants are estimated to cost US$510,000 equivalent. In the event that the grants include
purchases of goods, shopping procedures should be followed as defined in paragraph 3.5 of Bank
guidelines.

Operational Costs: Office utilities, maintenance, materials and supplies costs, and conununications
and transportation expenses would be financed during project implementation and would be procured



                                               - 68
using the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) administrative procedures, which were reviewed and
found acceptable to the Ban1<.

2) Prior review Thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the
procurement capacity assessment of the PCU and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this prior
review of individual procurement actions, the plan and the budget for the PCU Operating Costs will
be reviewed and approved by the Bank annually_

B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the PCU within the MEC. A Project Manager, a
Financial Administrator, a Procurement Coordinator and support staff currently comprise the PCU.
These staff worked in the PCU for the previous project and have experience in Bank procedures.
According to the needs of this project, the MEC will hire two additional Procurement officers to
work under the supervision of the Procurement Coordinator. As well as their general procurement
activities, one will focus on contracts related to goods and the other will give more attention to
contracts for consultants. In order to ensure project continuity, the contracts for existing staff should
be signed for the expected duration of the assignment, with escape clauses in case of
non-performance. Staff from the Technical offices of the MEC will prepare technical specifications
for works and goods and terms of reference for consultant services. The Project's Operational
Manual (OM) will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding
Documents to be used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for works and goods
procured on the basis of three quotations or shopping and the TORs for key personnel of the PCU.

The proposed organization and staffing of the PCU are satisfactory. However, in line with the new
National Procurement Law which mandates procurement units for each Government agency, the
Minister of Education has expressed interest in the eventual adoption of this group as the MEC
procurement unit for all donor-funded projects. This will not be immediately feasible, but plans will
be drawn up during Phase I in order to implement this arrangement during Phase n, thereby offering
capacity building in the procurement area for the GOP.

Most of the issues concerning the PCU have been addressed under the previous Bank-supported
project that was also managed by this Unit. The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) lack of
experience in Bank procedures for the new staff to be contracted and (ii) the loss of information from
the existing filing system, which lacks security control. A plan to address these risks is included in
the PCA report and was agreed with the PCU. It involves: (i) promoting an intensive training
program for the less experienced staff and some up-to-date training for the existing staff; (ii)
discussing the procurement plan with the Bank on an annual basis; (iii) updating the existing contract
monitoring system so as to incorporate all activities of the new project and (iv) hiring an experienced
consultant to design and help implement the new filing system. The new system will specify the
procurement documents to be filed, the PCU staff that would have access to the files, and the internal
security measures for record keeping.

The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE.

C) Procurement Plan

The Borrower has developed a procurement plan for project implementation and a preliminary plan
for the first year. The plan provides an estimate of the aggregate amounts for each procurement



                                               - 69
method (per Table A). At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will update the
Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.

D) Frequency of Procurement Supervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the PCU has recommended two full supervision missions during Phase I to visit the
field to carry out post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment
(AVERAGE), the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1 in 10 contracts
signed and at least 5 school beneficiaries.




                                            -70 
Procurement methods (Table A)



                     Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangementst
                                       (in US $ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category                              J!rocu!llment Method                 Total Cost
                                                                                       (including
                                                                                     contingencies)
                                  ICB            NCB        Other         N.B.F
1.~                                      3.92       0.25         0.14                      4.31
                                        (3.34)     (0.40)       (0.48)                     (4.22)

2.~                                  8.83           2.50         0.59                    11.92
                                    (7.21)         (2.54)       (1.14)                  (10.89)
(a) Computers,furniture, lab         3.51            1.0         0.30                     4.81
equipment, printing materials       (2.91)         (1.00)       (0.52)                   (4.43)
(b) Textbooks and library books      4.70           1.50         0.29                     6;49
                                    (4.00)         (1.15)       (0.71)                   (5.86)
(c) Vehicles                         0.62                                                 0.62
                                    (0.60)                                                (.60)
:3. C!nsull!.!!!!' ~mces                                         3.34                    3.34
includin2 audits                                                (3.02)                   (3.02)
(a) Finns                                                        1.69                     1.69
                                                                (1.60)                   (1.60)
(b) Individual Consultants                                       1.65                     1.65
                                                                (1.42)                   (1.42)
4. Tminiol! services                                             3.14                    3.14
                                                                (2.95)                   (2.95)
5. S!condarv Educati2n Grants                                    2.91                     2.91
                                                                (2.62)                   (2.62)
(a) Student Grants                                               2.40                     2.40
                                                                (2.16)                   (2.16)
(b) Institutional Development                                    0.51                     0.51
Grants for PEls and PSPs                                        (0.46)                   (0;46)
6. Qperatinl! Costs                                              0.32        0.32         0.64
                                                                (0.30)      (0.00)       (0.30)
7. Fr0nt=end fee                                                             0.24         0.24
                                                                            (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            12.75           2.75        10.44        0.56        20.50
                                    (10.85)        (2.55)       (10.60)     (0.00)      (24.00)




                                                   -71 
                              Annex 6, Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                                (in US $ million equivalent)

                                                      Selection Method                             Total Cost
          Consultant Services                                                                      (including
             Expenditure                                                                         contingencies)
              Category
                                  QCBS      QBS      SFB      LCS       CQ      Other    N.B.
                                                                                          F.
         A. Firms                 1.0                        0.70                                      1.69
                                  (0.69)                     (0.50)                                   (1.19)
         B. Individuals                                                        1.65                    1.65
                                                                               (1.15)                 (1.15)
                          Total   1.0                        0.70              1.65                    3.35
                                  (0.69)                     (0.50)            (1.15)                 (2.34)

                          Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                                 CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                                 Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
                                 Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
                                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed. 

                                 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. 





                                                          -72 



____________________________________________________________________                                         ~I'----------
             Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

        Expenditure           Contract Value             Procurement         Contracts Subject to
         Category              (Threshold)                 Method              Prior Review I
                             (US $ thousands)                                 Estimated Total
                                                                              Value Subject to
                                                                                Prior Review
                                                                               (US $ millions)

 1. Works
                                   >3,000                    ICB                       All: 3.3
                                   <3,000                    NCB            First three each year
                                    <250             Three Quotations       First two each year
 2. Goods

                                     >250                    ICB                        All:
                                     <250                    NCB            First three each year:
                                      <50                  Shopping         First two each ~ear:
 3. Services:
 Consultants
 (a) Firms                          >100                    QCBS                        All
                                    <100                     LC             All contracts estimated
                                                                            to cost >50,000
 (b) Individuals              >25 & Sole Sources See Section V of           All (TOR, contract,
                                                    Guidelines                      andCV)
                                  <25,000                                   Bi-annual programs
                          Total value of contracts subject to]trior review:              45%

Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:

 High
Average       X
 Low




                                              -73 
            Annex 6(8): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements 

                      PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM 


Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
On the basis of the assessment performed, the financial management team concludes that the present
financial management arrangements will be adequate once the project has completed the proposed action
plan (see table below). The conditions listed in the action plan should be considered as conditions for
project effectiveness. To satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements, the
arrangements should be capable of recording correctly all transactions and balances, supporting the
preparation of regular and reliable financial statements, safeguarding the entity's assets, and are subject
to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank. This assessment considered the Paraguay Financial
Management Risk Assessment (FMRA) and the relevant country portfolio performance in financial
management issues.

Given the prevalence of corrupt practices and administrative lapses at the national level, reported by the
control entities and independent surveys, this assessment concludes that inherent risk is high. However,
the control risk related to the proposed program is average and suggests that the loan implementation
should be accompanied by a close supervision plan that allows earlier detection of financial management
issues and ensures the proper use of the project funds complying with Bank fiduciary responsibilities (see
Risk Analysis below).

                          Action Plan - Executive Summary Attachment

              Action                       Responsible Entity                  Completion Date
1. Chart of accounts approved by                 PCU                          Before effectiveness
 he Bank detailing componentl
subcomponents/categories/
2. FMR format approved by the                      PCU                        Before effectiveness
Bank.
3. Accounting system in place                      PCU                        Before effectiveness
acceptable for the Bank

Implementing Entity
This program builds on the recent Bank-financed Secondary Education Improvement Project (MECES)
and will be executed through the same institutional arrangements, a PCU within the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MEC). The PCU is already established with specific staff structure for financial
management functions.

 The MEC has assured, through Resolution 353 dated March 20, 2002, the continuity of a PCU with the
 following responsibilities and authority:
  Plan, program and approve program expenditures and implementing procedures;
  Coordinate program activities with other MEC units in their agreed components and activities;
  Manage Subprogram and components execution: program systems development and its
      implementation, supervision of timely implementation, quality and output, and evaluation of the
     process and outcomes; and
  Execute and document the use of program resources, plan and manage project procurement, tender
     and shopping processes, consultant selections and staff payments, goods and services, keep the



                                                  -74 
    accounting administrative records and provide the required periodic reports.

The referred resolution creates within the PCU the following staff positions:
             E"ecutive Coordinator
             Technical Coordinator 

               Finance Coordinator 

               Procurement Coordinator
               Accountant
               Treasurer
               IT area Responsible
               Executive assistant
               Assistance services

The PCU is subject to review by the Internal audit office of the MEe, which has to review every PCU
request processed through the MEC.

The PCU will be responsible for requesting the Bank's "no-objections" for TORs, procurement plans,
consultant's short lists, selection of conSUltants, and monitoring of study and progress reports.

Staffing
The MEC and PCU have provided evidence of the assignment of skilled staff to the financial
management functions, fulfilling the organizational structure designed for the program. They have
assigneed a CPA to accounting functions, and the Finance Coordinator, Procurement and Financial
Management Coordinators have worked in the previous MECES project.

Accounting Policies and Procedures, and Flow of Funds
The PCU Administrative Coordination will maintain the accounts for the project. The accounting system
will be developed to use a unified project database for procurement finance and accounting. The accrual
accounting method will be used, which is an improvement over the cash accounting method used in the
previous project (in line with GOP accounting, Article 55, Law 1535: Financial Administration of GOP).
A chart of accounts reflecting the categories, components, sub-components and source of financing of the
project will be developed. Its completion is part of the Action Plan. The PCU also will maintain an
adequate detailed fixed asset ledger for the project.

The administrative provisions for this operation are those from the Operations Manual (OM) for the
Secondary Education Improvement Project, Loan 3941. The operations manual contains detailed
administrative procedures and comprises Annual Planning; Budgeting; Procurement; Use of Funds;
Payments, Loan Disbursements; Monitoring and Evaluation and External Audit (appropriate update for
accounting classification will be made). Controls over payment approval and release are detailed in the
OM and provide for a segregation of duties and reliable recording and reporting.

The project execution also comprises the use of the Central Government systems and control through
SICO (budgeting and accounting module of SlAF). All the entities of the central administration process
their accounting through SICO, which integrates budget and cash program control with accounting. The
accounting codes for revenue and expense are the same as those used for the budget, so there is complete
compatibility. Accounting and budgeting are kept on an accrual basis and are in line with international
accounting standards. Reliability of budget execution on the basis of obligations for the Central
Administration is ensured by the intervention of Treasury. with its control over the release of funds
which is tied into the SIAF.



                                                  -75 
The process comprises the following steps:
1.  Payment request from the PCU is included in the Central Government Integrated Accounting System
    (SICa - Sistema de Contabilidad) part of the SIAF.
2.  Transfer request (STR - Solicitud de Transferencia) and documentation is verified and signed in
    MEC.
3.  STR is presented to Ministry of Finance (MOF).
4.  MOF sends STR to the Central Bank of Paraguay (BCP).
5.  BCP deposits project funds in the project account.
6.  Checks are prepared with corresponding support and authorization.

2. Audit Arrangements
The PCU will be responsible for preparing financial statements for the project. The project will be
audited annually according to Bank model Terms of Reference (Guidelines and Terms of Reference for
Audits of Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean Region, May 1999) for
the region and will be included in the project's procurement plan, and will be conducted by auditors
considered acceptable to the Bank. The fiscal year is coincident with the calendar year, and audits will be
due each year no later than June 30. The Bank shall consider a review of the selected audit firm to ensure
the use of proper audit standards and procedures.

3. Disbursement Arrangements
The loan for the proposed program would be disbursed over an implementation period of about six
calendar years. The first phase is expected to be completed by September 30, 2006.

4. Risk Analyisis

      Inherent Risk                                        Level       Comments
                      Country Specific                     High        Governance conditions.
                      Entity Specific                      High        Governance conditions
  i                   Project Specific                     Average     Organization background of
                                                                       compliance.
      Control Risk
                      Financial Management System          Average     Upon competion of Action Plan
                                                                       System designed will be            !
                                                                       acceptable to adequately reflect
                                                                       use of funds and operations.
                      Internal Control Framework           Average     Perforrned independently by MEC
                                                                       (ex- ante).

Country Risk
Given the prevalence of corrupt practices and administrative lapses reported by the control entities and
independent surveys, as FMRA, it can only be concluded that the attitude toward control is weak and the
country inherent risk is high.

Entity's Risk
The Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) is part of the Paraguay Central Administration (GOP) so
the country considerations also apply. As stated previously, despite Paraguay's financial administration
advances, there are still great deficiencies in the independent review of the application of these systems.
The high country and entity inherent risk relate to weaknesses in the independent review; this is
adequately addressed by the additional project specific external audit requirements.




                                                    -76 
Project Risk
The inherent risk in the program is considered moderate due to the continuity of staff who are known to
the Bank and have established a record of responsible management and the general oversight provided by
the Ministry of Education in Bank projects in addition to the oversight provided by Public Credit and
Treasury. The Control Risk in the program is considered moderate because its operations are subject to
control through the Central Administration Integrated Financial Management System. and to the project
unit's dedicated systems and the project procedures as agreed and reflected in the proposed action plan.

Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
                                        Amount of the                    %of
                                        Loan Allocated               Expenditures
       Category                         (Exl2ressed in Dollars}     to be financed
(I)   Works                                  3,800,000                  90%
(2)   Goods
      (except as covered                  10,700,000                 90%
      under Categories 5
      and 6 below)
(3)   Consultants'                           2,950,000               90%
      services
      (including audits)
      (except as covered
      under Categories 5
      and 6 below)
(4)   Training                               2,800,000               85%
(5)   Goods and services for School           230,000                90%
      Development Plans
      under Part C.2 (a) of
      the Project (as financed
      through PEl Grants
(6)   Goods and services for                  230,000                90%
      Social Communities
      Subprojects under
      Part C.2 (b) of
      the Project (as financed through PSP
      Grants)
(7)   Scholarships under                     2,160,000            100% until $ 300,000
      Part C.1 of the Project                                     equivalent is
                                                                  disbursed from the
                                                                  Loan under this
                                                                  category; 90%
                                                                  thereafter
(8)   Operating Costs                         290,000                90%
(9)   Unallocated                             840,000
           TOTAL                         24,000,000
                                        -----
                                        -------
                                                  -n
Financial Reporting:
The PCU will issue quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) which will be submitted to
the Bank jointly with project progress reports. The Reports format will be agreed upon before the
program is presented to the Board, and its completion will be part of the Action Plan.

Special account:
The PCU will open and maintain a separate Special Account (SA) in dollars in a Commercial
Bank acceptable to the Bank and will operate in local currency through a separate operative
account maintained in guaranies. Monitoring of the account will follow the process described
above using the Central Government systems and control through SICO (Budgeting and
accounting module of SlAP).




                                              -78 
                            Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                        PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM




                                                         06107/2001                        0610712001
Aplf)raiisal mission departure                           04/0212003
                                                         0412112003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                            09/30/2003

Prepared by:
the Bank team (see staff members below), a group of highly qualified consultants and a dedicated team of
over 100 technical and administrative staff members from the Ministry of Education and Culture. In
addition, focus group interviews, questionnaires and regional and national seminars with an extensive
number of key stakeholders informed the design of many of the components.


Preparation assistance:
A PHRD grant was approved in the amount of US$540,OOO to carry out preparation studies and activities.
The following consultants provided technical assistance:

    Antonio Pereira (Education Specialist)
    Federico Mejer (Planning and Administration Specialist)
    Juan AguIla (Administration Specialist)
    Vilma Guimaraes (Education Specialist - alternative secondary education program)
    Celia Farias (Education Specialist - alternative secondary education program)
    Marina Velazco Parra (Local coordinator for beneficiary consultation and teacher training)
    Magela Carli Castellano (Local coordinator for beneficiary consultation and teacher training)
    Sebastian Galiani (Economist - specialist in design of scholarship programs)
    Raul Talan (Specialist in Technical Education and Professional Studies)
    Universidad Cat6lica de Nuestra Senora de Asunci6n (Curriculum reform)
    ALECOPIMondrag6n (Teacher training)
    ProAgro (School mapping)
    Ruf Aguiar (Planning and Administration Specialist - decentralizaiton)
    Gabriel Portillo (Lawyer)
    Vicente Brunetti (Communications Specialist)
    Mario Alvarez (Communications Specialist).

The following additional consultants were hired by the Bank to provide technical assistance:
   Jose Molinas (Economist - economic and financial analyses)
   Andrea Staeheli (Evaluation Specialist - beneficiary consultation)
   Luis Secco (Architect)
   Gordon Temple (Facilitator for Systemic Design of Projects).




                                                 -79 
Cynthia Hobbs         Task Team Leader and Education Specialist
Aracelly Woodall      Costing and Program Assistant
Marfa Lucy Giraldo    Procurement
Antonio Blasco        Financial Management
Eduardo Brito         Legal
Madalena Dos Santos   Education; Peer Reviewer
Bruce Jones           Economist; Peer Reviewer
Veronica Jarrin       Team Assistant
Suhas Parandekar      Economist
Marcelo Becerra       Economist
Luz Meza-Bartrina     Legal




                              - 80
                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                       PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM


A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Operational Manual

Project Financial Management Manual


B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Assistance Strategy, Republic of Paraguay, March 6, 1997.

Paraguay Country Procurement Assessment Report (draft), October 2002.

Paraguay Country Social Analysis (draft), April 2003.

Paraguay Financial Management Risk Assessment (draft), January 2003.

Paraguay Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper - "Estrategia Nacional de Reduccion de la Pobreza y la
Desigualdad," November 2002.

Paraguay: Revisi6n del Gasto PUblico Social, Abril 2002.


C. Other
Boletfn Estadfstico - 1998, 1999. Ministerio de Educaci6n y Culto, Subsecretaria de Estado de
Educaci6n. Asunci6n, Paraguay.

Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n y Cultura. Lfneas Fundamentales de la Reforma de la Educaci6n Media.
Asunci6n, Paraguay. Julio 2001.

Situaci6n de la Educaci6n en el Paraguay. Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n y Cultura. Asunci6n,
Paraguay. Mayo 2002.

Eficiencia y Calidad en la Educaci6n Secundaria en Paraguay. Jose Molinas. Asunci6n, Paraguay. Junio
2002.

Experiencias Significativas de las Asociaciones de Cooperaci6n Escolar-ACEs. Asunci6n:
MEC/ISEIMECES. Junio 2001.

Galiani, Sebastian. Disefio y Evaluaci6n del Programa Nacional de Becas para la Escuela Media en
Paraguay. Asunci6n, Paraguay. Mayo 2002.

Informe sobre la Situaci6n de la Educaci6n Paraguaya. Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n y Cultura.
Asuncioo, Paraguay. Junio 2000.

Informe 1999, Resultado de las Pruebas Nacionales, Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n del Proceso


                                                 - 81 
Educativo (SNEPE), Ministerio de Educa.cion y Culto. Asuncion, Paraguay. 


Ley N" 1.264/98 "General de Educa.cion." Asuncion, Paraguay. 


Paraguay 2020, Plan Estrategico de la Refonna Educativa. MECI Consejo Asesor de la Refonna 

Educatival HllD. Junio 1996. 


Plan Na.cional de Comunica.cion Participativa para Fortalecer la Refonna de la Educa.cion Media en 

Paraguay: Desarrollo de la Sociedad del Conocimiento, de la Infonnacion y de la Comunica.cion en 

Paraguay. Plan 2003 - 2008. Vicente Brunetti. Asuncion, January 2003. 


Programa Na.cional de Becas para la Escuela Media en Paraguay, informe elaborado para el Banco 

Mundial. Equipo de Trabajo a cargo de Sebastian Galiani, Asuncion, Paraguay. Noviembre 2002. 


Proposta de Metodologia para uma Forma~ao Continuada. Vilma Guimariies e Celia Farias, Asuncion, 

Paraguay. Fevrero 2003. 


Proyecto de Ley No. 2051103: Ley de Contrataciones PUblicas, Asuncion, Paraguay. Febrero 2003. 


Proyecto de Reglamentacion del Estatuto del Educador. Asuncion, Paraguay. Febrero 2003. 


Proyecto de "Revision y Desarrollo de los Curricula de la Educa.cion Media'" I Informe y 

Fundamenta.cion, Universidad Catolica "Nuestra Senora de la Asuncion", Diciembre 2002. 


Proyecto de "Revision y Desarrollo de los Curricula de la Educacion Media; II Ba.chilleratos Cientfficos, 

Universidad Catolica "Nuestra Senora de la Asuncion", Diciembre 2002. 


Proyecto de "Revision y Desarrollo de los Curricula de la Educacion Media; m Bachilleratos Tecnicos, 

Universidad Catolica "Nuestra Senora de la Asuncion", Diciembre 2002. 


Proyecto de "Revision y Desarrollo de los Curricula de la Educacion Media; N Ba.chilleratos Tecnicos, 

Universidad Cat6lica "Nuestra Senora dela Asuncion", Diciembre 2002. 


Servicios de Consultoria para la Actualizacion del Mapa Educativo Na.cional. PRO AGRO S.R.L., 

Asuncion, Paraguay. Diciembre 2002. 


Sistema de Forma.ci6n Continua Docente con Enfasis en la Educa.cion Media. Informe Ejecutivo. 

alecop/Mondragon, Asuncion, Paraguay, February 2003. 


Staheli, Marfa Andrea, M. Velazco y M. Carli. Las Voces de los Actores (beneficiary consultation). 

Asuncion, Paraguay. 2002. 


"Including electronic files




                                                  - 82
                                            Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                        PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM
                                                      26-Jun-2003
                                                                                                                                        Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                                  and actual
                                                                      O/Iginal Amount in US$ Millions                                          disbursements'
 Project 10   FY      Purpose                                    IBRD          lOA                                 Cancel.      Undlsb.        Ollg Frm Reii'd
                                                                     9.00       0.00                                   0.00           9.00          1.72        0.62
P039883       1998 Py 4th RURAl.. WATER   sumy & SMlfTATlON         40.00          0.00                                0.00          28.90       28.49         28.28
P007927       1997 PY-M.HlTWCHD.OV.                                 21.80          0.00                                0.00           2.36          2.25        2.24
P007926       1995   Py ASUNCION SEWERAGE                           46.50          0.00                               15.00            8.14        23.14        3.17
P007916       1994 Py Nil. RES MGMT I                               50.00          0.00                                0.00          18.98         16.98       16.98

                                                        Total:    167.30        0.00                                  15.00          65.37         72.57       51.27




                                                                 PARAGUAY
                                                         STATEMENT OF IFe's
                                                       Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                              May 30-2003
                                                           In Millions US Dollars

                                                                                 Committed                                               Disbursed
                                                                               IFC                                                     IFC
     FY Approval                Company                                 Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partie           Loan        Equity           Quasi       Partie


                                          Total Portfolio:              0.00          0.00          0.00       0.00             0.00          0.00           0.00        0.00



                                                                             Approvals Pending Commitment
     FY Approval                Company                                     Loan          Equity           Quasi         Partie


                                Total Pending Commitment:                   0.00             0.00           0.00              0.00




                                                                    -83
                                            Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                                      PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM
                                                                '--
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                                                 middle
                                                                                                   1ncome
2001
Population, mid-veer (mH/IOIJS)                                             5.6           524         2,164                         Life expectancy
GNI per capila (Atlas method, US$)                                        1,350         3,560         1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                            7.6         1.862         2,677
Average an.nusl growth,       1~1

Population (%)                                                              2:6            1.5           1.0
Labor force (%)                                                             3.2            2.2           1.2        GNI                                         Gross
                                                                                                                    per                                        primary
IIoct recent elltlmate (late8tyuravallabla. 11J95.01)                                                               capita                                  enrollment
POIIerty (% of population belOw natIonBI poverty line)
Urban population (% of totsI population)                                     57            76            46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                             70            70            69
Infant mortality (f)6f 1,00Q I/V(I bIIths)                                   23            29            33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 6)                                                  9            11                  Acoess to improved watar source
Access to an improved watar IIOUro& (% of. popuiafJon)                       79            85            80
1.llteracy (% of popuIatlona.qe 15+)                                          8            11            15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ege P!lI)Ii/a/lon)                    115           130           107              -Paraguay
  Male                                                                      117           131           107                     Lower-middle-income group
  Female                                                                    114           128           107

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                             1981         1119t         2000,         2001
                                                                                                                     Economic ratios
GOP (US$ billions)                                              5.8         6..2           7.7           7..2
Gross domestic Investment/GOP                                 31.6         24.8          25.6          23.7
                                                                                                                                          Trade
Exports of goods and servlceslGDP                             11.5         30..2         21.0          23.3
Gross domestic saviflllSiGOP                                  19.9         16.8          12.6           6.8
Gross national sevingslGDP                                    21.2         15.9          15.6          10.5
Cunent account balanceiGOP                                   -11;3          1,4           -0.9         -3.3
                                                                                                                    Domestic
Interest paymentsIGOP                                          0.8          1.5           1.3           1.8
                                                                                                                    savings
Total debllGOP                                                19.9         33.1          40.2          39.0
Total~se~~                                                    21.8         10.0           9.9          10.6
Present value of debtlGOP                                                                38.2
Presant valUe of debtlexportS                                                            87.3
                                                                                                                                      Indebtedness
                                             1981-91      199HI1          2000          2001       2001-05
(average annual growth)
GOP                                                2.8          2.0        .(1.3           2.7           0.7             -Paraguay
GOP per capita                                    .(1.3        -0.6        -2.8            0.2          -3.9              -- ~-.- Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                     12.7         -4.7       -31.6           -0.4           1.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                             1981         1991          2000          2001          Growth of invMtment and GDP (%1
(%ofGDP)
A!lriculture
Industry
  Manufacturing
Services 
Private consumption
                                                              27.0
                                                              27.9
                                                              16.3
                                                              45.1
                                                              73.4
                                                                           26.6
                                                                           25.3
                                                                           16.5
                                                                           48.2
                                                                           76.6
                                                                                         20.4
                                                                                         26.1
                                                                                         13.4
                                                                                         53.5
                                                                                         76.9
                                                                                                       20.3
                                                                                                       26.1
                                                                                                       13.4
                                                                                                       53.6
                                                                                                       82.1
                                                                                                                    "j
                                                                                                                     ~e~
                                                                                                                   .,.
                                                                                                                   40
General QOIIemment oonsumplion                                 6.7          6.6          10.5           9.1
Imports of goods and services                                 23.2         38.2          34.0          38.2

                                                          1981-91     tll91.(1t         2000          2001          Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
AgricullUre                                                    3.5          2.4           -4.7           2.2        ro
Industry                                                       1.7          3.0            2.8           2.5
  Manufacturing                                                2.3          0.7            1.0           2.5
Services                                                       3.0          1.2            0.6           3.1
Private consumption                                            2.8          3.2           3.5            7.9
General government consumption                                 3.5          4.7           4.5         -11.0
Gross domastlc investment                                      1.3         -1.3          -4.3         -16.0
Imports of goods and services                                  8.5         -0.5         -11.7          -1.6

Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
 The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) comparad with its incomBilFOUP a.erage. II data are missing, the diamond will be iflCOfrCllete.




                                                                                   - 84
                                                                                                                                   Paraguay
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1981      1991       2000       2001    Inflation (%)
Dom6stic prices 

(%change) 

Consumer prices                                      24.3         8.9       7,3
Implicit GOP deflator                       16,3     24.8        11.8       7.0
Government timmce 

(% of GDP, includes current grants) 

Current revenue                                       11.8       15.3      16.3                96        97                  99        00
Current budget balance                                 2.4       -0,7       1.7               - G O P deflator
Overall surplus/deficit                               -0.2       -4.2       1.0

TRADE
                                           1981      1991       2000       2001
                                                                                   , Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 1,110      2,251      2,463
 Soy products                                         157        286        313
  Cotton                                              319         78         86
 Manufactures                                         372      1,380      1,510
Total imports (cifl                                 1,868      2,837      2,959
  Food                                                592        989      1,032
  Fuel and energy                                     130        173        181
  Capital goods                                       550        471        491
Export price indeK (199&100)
Import price index (1995=1(0)
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1981      1991       2000       2001    ICurrent;;;'ount b8:iance toGDP(%)~~"-'
rUss millions)
ExportS of !lOOdS and services 
             686    2,430      2,963      3,062    o
Imports of !lOOdS and services 
           1,339    2,381      3,262      3,424
Resource balance 
                          .e73       50       -299       -362
Net income 
                                 16       -10           54      40
Net current transfers 
                       3        45        In         166
Current account balance 
                  .e54        85         .e9      236
FinanCing items (net) 
                     686       214       -144        113
Chan!=l8s in net reserves 
                 32      299        213        123

Memo: 

Reserves including Aold (US$ millions) 
              974        783        660
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocaVUS$) 
          126.0   1,325.2    3,486.4    4,105.9

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1981      1991       2000       2001
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,148    2.066      3,101      2,809
  IBRD 
                                     110      252        201        205
  IDA 
                                       47       40           28       2:1
Total debt service                          168       258        335        358
  IBRD 
                                     11        64         29         25
  IDA 
                                       1         1          2          2
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                                      D:902
  OffiCial grants                            13        19         26          o
  Official credltors                         59        38         89          o
  Private creditors                          49       54       100        91
  Foreign direct Investment                  32        86           76      131
  PortfoliO eqUity                            o         o            3        o                                    E:406
World Bank program
 CcmmHments                                   o         o            o        o     A - IBRD                                      E  Bilateral
 Disbursements                               37         9           47       2:1    B - IDA         0 - Olher multilateral        F - Private
 Principal repayments                         4        41           20       15     C - IMF                                       G - Short-term
 Net flows                                   33       -32           26       12
 Interest payments                            7        24           11       11
 Net translers                               25       56           16        o
DeVelopment EconOlmcs                                                                                                                       911l1tr2




                                                             - 85
                                 Additional Annex 11:
                                 Institutional Analysis
                       PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM

The Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) has designed a new program, to be partially financed by
the World Bank (through an APL). This program is a follow-up to the Secondary Education Improvement
Project and will improve the efficiency of the sector and support the recently enacted Secondary
Education Reform program. Many of the planned activities address education management needs with
corresponding policy objectives. These objectives have been established under different processes of
modernization of the State, provoking management changes and re-orientation of organizational
structures pointing in the direction of decentralized management of the education system (legal
decentralization framework approved in 2000).

In this context, a study was conducted, within the framework of the Program preparation, to evaluate the
institutional capacity of the MEC at its different levels to implement the reforms necessary to guarantee
the provision of equitable, efficient, and high quality education, in line with the strategic activities
selected for the proposed Program. The study sought to answer the following question: how should the
MEC be reorganized to enable it to provide assistance and to operate in such a way that it can develop an
efficient and effective education system? In other words, what are the requirements (in terms of
organization, processes, and management) of a new MEC structure that supports the development of a
decentralized education system? The study looks at the variables where interventions could and should
be present to support more autonomous and efficient management at the school level.

Bearing this question in mind, an analysis was done of: 0) organizational structures; Oi) management
processes and technologies; (iii) human resource management (from an administrative and pedagogical
standpoint); (iv) planning models and practices; and (v) the presence or absence of factors that permit the
attainment of quality education.

(i) Organizational Structures
The results of this study suggest that despite Paraguay's efforts to decentralize the management of
education, the actual operational model continues to be centralized. The decentralization process has
clearly not been accompanied by a reorganization at the central MEC level, nor by the revisions in
administrative procedures to properly facilitate state (departmental) management of education or real
support to schools. Though education councils (Consejos Departamentales Educativos - CDEs),
statistical units (Unidades Departamentales de Estadfstica               UDEs) and supervision groups
(Coordinaciones Departamentales de Supervision - CDS) have been established at the state level, they
do not receive the proper support to fully carry out their responsibilities, nor is their work appropriately
oriented to support school communities needs. In fact, in states where the COEs, DOEs and CDS have
come together under a pilot program, the study indicates that the model is appropriate to carry out the
objectives of the reform program and is capable of efficiently accompanying the transformation process
in the framework of decentralized management of education. The problem does not lie in the "design" of
the decentralized model, but rather, in its implementation.

At the MEC central level, the current personnel is not well matched to the necessary profile to carry out
the proposed Program's objectives. There is a high proportion of administrative staff (70%) in relation to
the professional (l 0%) and technical staff (20%). Transfer of some of the administrative staff to COEs
would even out the differences and strengthen the state offices.




                                                  - 86
(ii) Management Processes and Technologies
In this day and ag, it is not possible to conform to traditional education administration; it is necessary to
manage complex public policies of transformation. Paraguay's current administrative procedures are not
suited to guarantee the efficient management of strategic educational resources. An important expansion
of participation by key stakeholders in school processes (such as construction of classrooms, oversight of
new facilities, upcoming role in school planning, etc.) has led to cycles of motivation followed by great
frustration, since changes in the management process have not matched expectations for stakeholder
participation.

The main problem that stands in the way of decentralization is the complex bureaucracy of resource
management processes, which impede the smooth transfer of funds from the central level to the
departmental and school levels. The absence of appropriate standards allows for discretional
administrative practices in the allocation of strategic sector resources (teachers, infrastructure, equipment
and didactic materials), transgressing the implementation of objective and equitable resource allocation.
Centralized decisions regarding resource allocation leave schools' needs untended, since the centralized
processes are slow and cumbersome.

There is insufficient provision of information and communications technologies for proper management
at the central and state levels. The technologies used to support management processes are inadequate
and highly obsolete, and physical organization, distribution, and location of workplaces poses a problem
due largely to their high level of dispersion. Central level MEC offices are spread out in over 20 different
locations across Asuncion, and state CDEs, UDEs and CDSs often occupy spaces in different buildings
or even different towns, depending on the availability of Government properties. The concentration of
strategic central level MEC units under one roof, and the physical consolidation of state-level CDEs,
UDEs and CDSs would greatly improve management efficiency.

(iii) Human Resource Management
The study addresses two aspects of human resource management: (a) administrative management of
sector personnel and (b) organization of teachers' work.

Administrative management of human resources is perhaps one of the most complex problems and
urgently requires resolution. A serious revision of personnel procedures would therefore be necessary.
The personnel information databases should include all the data necessary to support decision-making
processes relating to selection, hiring and assignment of MEC staff (including central and state
administrative and technical staff, teachers and school directors). The established applications and
procedures should guarantee timely updating of personnel information.

In terms of the organization of teaching responsibilities, namely the concentration of these
responsibilities in a single institution, it is important to bear in mind that this process should be a gradual
one that begins with the "concentration of the hourly workload," (concentracion de carga horaria) and
ends with the definition of a hybrid model that includes: (i) full-time responsibilities within the
institution, which, in addition to teaching hours, involve other coordination activities and; (ii) part-time
teaching, applicable to persons who teach only a certain number of hours depending on the classes
assigned to them.

(iv) Planning Models and Practices
Although the MEC's Office of Statistical Planning and Evaluation can be considered one of the best
organized areas of the central Ministry, there is a need to begin a micro-planning process at the state and
school levels, tapping into the potential offered by the UDEs and the new school development plans
(Plan Educativo Institucional - PEl). This will allow school communities to define their priorities and


                                                    - 87
development action plans and will facilitate access to an important source of internal savings by allowing
for: (a) better distribution of sector resources; (b) more equitable distribution of human, physical and
financial resources; and (c) improved and updated information systems. The analysis done of the
"students per class" at the secondary level suggests that greater efficiencies can be achieved in terms of
the assignment of classes without overcrowding classrooms. The existing margin of flexibility can be
used effectively to bolster existing resources, without greatly compromising the quality of the
educational process.

(v) Factors that Permit the Attainment of Quality Education

The study identifies the factors that permit students to attain higher achievement levels and that
differentiate overall school performance. Though the study does not answer these questions, it points out
the importance of identifying strategies to assist schools in achieving better quality education.

Conclusions of the study:

In light of the foregoing, priority should be given to improving the management of the MEC and carrying
out significant revisions in current management procedures. This includes: (i) the identification and
actual adoption of the management model to be developed, as well as the implementation of those factors
that are critical to its application (streamlining of procedures, allocation of resources, incorporation of
management technologies); (ii) a comprehensive review of its organizational structure (identifying
specifically hierarchical and functional relationships); (iii) the drafting and application of standards and
procedures related to the management of strategic resources (human resources, expansion of supply,
needs-based planning); (iv) the strengthening of local and state planning entities; and (v) support to
schools to create and carry out their school development plans (PEls) through the provision of technical
assistance by the state oversight entities (CDEs, UDEs and CDS) and teacher training institutions (IFDs).

Project Support for Institutional Reform

Among the array of activities to be supported by the Paraguay Education Reform Program, several
directly address the institutional issues outlined above:

(i) Organizational Structures
The state level organization of CDEs, UDEs and CDS will be expanded and strengthened under the
proposed Program, and necessary changes will be made at the central level to enable more effective
implementation of the state organizational structure.

(ii) Management Processes and Technologies
The Program will provide computer equipment to CDEs, UDEs and CDS, and management training to
school directors and ACE members. This training will assist school community members in the
elaboration of their school development plans (PEls). The PEls will guide allocation of resources to
schools, and early identification of needs should improve timely provision of those resources. To
improve coordination and communications, the Program will provide funds to rehabilitate Government
spaces in order to consolidate the CDEs, UDEs and CDS under one roof in each state. The GOP is
seeking ways to bring central MEC offices together, and the Program will provide equipment for key
units to establish tied information systems.

(iii) Human Resource Management
The Program will assist the MEC in its efforts to integrate the current administrative systems to track the
professional development of teachers and directors and facilitate better verification and monitoring of


                                                   - 88
human resource management processes for all education professionals. A certification system will be
established to monitor teachers' professional development and career paths. and a new accreditation
system will monitor the quality of teacher training institutes (1T1s) and control the number per region.
The MEC is currently drawing up a resolution to improve the coordination and transparency of hiring at
all levels. as well as a proposal for a shift from hourly wage pay to hiring for specific teaching positions.

(iv) Planning Models and Practices
The UDEs will receive further training in the collection and analysis of sector data, and better use of data
at all levels will be promoted through training at the school. state and central levels. The PEls will be
used to determine schools' needs, and allocation of resources should be more in accordance with schools'
demands. Ongoing micro-planning will be supported to assist the MEC in better distributing its resources
and allowing for expansion of the secondary education system.

(v) Factors that Permit the AttlIinment ofQUIl/ity Education
Key to the improvement of quality is better support to schools to carry out their teaching functions.
Integration of the CDEs. UDEs and CDS will tie their services and allow for more comprehensive
support to schools. lIDEs will provide school communities with updated information regarding school
and student performance in order to inform the planning process of the PEls which will determine the
development objectives and resource needs (for teachers. of didactic materials. upgrading of spaces. etc.).
The supervision pilot which has focused supervisors' attention on pedagogical needs of teachers will be
expanded. and CDSs will liaise with teacher training institutes to better orient training to teachers' needs.




                                                   - 89
                       Additional Annex 12: Beneficiary Consultation
                       PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM

Background

In preparation for the Education Reform Program, a beneficiary assessment study I was conducted
throughout the country. It emphasized various aspects of teacher training as it related to the education
system: The initiative not only fits the technical program purposes but shows the increasing efforts being
made by Ministry of Education and Culture (MEq authorities to involve state and local education
stakeholders.

Methodology

A total of 1,253 education stakeholders (teachers, school principals, teacher training students, teacher
trainers, teacher training institute directors, parents of schoolchildren, and education leaders and experts)
in 13 of Paraguay's 17 states (departments), plus the capital city of Asunci6n, were asked to fill out a
questionnaire (96.2%) or interviewed (3.8%, parents and education leaders/experts). The consultation
focused on the following topics: education system management, state education management,
communications, teacher training institutes, teacher training systems, and teachers' working conditions.
The results section below highlights some of the most important findings.

Results

L Teacher training institutes (TIls) deserve a more: (a) equitable treatment in terms of infrastructure
with minimum operation standards. The most serious needs identified refer to didactic materials, modem
education technologies and computers; (b) updated and realistic institutional budget with greater
flexibility on how to spend their resources; and (c) decentralized approach and space for generating part
of their own resources.

2. Teacher training curriculum needs to be updated and its methodologies should avoid rote learning
approaches. A competency-oriented organization (particularly in the development of continuous learning)
and more scientific methodologies must be the key institutional concern. Schoolteachers are the most
critical of the training they received.

3. TTIs and authorities should establish a more open and transparent management strategy so that
students and teachers will be consulted or informed about key measures related to quality institutional
performance.

4. TTIs should be subject to a permanent evaluation system to assess their ongoing quality in terms of
curriculum, everyday processes, and the end result shown in the profile of effective and efficient TIl
graduates (teachers) working at schools.

5. One of the most strikingly negative consequences of the Basic Education Reform policy (and political)
changes has been the excess of initial training places for some areas (initial and basic levels) in TIls, and
scarcity in other areas, mainly secondary education. In terms of quality, public TIls are clearly favored
over the privates ones. An accreditation agency for TIls is required to foster institutional quality and
ultimately discipline the supply and demand effort.




                                                   - 90
6. Beneficiaries highlighted three experiences: (a) the creation of the State Education Councils (CDEs),
although they still lack the necessary operational conditions; (b) the National System for the Educational
Process Evaluation (SNEPE for Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de los Procesos Educativos); and (c)
the Pilot Teacher Training Program which heralded some of the features now incorporated into the
proposed Continuous Teacher Training System. Participants stressed the need for evaluation of and
support for the three experiences.

7. The concept of a continuous teacher training system has gained support among all the education
sectors. It appears to be the best approach to the upgrading of teacher education and performance, and
student learning. Beneficiaries highlighted the curriculum and organization of the desired continuous
teacher training system to be designed.

8. The selection process for schoolteachers and teacher trainers should go beyond formal criteria
(academic titles, unchecked personal experiences) to include other traits such as proven teaching skills,
commitment, and community concern.

9. Training and selection of teacher trainers deserves systematic attention. Only specialized trainers
should be recruited, and current trainers should undergo rigorous academic training to catch up with new
teaching needs (content and methodology programs) and demands both at TIIs and at schools.

10. Central MEC management, in spite of recent improvements, has followed a rather centralized way of
dealing with the states and other sub-central groups. Key suggestions for a reversal in its relations were
communication, information, transparency, and continuity.

11. Education policies have changed often and unpredictably over the past decade. As a result, teacher
training has also followed unsystematic trends and unplanned fads, leaving behind a feeling of policy
inconsistency and technical amateurism.

12. Recent decentralizing efforts must be invigorated, especially toward strengthening the CDEs in
operational terms, as well as the supervision process. Both signify a boost for c1oseHo-school
participation, ownership and academic achievement.

13. The beneficiary assessment effort was seen as one of the best and most convincing symptoms of the
recent disposition and capacity of the MEC to stress and support stakeholder motivation and abilities in
view of c1oser-to-school and more meaningful community and local leadership responsibility for school
success. Throughout the country the beneficiary assessment study participants insisted on being informed
about the results of the study.

 'Maria Andrea Staheli, con Marina Velazco y Magela Carli. Las Voces de los Actores (The Actors' Voices). 

Asunci6n, Ministerio de Educaci6n y Cultura, 2002. 

l Other key aspects covered by the Project have been object of special preparatory studies. 





                                                     - 91 
                 Additional Annex 13: Letter of Sector Development Policy
                      PARAGUAY: EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM

Translation (see original following this translation)

Nicanor Duarte Frutos
President Elect
Republic of Parguay
Herrninio Maldonado entre Sucre y Lillo
Asunci6n, Paraguay

                                                             Asunci6n, May 28, 2003

Mr. Axel F. N. van Trotsenburg
Country Director for Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
Buenos Aires, Argentina

Dear Mr. van Trotsenburg:

         I am writing to inform you of the policies and commitments to be assumed by the State for the
effective implementation of the new Education Reform Project, with emphasis on secondary education [
educaci6n media].
         Over the past decade, education reform policy has been the only area, within the sphere of public
initiatives, in which there have been clear ideas regarding goals and specific identification of problems to
be remedied, among them a major lag in relation to most countries, coupled with the greater complexities
and demands generated by this situation in terms of new human, pedagogical, and institutional resources.
The education reform program is also affected by the worsening economic, social, and political crisis that
Paraguay is currently experiencing. As a result of this crisis, the momentum of the reform process that
was evident during the early period of the transition has slowed.

        The education reform program [begun in 1994] has resulted in a major restructuring of basic
education to encompass nine mandatory grades, and the first cohort of students has already started
secondary education. This expansion has made it possible for approximately one million students to enter
the school system in fewer than ten years. In terms of quality, the gap in learning achievement between
urban and rural students has narrowed, demonstrating that when a school improves its conditions,
learning and development opportunities for the most vulnerable sectors are enhanced.

         The Secondary Education Improvement Project (MECES-MEC-BIRF) has supported the
implementation of the third Basic Education (EEB) cycle (grades 7-9, formerly the first cycle of
secondary education). Among its most noteworthy achievements has been the preparation and free
distribution of high quality bilingual texts.

        The construction of new physical spaces and the improvement of these spaces, the training of
teachers in new curricular areas and in the development of a new institutional culture, as well as the
establishment of parent associations (ACEs), have played an important role in encouraging the
participation of families in education. We are proud of this accomplishment, which continues to show
strong potential for the transformation of schooling, as evidenced by its extension to all the EEB cycles.




                                                   - 92
        The new innovative school projects (PIEs) paved the way for a new culture of working through
projects. Another important achievement was the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Education
and Culture (MEC) through the establishment of a Statistical Information System, the education map, and
the installation of the National System for Evaluation of the Education Process (SNEPE). The
information that can be accessed through this system made it possible to construct a reliable diagnosis
which was used as the basis for preparation of a strategic plan for the reform and the design of the
national curriculum. The MECES project has significantly enhanced the information base for
decision-making in the area of education policy. The information system of the MEC is a source that is
now used by national and international organizations, universities and researchers.

        The financing of education reform has been facilitated primarily by loans from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the World Bank. The loans have made it possible to
supplement the investment category, an area that was underfunded in the MEC's budget, and thus to
achieve simultaneously the innovations, expansions, and quality improvements in education reform
projects of the order needed in Paraguay. International loans provide the means to strengthen the reform
programs and to make ongoing improvements to the education system in a country with a high rate of
population growth and major needs for expansion of the current secondary education system.

          The new Government pledges to give priority to education in its agenda for transformation, not
only because of the situation that the country is facing, but also because it is convinced that education is
critical to improvement of the quality of life of the population, inasmuch as it will foster a greater sense
of personal identity, well-being, safety, and freedom.

         We feel strongly that improving education offers a way to restore the dignity of the Paraguayan
people and to prepare new generations to participate in the development of a country where opportunities
are available to everyone. We know that the level of development of a country depends in large measure
on the quality of secondary education. Consequently, secondary education reform is essential if the other
policies are to be sustainable.

        In this context, the goals of the new Government are to strengthen the components of the
education reform program and to introduce the structural, institutional and cultural changes to enhance its
efficiency aJ)d substantially improve quality and equity. We highlight the efforts made to give impetus to
the process of decentralization of education, which is based on the deconcentration of activities
undertaken by the MEC in recent years. These activities have laid the foundation for the educational
commmity to be more active and assume greater responsibility at the state level and in redefined civil
society~State   relations, a process that will bolster and facilitate continuation of the gradual
decentralization process.

                                        Education Refonn Goals

         The goals of the Education Reform Program are to achieve universal pre-school education and
access to basic education by 2008, to reduce the repetition rate in the first two cycles of EEB to 7.3% and
in the third cycle to 1.2%, and to reduce the dropout rate in the first and second cycles to 4.7% and in the
third cycle to 7.3%. At the same time, efforts will be continued to improve the quality of educational
achievement by reducing disparities between urban and rural areas.

         The 2008 goals for secondary education are to increase coverage to 59%, to reduce the repetition
rate to 0.9% and the dropout rate to 6%, to ensure a minimum completion rate for the third cycle of 83%,
and to achieve learning outcomes of at least 60% for the language arts and 46% for math.



                                                   - 93
         The design of the Education Reform Project with emphasis on secondary education, presented
into two phases (Adaptable Program Loan), is aimed at the gradual introduction into the system of the
changes that are required to facilitate learning and the gradual strengthening and ownership of processes
of change by the actors involved. The goal is to set in motion a vibrant, transparent, and self-regulated
process of change, drawing upon the lessons learned during the course of the project, while enhancing
credibility and confidence. An effort is being made to introduce the idea of reform as a complex
endeavor that is learned through processes, but with clearly identifiable goals or milestones to mark the
first phase.

        The objectives of secondary education reform are to:

   Improve capacity for planning, management, evaluation, and communications at the central level of
    the MEe, within regional (state/departmental) entities, and in schools, in order to achieve greater
    efficiency in the sector.

   Design and implement a system of continuous training, certification, and accreditation of
    professionals in the field of education.

   Train new leaders in the field of education, including a critical mass to spearhead the reform process.

   Increase equitable access, and improve the quality of results and the management of secondary
    education.

        The following are the main components of the project that will permit attainment of the 

objectives and goals: 


        1.      Institutional development of the system:

        (i)   Management of the system, which consists of the redesign of administrative and
        management processes and the linkage of the databases with a view to efficient management.

        (ii)     Training of teaching staff: (a) training of 100 professionals at the master's level in
        different areas of education; (b) continuing initial training, which involves changing the
        paradigm regarding the training of professionals in the field of education. Basic training is
        defined as the starting point of a teaching career and is linked with subsequent in-service
        training; (c) continuing in-service training, which seeks to offer regular training to improve and
        develop skills on an ongoing basis for persons who are exercising their profession, based on their
        educational needs and in keeping with scientific developments and the different areas of
        knowledge.

                 This change in paradigm with respect to training is the result of a critical analysis of the
        strategies applied to the MECES project, coupled with a review of the most successful strategies
        in the region and world. The country has learned that the greatest change to be achieved by the
        reform must be in the area of continuing training, in order to ensure that other changes are viable
        and sustainable.




                                                   - 94
            2. .    Improvement of secondary education:

            (i)     Educational resources: learning resource centers, science laboratories and textbooks for
            students in the main areas of the new curriculum; and

            (ii)   Socio-educational strategies: the goal is to use these resources to enhance access to
            knowledge and opportunities for scientific research for young people.

            3.      Expansion of access to secondary education by means of:

            (i)     Scholarships for students in extreme poverty;

            (ii)    the availability of new opportunities for alternative secondary education with support
            from the Project for a new form of education;

            (iii)    expansion of formal secondary education through construction and equipment of five
            model schools in the country. These new schools will showcase the new secondary school
            identity, from a pedagogical, institutional, and physicaVenvironmental standpoint.

             The project includes verifiable progress indicators for phases land 2. A document related to
    these indicators is included (Annex 1), and shows the objective for dividing the project in two phases, the
    first of which is devoted to the establishment of systems for improving the efficiency of the sector and
    the introduction of various pilot activities, while the second will implement the administrative systems
    and expand the pilot projects.

            The project will include mechanisms for ongoing feedback through evaluation and monitoring, a
    process that will facilitate the methodological corrections and changes required in the execution of the
    processes. The indicators of the first phase are the reference points or parameters that serve as criteria for
    evaluating and drawing lessons, which will be taken into account during the expansion of the second
    phase.

           The project costs, as well as its categories and sources of financing, are attached to this letter (see
    Annex 3 and Annex 6, Table Co/this Project Appraisal Document/or negotiated amounts).

    Commitments of the new Government to facilitate the Project and the Education Reform:

        The Ministry of Education will arrange for the institutional resources needed to fulfill the
mandate of the new Government with respect to the establishment of a single procurement office for
externally funded projects. This change will be effected in accordance with legal provisions and will be
part of the process of change aimed at improving the management of the system and transparent
accountability.

        The new Government will give priority to the institutional reform of the MEe, and to formulate
and execute sectoral policies that improve education in Paraguay. In this regard, mention is made of the
following points that are considered important in order to achieve the goals of the new project with the
World Bank:

      Ensuring financing in order to execute the project successfully. The measures to be taken consist



                                                       - 95
    largely of two activities: (i) increasing education expenses annually in relation to GDP as follows:
    4.5 percent in 2004 and 4.7 percent in 2006. This goal pertains only to the educational services
    offered by the MEC; and (ii) increasing non-wage recurrent expenditure to at least 10 percent during
    the third cycle of the EBB and secondary education. The annual proportion of non-wage recurrent
    expenditure in the general budget of the sector stands at 20 percent, although for the levels
    mentioned it was only 3 percent between 1995 and 2001.

   Setting up the MEC offices in a physical space that can house those who will be involved with the
    reform of the administrative. planning, information. evaluation. and management systems, prior to
    December 2004.

   Implementing the institutional reform of the administrative processes of the MEC in order to
    establish a system of classification of the current teaching and administrative staff at the central,
    departmental, and local levels. This new information system will facilitate the identification of the
    staff needed. vacancies and qualifications. and the possibility of anticipating financing needs in order
    to sustain and expand the system. A new merit-based system for the promotion of educational
    professionals will be instituted. To that end. the MEC will, for the first time, establish an
    institutionalized mechanism for the certification of professionals and will introduce accreditation as
    an ongoing strategy for evaluating the quality of training centers (IFDs [teacher training institutes]
    and other similar institutions). These changes will be coordinated taking into account the legal
    provisions applicable to public officials and other pertinent laws that are being drafted, such as the
    regulations governing the Teacher Statute, which we hope can be formally introduced in 2004.

   Implementing the institutional reform of the administrative processes of the MEC in order to put in
    place a classification system for teaching staff, and improving the efficiency of the central
    administration of the MEC through the following actions:

             (a) the administrative systems for the hiring and promotion of staff at the central level and
             teachers will be unified; (b) the Directorate of Planning. Statistics, and Information and the
             Directorate General of Administration and Finance in the MEC will coordinate their
             activities when drafting the budget and making budget decisions based on policies and
             educational goals. using criteria of efficiency and public transparency; and (c)
             micro-planning. Updating, and use of the school map will be included as a management
             strategy. In so doing. the physical and human resources of the system will be used more
             efficiently_ A policy of streamlining of vacancies as a result of the regular retirement of staff
             will be implemented gradually_ This will involve replacement of only 70 percent of retirees.
             in order to increase the student-teacher ratio per section.

             The goals are the following:

LeveVCycle                      Base year      2006         2009
                                (2000)
EEB (lst and 2nd cycles)        18             20           25
EEB (third cycle)               20             30           30
Secondary education             25             27           30

   Improving the quality of Teacher Training Institutes (IFDs) through the establishment of a system of
    regulation and quality control (accreditation). Using a new evaluation and accreditation mechanism.
    control will be exercised over the opening, operations. and closing of IFDs. The objective is to keep



                                                    - 96
    the number of training institutions in line with needs, based on the concept of continuing training
    (initial and in-service training).

   Supporting decentralization at the state (departmental) level and increasing the autonomy of
    educational institutions. The actions to be carried out are aimed at strengthening deconcentrated
    entities, such as the State Education Councils (Consejos Departamentales de Educaci6n), the State
    Statistical Units (Unidades Departamentales de Estadfstica), and the State Supervision Commissions
    (Coordinaciones Departamentales de Supervision), by placing all these entities in the same physical
    space and providing them with new technologies and resources, as well as technical assistance and
    ongoing training. The new Government pledges to obtain and transfer non-wage funds to allow them
    to perform their functions. The autonomy and results-oriented management of educational
    institutions calls for several changes, among them the system of administration of funds collected by
    schools, given the fact that currently they are deposited by law with the Ministry of Finance. These
    funds are not available to schools expeditiously and the amount is less than the sum initially
    deposited.

   Ensuring that the appropriate legal amendments are made within the framework of this new project.
    It should be noted that the procedure for the collection and use of funds in public institutions is
    stipulated by Paraguayan law. Consequently, this matter will hitve to be reviewed by the Executive
    and Legislative branches, so that the appropriate amendments can be made.

   Ensuring that the MEC makes arrangements, prior to December 2003, for the Ministry of Finance to
    set up a special account that ensures that the funds collected by schools are turned over to them
    quickly, so that delays are avoided. At the same time, management and persons working in the area
    of education within institutions are developing the skills to prepare institutional education projects
    and to operate new accounting and results-oriented management systems.

   Guaranteeing that scholarships are given to students who come from extremely poor families.
    Secondary education in Paraguay has a long history of exclusion of young people from low income
    families, given the fact that this level of education is neither free nor mandatory. The new
    Government is mindful of the need to create opportunities for this segment of society. To that end,
    within the framework of the new project, selection criteria and procedures as well as the award of
    scholarships will be established before the start of the project. The team evaluating candidates will be
    made up of representatives from the education community. The states (departments) have already
    been identified through a study that included poverty criteria (inco~e index measured by the
    Household Survey), internal efficiency of secondary education (dropout rate), and impact (coverage
    of secondary education).                                                                   .

    The foregoing provides you with information on the commitments made.

Very truly yours, 

[Signature] . 

Nicanor Duarte Frutos 





                                                  - 97
                                        Education Reform Project 

                                       Progress Indicators by. Phase 


 Component/Subcomponent                 Phase I Indicators               Phase II Indicators
                                         (end of year 3)                  (end of program)
I. Institutional
Strengthening
1.1. Improving the
management capacity of the
system
1.1.1. Redefining                Method of selection and hiring Method of selection and hiring
administrative processes and     of professionals has been      of professionals has been
implementing a system for the defined and applied in 3          defined and applied in 17
selection and hiring of          departments.                   departments and in Asunci6n.
professionals in the field of
education.
1.1.2. Increased capacity for ~ensus baseline for student       Use of reliable data at the
planning, evaluation, and       [achievement (third secondary   school level when preparing
education research at the       ~ducation cycle) completed.     PEls, at the departmental level
central and departmental levels !Education map fully updated.   when hiring new professionals
with a view to decision-making lDatabase fully integrated (for  (teachers and directors), and at
and policy formulation.         ~choolslhuman/statistical       all levels when making
                                 esources - SNEPE/student       decisions.
                                achievement.
1.1.3. Implementing a            Design agreed upon and
communications system            system in use.
1.2. Training of human
resources
1.2.1. Develop a master's         All master's programs
program for 100 leaders in the    completed.
educational system.
1.2.2. Design a continuing        New initial training design       New initial training design
training system (initial and      applied in 30 percent of          applied in all official training
in-service) for educators and     official training institutions    institutions (ISE and IFDs).
apply it to secondary education   (ISE [central teacher training    All 80-hour skills
professionals.                    institute] and IFDs)              enhancement training
                                  All 120-hour skills               completed.
                                  enhancement training
                                  completed.
1.2.3. Design and implement a     Design and regulations            Processes for certification and
system for the certification of   governing certification and       accreditation in place in 50
professionals in the field of     accreditation completed.          percent of departments.
education and an accreditation
system for IFDs.

2. Improvement of Quality
2.1 Inclusion of technological



                                                   - 98
means for learning
2.1.1. Provide schools with      All texts for year 1 (grade 10)    Texts being used in all three
textbooks.                       of secondary education have        grades.
                                 been designed.                                                     !


2.1.2. Provide schools with      40% of CRAs and laboratories       100% of CRAs and
learning resource centers        in place.                          laboratories in place.
(CRAs) and science
laboratories.

2.2. Improvement of the
management capacity of
educational institutions
2.2.1. Redesign the              50% of PEls implemented in         100% of PEls implemented in
organizational and               the institutions selected.         the institutions selected.
institutional management
model, and implement PEls.
2.2.2.Implement social           25% of social community            100% of social community
community projects and           projects are in place.             projects are in place.
mechanisms for training
individuals to become
                                                                                                    !
productive in schools.

3. Equitable Increase in
Access
3.1 Establishment of targeted
mechanisms for access
3.1.1. Implement a scholarship   50% of scholarships awarded        100% of scholarships
program for youth from           and a strategy established to      awarded.
extremely poor families.         ensure the sustainability of the
                                 program.
3.1.2. Make alternative          Existing programs have been        EMA [alternative secondary
secondary education programs     evaluated and the method for       education] modality extended
available.                       alternative secondary              to six states.
                                 education identified and its
                                 pilot application started.
3.1.3. Construct and equip       Three schools constructed.         Five schools constructed and
secondary education model                                           operating.
schools.




                                                  - 99
                                                  -,,,,.. 

                                                    ()

                                   NICANOR DUARTE FRUTOS
                                      .   "1!I5SIDE.UC ELEe'To
                                     IiI~PU.LIC" gEL P"'"AG'WIY

                                          Asui'lciOn, z&nayo de 2003

             Senor
             A렁, F. B; VAN TROTSENSURG
             Director Subregional
             Dlreccl6n SubregJonal para Argentina.
             ChDt. Paraguay V UNguay
             Banco liltemacionat de ReconstrucclOn 

             y Fernento (BlRF) 

             Buenos Aires
             Senor Director:

                               AI tiempo de saludarfo cortlialmente.me dirijo e usted
             con eI proposito de poneii' a su conociiniento las politicas y los
             compmmiSO$. que 8SlM11IremOS desde el Estado para Is efectiva
             implementacion del nuevo proyecto de reJorma del sistema educatlvocon
             entasls en la Educacl6n Media.

                                  la politica de la RefOrms Educativa representa la
             unica Unaa de acci6n pUblica que durante 18 ultima decada contOconuna
             idea dara de sus metas, una pretisa identificaci6n de los problemas a
             correglf', entre ellos eI hectlo de arrastrar un largo rezago en comparaci6n
             con lEI mayoria de los palses. ta mayor complejidad y exigencias que ella
             ha generado en ruanto 8 nueVos rectJl'$Os humanbs, pedag6gioos e
             institucionales, La Refortna Educative tambien sa \Ie afectada por et
             ahOndamiento de Ia cr1M econOmica, social y politica que afecta al pais
             en at pntSente y que socava eI impUlso que tuvo la refonna en los inicic>s
             de Is transicion.

                                La Reforma Educativa ha Iogrado un redise~ de
            fonda de  Ie educad6n Msica con nueve grados obfigft)rios, CUY8
             primera cohOfte ya he Ingtesado en 18 EclJcacion Media. Esta expansion
             ha permitido incoipOrar at sistema ascolar aproximadamenle un mlU6n de
             estudiantes en manos de una ~. En relaclOn con Ie calidad, he
             disminuido Ie distancia de los rencllmientos en el aprendizaje entre zonas
             urbanes y rurales, Jo cuel demueSlra que, cuando la 8ScUeIa majora sus
                 diCiones, los seetotes mu vulnerables aumentan sus oportUnidades
                aprendizaje y desarrollo.




HERMINIO _LDO~"DO IiNTAE: SUCRE; V UI.LO" TELEFAK;t596 211e,4  .0  C즇; (08171) 2QG 800. ~I 1al I He 

               E텺AlL.: NICIoNOROUNn'EI'1IUTOMHlCAHOfuocn.ORG  ASUNCION. PAA.llGUAY 





                                                   - 100
                                         NICANOR DUAlitTEFRUT05
                                               '.I!.'DEH'. ' 'C(:.,,"O
                                            RIlPUa""eA DC" "'....... OUAY 




                                  EI PrOgt:ama de Mejootmiartfod~ Ia Cali. de ta
               Educad6n SeaI1darta (MeCES-MEc-BIRF)haapoyadO ...
               implemerttaci6n del tercer .t;k:Iode I, Eea (primer eido de Ie anteriOr
               secund8fla). Entre los logros mes deSlacad08se c:Ita fa elaboraclOn y
               disttibudOn de textos bilk'lgiiesgralUilO$ de calldad.

                      19ualmente, 18 construcciOn y mejor. de nuevos espados fisicos, Ia
               capacit,aCIOn de docentes en las ......\lal areas cun1cUlarea. y en eI
               desarrollo de una nueva cultunl in$tltucional. 8si como I, ~6n de 'as
               ACES, han fevorecido de man.... fundamenl8l lil par1JctpacIOn de IllS
               families en. Ia edut8ci6n. NOS ~s OIl)lIIIososde ~ logro que
               sig,Je demosttando $U alto potencla1 de .....Ifom18d6n con la exppn&iOn
               de la ex:perieneia a todos los ck::lIOtI de 18 eEe. .
                                                    "
                     Asimismo. lOs PIES perrnltierQi'I una nuevacultura c;If b'abajo por
               proye<:tos. Ow Importante Iogro ,.. at ~ institUCiOnai a
               traves de fa aeaeibn de on $lstema ~ 1nf0nnaci6n de.1a E:stadistica. eI
               Mapa EducativO y Ia InsteIad6n del. S.I1I8. NaciQhal de eV8fU8Ci6n del
               Pfoceso EdUcatlvo (SNEPf;), La!l Ihformadones de톏sIe sistema han
               ~jbnitado COQ$tn.iIr un d~SIIco Cientl'ftco cettero a parlr del cualse
               elaboraf9ll     8'
                              planestrateglco de la refonnayel disetio cupfcular
               national. EI MECES he .aumentado sustandaJrnenUt las bases
               informatJvas para Ia toms de deciSionesen 11.1podtica educative. 8
               siStema de informaciOn del MinisteriOde.Edttc:aQ6n~ dla .. fUente de
               consul.. de organfsmos nacionales e inlemiidonaJes. universidadM e
               investigadOlM                                                       .

                                       8 tinanciamiento de 18 RefOnna EducaUva he .Ido
                                                                       .
                 posible mediante prestamos del Banco Intel'8menc:eno . , Desarrollo
                 (BID) 'lei Banco Mundial (8M), pri.,.atmente. ~ cuales ~ pennitido
             ... compIemenl8r eI rubro de lnver$ioneS, categorfa insUficMlPte. en los
                 pres~tos del Ministerio de EduC8Ci6n .y Cuttura .(NEe) para
                 emprendefsil'nu~eamente iMOYaCiOnes, expansIOn y majora de
               calldad en proyectos de tefonna edUcativa de fa magnllud requertda en
               paraguay. Los pr6stamoe intemaciOnales consti~n medics que
               pas'     . at forUIlec;;imiento de las reformaa IMIizadas. asi como eI
               mej    ientooontinuo del sistema en un pais can alia tass de
               ae        poblacionat 'f grani:les necesidadea de exp8nsl6n de 'a actual
           ..-~~~,n media.




HI1II*IINIO IIMI.00000APO IfNTIft: SUC::RE'l UL.1..0  TEL..쥷AX, (895 21) . " " 8go.CCUS: (OIW1) 204111iOO' w..1) 811 . . . 

                  E-MAIL: NlCANOROUMTE..I.I.I.IrDUNICANOR2OQlJ.OM0I\i!lUNelOH; ,.~y                      





                                                            - 101 
                                EI I'1!JeVO Gobiemo se compromete a priorizar Is
              educadon en su agenda de lransformaciones para el pais. no solo por Is
              siluacian en fa que se encuentra, lino tambien PORIue esta convenCido.
              de que so papeles Glave para AlejOrar 18 caUdad de vida cotedIva en ef
              sentido de consolldar 18 ldentidad. el bienestal'. 18 seguridad yla libettad
              de las personas.

                                  Mejorar fa educaci6n as para nosotro$ dell'Oivene su
              digliidad 81 pueblo pataouayo, Y es preparar a las nuevas generacfones
              para el de$atrollo de un pars cxm oportunidades para todos. Sabemos
              que de Ia cslidad de 18 EducaciOn Media depende en gran medida ef
              grad<) dedesattollo de un pais. Par tanto. so reforms as condiciOn
              indispensable para sostener las demas politicas.
                                                   1
                                  En esle marco de realidades. las melas def nuevo
              Goblemo son fortaleoer loS componentes de Is Refonna EdUcat.Na Y
              emprender 10& carnblos es1JUcturales,institucionale$ y eultl,Q1as que
              puadanincrementar su eficiencia y mejOrar sustancialmente fa calidad y
              I. $qutdad. Sa dest8<ia 81 impulso que se pretende Imprimir al ~o de
              descentrafiZaciOn educatiVa. cuyasbases se eI'lGuentran en las acciones
              de desconcentr8d6n ~ por el WEe en los UltImOs ab. Estas
              atciones han sentado las 톌ases del aprendizaje de un                             proceso de
              .participaciOn y f9.8ponsabilidad credente de. Ia comunidad educ:atlVa a
              nivet departarnental y en Ia nueva relaci6n sodedad eMl-Estado, locual
              c:;onstituye una rortaleza que posibJitani proseguir con et proceso gradual
              de descentrallZac:Mn:



                                       Metas dA      ta   R6fotn'la EdueativI

                                 La Reforma Educativa tietIe como meta para el 2008
                                                                                                .
              universalizar eI preescolar y Is tasa de acceso de la Eduoaci6n EscoI.ar
              Basics, disminlJU' Ie repilencia en los dos prlmeros cidos al 7,3% y al
               1 2%     n el teroer cldo; reoocir Ia lasa de deserciOn del primero y
                ,        ciQo 814.7%, y s17,3% en el tercer cido.lgualmente. proseguir
                         esfuerzos de mejoramiento de Ia caUdad de loa fMUltados
            "'."'110$      disminuyendo la br8cha enlre las zones ul'banas y turales.




HlJtMII\lIO MALOONADO INTRE 1ftJeft Y uu..c  tD..EFA~; (50S ~ 116... 11190      cas: t0911UOfJ 500 .(()M1l ell 868   

                 III텺AlL: ... ICANOI.II:MJ...JItTE)r~TO_N1CAJ\lO~z06::U)JIG.A$UNCION..........AGI.IA\. 





                                                               - 102
                                                                                                        4
                                                     t:, l'i"'~
                                                     ;,. . .:13
                                                      .~,.


                                      N ICANOR DUARTE FRUTOS
                                            PRItSIDENT" 쥺.ECTO
                                         ,,(jllvaLle. bEL P""A~UA"

                                     las metas de la Educacl6n Media para el 2008 son
                      aumentar Ie coberb.Jra aI 59%. disminuirla repitenda al 0.9% y Ie
                      deserct6n 81 6%, asi como conseguir que Ie tasa de egresodel
                      tercer curso no sea menor at 83% yque los resultados del
                      aprendizaje en Lengua alcancen at mel'lO$ 60% yen Matem8tica
                      46%.

                                     EI diseoo clel pl'QyeCto de Ie reforma del sistema
              educative con enfaSis en la Educaci6n Media planteado en dos fases
              (prestamos APt) ~ pot I)bjetointroducir de manera gradual los
              cambios requeridos en eI Sistema para pennltfr al aprendizsje y la
              consolidaciOn gradual y la' aproplaclOn de los proeesos decambio par
              parte de los adores. Se buses instalar un proceso eonsciente, abierto y
              autorregulado de transformactones, capitaazendo eI aprendizaje en
              maroha del proyecto Y gartando aadibHidad y cooliBnZa.Se pretende
                                                                                                      .a
              installr la idea de Is reforms como un camino complejo que Se aprende
              procesuamente, aunqu(!I con tTMttas clatamente ideutiflcables como
              puntos de lIegada de Ie primers etapa.

                                    Ccnstituyen objetivos de Ia refOrma de Ia Educaci6n
              Media:

                    Majorar la capacidad de planificadOn. gestion. evatuaci6n y
                     comunicacion social del nivel central del MEC. de las instendas
                     regionales y de los coIegios, para lograr mayor efidencia del
                      sector.
                    0ise68r 8 implementar sililternas 톎e formadoo continua 'I de
                      certiticaci6n y acreditaCiOn de los profeSionales de 18 educacion.
                  .. Formar nuevos lideres educativos inc1uvendo a una masa crltica
                      para impulsar Ia refOrmlll.
                  ..  Aumentar 81 acceso equitativo, Ia caUdad de los resultados y la
                      gestiOn de Is Edueaet6n Media.                            
                                         Los componentes principales del proyecto que
              permitiran al cumplimento de tos objativos y las metas son los siguienles:

                      1. Desarrollo InstitUclonal del Sistema:
                                 Gestlon del Sistema, que conSists en at rediserlo de k>s
                                 procesos administrativos y톎e gestiOn. y la articulaci6n de
                                 las bases infon'nativas para una garends eftciente.




HERMINIO MALDONADO EN'M S.UCRl Y LQ,.U)  '1'&;U"F,t.)\; (595 2H 884 &90 .. CEL$: (0971) 20'6 !IOO, (0981) 811 868
                 ７MAiL: N1CANOROOART쥷RU'I'OSfONlCANOIUOOS.OitG  ASUNelOllt I"'I\RAGUAY




                                                   - 103
                       (ii)       Fonnacl6n doCentft: (a) fOnTIad6n de1 QD prore.,natas
                                  a nival de maestria en diferentes8~."~cI6A:
                                 (b) fol"f'llaQ6n ccntinua lnidal, que Cor1$isfe en un ccwnbio
                                 de paRldfgma respecto de fa ~ de las
                                 profeslonales dela educacl6l'1.

                                     Se plantea como Ie fomtaCl6n belica 10th 18 _I ..
               inida lacarrera .dOeen~ yestabfece ~ enlaces톏on Ie .~
               posterior en BeNiCiO; (c) fQrmaeiOn continua en serViCiQ. qU8 ttlta de
               oncer .prognllnas regulares de perfecciol1emiento y. ac:tuaIIzadOn
               permanente a los profesionales en e,tefddo en ~ de sua
               necesfdadeS educativas y de acuerdo con el. avance dentffk:o y de las
               distinCos ubere$.
                                                  1
                              Este cambiQ depara<ligma para fa forrnaC:i6n .es eI

                                                                       .8
               resuttado del anlilisis crItico realzadQ a las ~as apIlcadas. 4Hl eI
               proyecto MECE$, ademas de una mirada a          eslrateOlaJmn a;dtosl$
               de Ie regiOn Y del mundo actuaImente. EI pais he ~ que Is
               formaciOn continua 8$ la mayor 1'eV(Jlud6n .que d.be empJ1mderl.
               reforms para hacer viablesy $Ustentables los damllsc::amblo'a.

                       2. Uejoramiento de la Educacion Media

                   (I)      MedloS edutativos: (8) Centros de recu.sos cGn laboratorios
                            clentiftcos, textos escotarespara los estud~ en 188
                            prindpalesare8s del nuevo cunicultm; y (ii) eslnlteg.
                            socioeducativas. Con estos mediadores 58 pret8nde enriqueaar
                            eI acceso al conOCin1iento y a las opartunIdades de
                            expetimentadOn oientiflC8 de 108 jOvenes.

                       3. Expansl6n delaccesoa 'aEduc.aci6n Media med.....;

                (i)       beess a estudlantes de extrema. pobreza; (II) ~ de una
                          nueva oferta de Educaci6n Media abierta dond8. eI p~
                          apoyarii Ie creacl6n de una nueva forma de eductIct6n; (1ft)
                          expansiOn de la oferta regular c,te EdUC8(:I6nMecUa a톞r1W8s de Ia
                          construcd6n y el equipamienlO de cinc:o ooteglOS prototjPD$ en ....
                          pais, Estos nuevos cotegios servir6n de modelo .... proyectar Ia
                          nueva identldac,I de fa EducaciOn Media tanto en SUI aspedoa
                          pedag6gIcos como instituciorlal y ff8icO-ambientat


                --
HERMIHIO NAt..[)(.)NAI)Q ENTAe: SUCRE Y UL.t.O  n::U::I"Ax:.llsa" 211 .... dO  CIl..5: ~1) Z04IIIOO  cOHn ... . .  

                   E텻Al1.: NlCANOftOUARTEf"RIJT054tNICANOAZI)03,ORG  ASUHC;:IC)N. ~l,My 





                                                           - 104
                                                      "

                                    NICANOR DUARTE FRUTO$ 

                                           Prtlfm:u:cHTE ILif CT,:) 

                                       ltli:pOal..leA DEL P... " ... llu.... "



                         EI proyecto se plantea indICadores 'iltrificables cIt>.avance
             enbe &as rases 1 y 2. &'aneJ($ un documentQsobreei rnianO. (AneXQ 1).
             que. muestra Ia .톐iAafidad de dMc;ffr eI proyecto en dD& tases. elande ta
             primers de eUas톝e dedica al establedmlento de sl$temas.pera rnajarrar Ia
             eftdenoia del sector y 18 introduc;:ci6n de actMdades en f9rma pIIoto.
             mi.;ntras que la Mgunda implementer. los siStemas adminlst.-Nos y
             expandira 10& pilotos.

                           EI proyecto incorpora estrategias de retroallmE/l1tad(lf1
             permanente a traves de Is evaluacion yel monitoreo que pennitan $PUcar
             las correcx:iones. metodolOgkiasy lOs camblos .reqU8i1dOS en 18 iTI8i'dla
             de los~. los indieadofes de 18 pri~ rase IQIlel punto de
             referenoia 0 100parametJ'os que sirven 4e CI1tetio para eva!uary obMfter
             las lecdones que serim copslderadas en fa expanSiOn de Ja렁톝egunda
             fase.

                        los oostos del proyecto. sus c8legorias y las fue. .s de
             finandamientose anexan a esla carta (Anexa 2).

                           CompromisO$ del nuevo Gobl.mo para faciHtar el
             proytcto y fa refonna de la educaelon:
                            EI Minlsteria .de EducaciOn albltnlni los medias
             institUc;:ionales para cumplir el m8ndatb del nuevo Gobiema acerea de IS
             instalacion de una Qnica dependencia de ic:ilaCjOO para los pqedoS. con
             financiamiento extemo. La ejeCuciQn de eslecamblo sa. "",liz. . 18gUn
             las disposidones legates y fonnara parte del prOCeSO de nnsfo~
             pai'a el meJOI'Il1llento de I. gesti6n del sistema Y la rendlci6n de euentas
             transparente.
                             el nuevo Gobierno se comprOmete a prIodiat Ie teform8
             InslllUelonal del MEC. Y a formular y ejecutar las polilicas IJ8Ctorla'. que
             mejoren ta educacion paraguaya. J!t.J respecto, Ie resaltan los slglJiente&
             puntos considerad<lsrelevantes para la$ metas def nuevo..proyecto con eI
             Banco Mundial:

                             Asegurar eI financiamlet'lto pant ejecutar con lOOto eI
                              PfOYecIO. Las mecldas a ser tomadaS C:on~"
                              principalmenteen dos acciones:




HEfIMINIO .'-PQHADQ ENTftE sue.. y Uu.o  TELEF'~ (MIS 21) 6e4 !S9O  elEus: coe.,, .200 100(ON1 ,    .,1 8I5l
                If텺AII.: NlCANORctJMTEf'RIJ'T'OMNICANORlIOO3.0RG  A8U"fCION.~"                    .




                                                     - 105
                                                             7


       NICANOR DUARTE FRUTOS
            PR E: 81 DI!:,t.l1'li'I: L KeTO 

         IIEP(/8LIC", Df: ... P","",GUAV 



(i) Inaementar anualmente eI gaS10 educ:alivo con relaCiOn at
PIS cle 18 sigulenle rrtanera:4;5% en el 2004 y 4.7% en el
20()6 -esta meta sa refiere solo a los servidos ecrucativos
ofrecidos par eI MEC-; Y (ii) aumentar los gastf)s recurrentes
nosalariales 81 menos at 10% pera eI tercer cicio de Ie EEB y
Is Educaci6n Media. La Pl't)porc:iOn actual de gastos
recurrentes no salariales dentro Ijel presupuesto general del
sector es de! orden del 20%. aunque para los nivetes
mEincionados es tan solo 3% entre 1995 y.2001.

   Instaler las oficinas det MEC en un espacio fisico capaz
   de albergar a aquellas que serM afectadas por Ie
   refotma del Sistema de administraci6n. plariiflCaciOn.
   informaciOn, evaluaci6n y gerencia antes de diCiembre de
   2004.        ,

   Imptementar Ia refonna rnstitucional en los procesos
   adminisb'ativos del MEe con el objeto lie contar con un
   sistema de clasificaci6n del persOnal docents y
   administrattvo. en los pianos central. departamental y
   local. en ejerclcio. Este nuevo sistema de informaciOn
   facititara identificar eI personal requerido, las vacancias.
   18 calificaciOn. y Is posibilidad de preyer las necesidades
   de fln8ndamiento para sostener y expancllr eI Sistema.
   Seimptementani un nuevo sistema de promociOn de los
   profesionales de la educati6n baudo en eI memo. Para
   81 &facto, el MEC par primera vez instalara un
   mecanismo lostltuclooaliZado de certifJC8ciOn de los
   profesionales e implementani \a acredil8ciOn como
   estrategia de evaluaci6n permanente de la caUdad de los
   cen1rOS de fonnaci6n (lFOs y slmllaras). Estas
    transfomlaclones ser6n ooordinadastomado 'en cuenta el
   marco legal del personal de 18 fund6n PUblica Y otras
   leyes pertinentes que se hallan en elaboratiOn. como ser
   el reglamento del Estatuto Docente, el cual sa espera
   institucionalizar para el 2004.

   Implementar Ie reforma instituclooal en 10$ procesos
   administrativos del MEC con eI objeto de contar con un
   Sistema de dasificaciOn del personal docente, mejorar Is
   eflCieflda de la administraclon central del MEC a traves
   de 18$ eccianes siguientes:




                      - 106
                    '~~
      NICANOR DUARTItFRUTOS
           .. "IlIUD:I:,..". f;L".CTO 

        RIPIloDL4CA DEL "''''" ..... U.... V 


 (a) se Wlificanin        los Sisteinat admIrlistralvOs de
contrataciOn y promoci6n del penonal.del niveI central y de
los dacen_: (b) la Oireooi6n de Planiflcatl6n. Esfadfs.tk:ae
Infonnaci6n y Ia DirectiOn General de AdntiniSt.8Ci6ny
FlnaRZ8s del MEC articufanin sus acciones perala
elabOraclOn del ptl;IslIpUesto. las dedsiOttes .';e<:uciOn det
miSmo en tundOn de poIiticas .y metas educativasCGn
aitenos de efidencla y transparenda publica; (c)se
Incorporanin .18 rniCroplaniftcaciOn. 18 actu8Hzact6n y "
utiDzaCiOn del Mapa Escolar como톏stta1.egia de   oesuon.   to
que ayudara aI mejOr aprOvechamiento de tas recursos tanlO
r.sico$ como humanos del               Sistema. Se apliold
gtaduaknente una politics de ,ac:ionalizadOn. de los puestos
\l8ClJnt8sproducidos par 18. jublla<:ion oormal del톚8l'$QDal
ree~zando as 70% de los docentes jubiiadOl. ton 81
objeto de IUnsntar la relaci6n docente-alumno per secc:l6n.


        Las metas son Como sigue




        Mejorar la Qilidad de los Institutos (Ie FormaCi6n
        Docente (IFDs) mediante aa creaci6t'l de un sistema
        de regulaci6n y conb"Ol de caUdad (Aaedi~6n). A
        trav6s del nuevo mecaniamo de avaIuadOn. Y
        8Cf'editaciOn . SEt regular6n la a,.,nu....el
        fUncionamienlo y eI cletre de los IFDa, De aste
        modo sepretende mantener la cantidad necesaria
        de instituciones fcrmadOras blljo fa            nueva
        concepciOn de form8eion continua fmiCl$I y en
        setvido).




                      - 107
                                                     9


NrCANOR DUARTE FRUTOS
    PIUtIllIO즨tT! 1l1.1lC,TO 

 ftrpiJ8i.IC4 DEI. 1I'41UQUAY 


  A{Joyar Ia descentranzaei6n a nivet departamental y
 aumentar fa 8lItonomia ~e las instiluciones
 educatiVas. las acciones a ser emprendidas tienen
. par     obj~to       f'ortalecer   las    instancias
 desconcenb'adas. como ser los Consejos
 Oepartsmenlales de Educaclon, uoes y
 Coordlna<:iones Oepartamentales de SuperviSj6n.
 wcitndolO$ en un milHJlo espacio fiSico. dot6ndolos
 de nuevas tecnotoglas., medias. as; amo con
   asistencia t8cnica y perfeccionamienlo constame.
   EI nuevo GotIIemo sa compromele a obtener y
   transfeAr los moos no saJariaJes para el
   cumplimiento de sus fUndones. La autonomia y la
   ge.6n por resutbldos de las instituciOnes
   ~as req",ieren vanus cambios. entre ellos eI
   sistema de administraci6n de 'os fondus propios de
   105 cotegios. dado que actuaimente. pur ley. son
   deposatados en eI Ministelio de Hadenda~ Su
   recuperaciOn pDf parte de 10$ colegiO$ se produce
   de modo tardio y en un porcentaje menor al
   depOSitado.
  EI nuevo Gobiemo se comptOmete a procurer e1
     cambio legalcorrespondiente en el marco de este
     nuevo proyecto. Cabe Infonnar que eI
     procedimiento de recaudad6n y uso de fondas en
     fas inslituciones pUblicas esla estipulado por ley
     de la nad6n. Pur oonsigulente.   as  un tema que
     tendta que ser analiz8do entre at Poder Ejecullvo
     y el Pod Legislativo para su conveniente
     modlftcaciOn.
..  En tanto. para antes de diciembre de 2003. eI
     MEC arbitraralos medlos para que eI Ministerio de
     Hacienda habl1ite una cuenta especial de Ia
     cartera que posiblite que los fondos recauciedos
     por los ooIegios sean devueltos con rapidez B fin
     de que no se slgan produciendo atrasos. Por otra
     parte. los directivos y IS comunidad educativa de
     las instituciones estanm        desarrollando las
     competencies para fonnular proyettos educativos
     instHuclonales. a operar con nuevas sistemas de
     rendldOn de cuentas y de gestlon porresultados.




              -108 
                                     :t:~~
                                   " . #II--.\~ .
                                                                        10

                                   '~l

                  NICAHOR IiJUARTE FRUTOS
                        P,UI1i!DIlHTI EC.fi:CTO
                     AI.I"08t.ICA DIL PI!!II'I"G;UAY

                      Ga..mizar que lOs destin!if8riOs de las becas
                      sarin estudiantes de extrema pobraza; La
                      EducaciOn Media en Paraguay Hene una lallla
                      hlsloria de exdusl6n para 108 j6venes de famillas
                      COR m~ recursos dado que este niVet en 81
                      pals  nQ es gratulto ni obligatOrio. EI nUevo
                      Gobiemo as sE!l1iIble ale -generaci6n de
                      opOrWnIdada& para este sector social, Alai fin. en
                      eI marco del nuevo proyecto sa -cantara con los
                      cnterios  Y procedimientos de seleeci6n y
                      adjudicadOn pertinentes de las becasantes de
                      bacer efecIlvo.
                                   eI proyecto. EI equipO de evaluaci6n
                      de     los      pos1Ulantessert   integrado    por
                      repre$entantes de Ie comunidad -톏dUcalva. Su
                      gestic1n senli evaluada en forma permanente por
                      las. autorldades y per Ia proPia comunidad. -La
                      identiliCaCi6n de los departameotos geogr8ficoa ya
                      he lidO reallZ8da mecMnte un estUdio en 81 cual
                      saintagRln critetiOs de pobreza (indice de Ingre.so
                      medIdo par fa Encuesta de Hogares). eficiencla
                      intema de Ie educaci6n media (Indice de
                      c:Ieset'cIOn) e impacIo (cobertura de la Educaci6n
                      Media)~                     

                  En ocasiO" demanifestar1e lOS oompromiSos
asumldos. Ie ,eitero las Hgurtdades de ml consid.eraciOn mas dlsUngulcla.




                                     109 

                                                       i:d1t
                                                     ?J:f!) 

                                  NICANOR DUARTE FRUTOS
                                          PRESIDe NT IE'. .. LEeTO 

                                       R즂I)I/IILI텰:;A OEL P"""GUAY 





                    PROYECfO DEREFORMA DE LA 즠)IJCAClON MEDIA
                              INDICADORES DE AVANC PORF'ASE
          1
          I    o.poaeDttlSubcempoDe'"                 ,    . . . . .res 렁          hdkadores de ..
. I                                                             F_I                        Fasell 

           !                                         ,1:f.... deldo ....... 
     (fill" del
0L.r~ .........                               .f;c

l.iM6i~.br                                                tkImt...                                            "j
     1. 1.1 R.cidiselat Iosproc:c$OS                              seleceiOny                    JeieeClOQ y    I
     .~V9" irn"emmllf Ul11i1cema                      COftCIataCi6n de to5       ooJlb'alaciiln de; los 

     de selecciOa y con~ de los 
     ~diseftadoy                                protfiioaales diseMdo y 

     pRitCsionales de Ia cducaciOn. 
 aplk.ado en 3                              apJicado GO los 17
                                                      dcpartamcntos.             departam.enI'os y
                                                                                 Asunc:i6p.
     1.l.2 A....... 1a capacidad de 
     - .Linea de basr:c:tosaI de            Uso de..." amfiabICs 

     p~ificac""$aIuaci6n e imutipcitln 
 n:odirn.ieDlo eslUdiaaUJ                anivelcscolar ell cl 

     edItcativa cnlolu:UVltlcs.ceutmJ y 
 (bm:er~do                              deAnollo de los PEl, a 

     ~...;,.latomade d!:Icisionel 
 E1IucacillD Media)                           nivlldop$1aDleatli on Ia 

     y ]a fbmIulaclQo de poIiticas. 
     f.lOQduida.                            ooJdrltaci6a denuevos
                                          - IDO%del Mapa                         pmfesionakss (doc:adcs
        ,                                 Educati\'o actualiudo                  y dilec:toru), y Cl'I todos
        !
        I                                 - 100%de Ia base.                      los ~ on Ia lOIUd.e
          ~.                                          datos ~ (para los          decisiollCS.
           I
'.       .~.                                          ooJeaiosI nlCW'8OS
     0 렁 ,                                          ~~
., I .                                                SNEPEI reDdimieslto 

                                                      elllUdiantil\. 

     I.t.) laapll:ilmdv un s=nade 
                   DiIdo~y              

     cmmlD" ~iaI . 
                                  "*ma en utO.
. L2 Ctllfl1ctld6lt" 1M ~ UII'1JqI'lDS
   l~.l DesatmBIVuo ptosramade         El ciecto par cimdo dl:1as
  tDacstria piidOG tideres del sisrema roaestrias ooadWdas. 
                            
     cdDCatiw. 


     1.2.2 DitcIIIr.histema de fOrmaci6n              ~ Nuevo diselIo de         NIItiVO. dUeIo de 

     continu.a (~y en swvicio) del 
                  fOtmaci6n inicial          ibrmaciOn iaicial 

     cducador YSlliIDpbneBtaci6n para los 
           aplitadoon'Uft 30%de lei   aplicado en Ull 100% de 

     ~.Ia EducaciOa Media. 
                          iostitucioocs imuadora$
                                                      oficiales (ISE e IFDs)
                                                       100% de propmas de
                                                                                 las. inslituci.ooes
                                                                                 formadoras oficiaJcs
                                                                                 (ISB e JFI)s)
                                                                                                               !
     '~~.:l, "                                        120 hons do               - lOO%de oroaramas de         1




                                                       . 110
                                  NICANOR DUARTE. FRUTOS
                                           PIU,SltlENT& IfLItCTO 

                                       RI!"08&'IC:Ao DEL ..... R .... GU ...... 





, 1.2,3 Diseiar e imptcmcttiar un sistema     Diseili) Y teglamento4e               . ~mceios de CCrtIficaciM
 da cemficaciOn de 50s proilsioBalcs de Ia , cemfic:aciOn y
i educaci6n ). un sistema de acmfitac_ I acmditaciOO concluido,
: de lFDs.                                          ,
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    ; )' acredilacilln
                                                                                     implan1acIol ca5O% de
                                                                                     losdcpartameatos,




        Compolentt!SubcompoUfltte                          Indkadores de 렁               I.dieadores cit II
                                                                      Fase ,                    F. . II
                                                              {rmal del .60             (fio,.. de1 pl'elralU)
f2. MeTo"icnto de fa Calidad          -.-_."T"l-----=
                                                       um~3'     ..
                                                              ... -=<::.._.----~---
                                                                  ..
II 2.lllICtJTfJ'O'tlCi6n de..~tIIIiNa ~41' ~ /NIH d IIpJWtliJ!1lfl
. 2J.I DoIat a los coIegios de Cflxtos.       100% de los IIx1D$ pam     Te"-Ut ulO en los 1Ie.
                                              el ptimer QiI'SO de la     ansos,
                                                        Educaci(ID Media
                                                        dilicilados.

    2.1.2 Dow a los cottaios de cenbos de               40% dalos CRAs y
    recursos de apRUdizaje (eRAs) y                     Iaboratorios instalados..
    laboratorios.


    2 .2.I.RccliseAar el I1'IOdclode                    50% de los PEl                  100% de los PEl
    orpnizaciOn y gcstiOn inSlinlcional, C              impliutlad05 en                 ~cn
    Implar'llar los PEl (Proyectos EducatiYos           institucioncs                   iDstitucioDea 

    Institucionalcs), 
                                 selecdonadas.                   seleeciooadas.



                                                                                        ~I
    2.1.2 lmp~enJos.~
    ~ 1OClOCOmlQIlWlOS Y
                                                        2'" 10. 

                                                              de        proycctos
                                                        sociocomunitarios
    pmdlaCti\o'OiS de imnaciOn ci~ c 
                  impiantados.                    impladdoa.
    iDsen::i6n eo Ia ecooomia.,
i             __                       _
i 3. AIImen.. Equitative del Aeceso                                 .,.
                                                            -t
I J. I Cmu::itJlr RIIf!C(f""'" ltJCtiiiI.fUIi) IlIfnI ffCCGtJ
I 3.l.l ImplenOlD" un PlOpamade
  bocas panl POeDeS en siluaciOn de
                                                50% de 1u becu            100% de lasbecu
                                                Uianadas y WI8. cSllQllia ~.
    clCrCma pobreza.                                    CII'ablocida para ascgwar
                                                        laso nibilidad del




                                                        - 111 
Map Section
