Report No. PID11494
Project Name             PERU-Trade Facilitation and Export...
Competitiveness Technical
Assistance Project
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   General industry and trade sector (100%)
Project ID               P077788
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF PERU
Implementing Agency
Address OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER
Office of the Prime Minister
Address: Av. 28 de Julio No. 878
Miraflores, Lima, Peru
Contact Person: Dr. Marta Olivares
Larriega, Secretaia de Gestion
Multisectoral
Tel: 446-4279,446-9800
Fax: 242-2551
Email: molivares@pcm.gob.pe
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        October 17, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      October 24, 2002
Bank Approval Date       November 21, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
In spite of significant structural reforms, Peru's economy has failed
during the last decade to establish a track record of sustained growth and
poverty reduction. After a strong growth performance in the early
nineties, the Peruvian economy is currently struggling to emerge from four
years of recession and stagnation. As a result, Peru's GDP per capita
amounted to US$2,368 in 2000, which is about the same level as that for
1970. After having grown at an average of 4.3% during 1994-97, per capita
GDP has been declining at an average rate of 0.77T from 1997-2001.    The
combination of external shocks - the El Nino weather phenomenon, high cost
and scarcity of external financing, terms of trade deterioration - and the
political crisis during 2000-2001 explain the country's faltering growth
in the last few years. As a consequence, the poverty rate in 2001 stands
at 54.8%, reflecting a rise of 7.1% from 1997, and undoing the gains made
between 1994 and 1997 when the poverty rate fell 4.5%.
Recognizing that growth and strong institutions are vital to sustainable
social and economic development, the Government's strategy to reduce
poverty is organized around three central objectives:
n Competitiveness and employment generation;
n Equity and social justice; and
n Institutionality, creating an efficient, transparent and decentralized
state.



International experience clearly shows that the export industry can be a
powerful engine of economic recovery and growth, but this potential is
left unrealized in Peru due to lack of   competitiveness.    Peru has an
average per capita exports of US$268, which is far below the WTO's
published world average per capita export of US$1,051. For comparison,
Mexico and Chile have respectively exports per capita of US$1,487 and
US$1,229. Even much poorer Ecuador has an exports per capita ratio
exceeding that of Peru by 75%. In fact, with the exception of Bolivia,
Peru's exports per capita level is the lowest in the Region. Similarly,
Peru has currently an exports to GDP ratio of 16.35%, which is much lower
than that of neighboring countries such as Chile (36.43%), Ecuador
(34.11l) or Bolivia (18.34%). More surprisingly, Peru seems to lag even in
areas for which it can be expected to have a natural comparative
advantage. Textiles being one area and agro-industrial products, where
the latter benefits from the quality of the soil and the Peruvian
microclimates. For example, in the fruit sector Peru's fruit exports
amount to about US$40 million, compared with Colombia at US$800 million,
Ecuador at US$600 million and Chile at US$1.4 billion. Similarly in the
garment sector, Peru is exporting US$25/per capita, while Guatemala,
Honduras and Costa Rica all export approximately US$300/per capita.
Recognizing the urgent need for the economy to improve its
competitiveness and export performance, the new administration of
President Toledo has made competitiveness a cornerstone of its economic
policy and political agenda to deliver sustained and equitable growth and
social development and has already undertaken significant actions towards
this objective. As part of the CAS discussions, the Government has also
committed to the target of improving Peru's international standing on
competitiveness from its current rank of 65 of 75 countries, to 46th or
better by 2006, and concomitantly doubling the value of exports from $7.1
billion to $14.2 billion by 2006. Consistent with its overall policy of
participation and decentralization, the Government organized a broad based
dialogue with the private sector. This dialogue culminated in a unified
proposal by all relevant actors in the export industry on measures needed
to stimulate exports, and the Government has moved quickly to implement
almost all the measures recommended as part of this process. Specific
actions on policy and institutional reform thus far include:
Institutional Reform:
n Creation of the National Competitiveness Council     Recognizing the need
to coordinate actions across several sectoral entities, in April 2002, the
Government decided to create a National Competitiveness Council (NCC)
under the office of the Prime Minister to lead and coordinate the design
and implementation of a National Competitiveness Plan, to be carried out
jointly with the private sector. This institutional home for the
competitiveness agenda also has the natural advantage of full political
support and demonstration of the high level of importance the government
places on the theme of improving competitiveness.
n Rationalization of Key Entities Responsible for Export Promotion:     In
addition, in July 2002, the Government also undertook a major
rationalization of the key ministries with functions critical to improving
export growth.    The main changes include the creation of the Ministry of
Foreign Trade and Tourism (MINCETUR), the merger of the Ministries of
Industry and Fisheries under a single Ministry of Production; the merger
- 2 -



of agencies handling market research, privatization, concessions and
attraction of foreign investment under one entity - PROINVERSION; and a
decision to increase commercial and trade promotion activities through the
foreign office.
fn Decentralized and Participating Decision Making - The Government is
also committed to a policy of decentralized decision making through
constant consultations with consejos regionales to foster a bottom up
approach towards policy making.
Policy Measures
n Trade Agreements:   On the policy side, a major achievement of the
Government has been the successful completion of negotiations with the
U.S. in September 2002 to achieve eligibility of Peru under the AT PDEA
which opens the U.S. market and removes duties on textiles, clothing,
selected manufactured goods and processed foods;
n Tariffs and Export Incentives:    Based on the above dialogue, the
Executive enacted a package of measures in August 2002 to: (i) provide new
financial support to stimulate the export industry; (ii) lower tariffs on
capital goods from 7T to 4W; and (iii) create new tax incentives under
temporary admission regimes.
n Improved Investment Climate: In August 2002, the Government also passed
a new Bankruptcy Law to improve the legal framework for corporate
restructuring and increase firm creditworthiness; and
n Improvements in Transport and Logistics Costs: Finally, the Government
has also undertaken several measures to improve the efficiency of its
freight transport network to reduce transport costs for exportable. In
the ports sector, the Government has already privatized the port of
Matarani, with measurable gains in efficiency, the index of efficiency in
Matarani is 6.4 compared to 4.8 in Callao, the biggest port in Peru (Luis
to confirm) .  In addition, the a new Ports Law was presented to Congress
in September 2002 to modernize national port infrastructure and management
through increased private sector participation.    The Government is also
introducing private participation in other transport sub-sectors, recently
concessioning the first package of highways (Vial # 5) and the Lima
international airport.   To ensure the benefits of privatization, these
privatized entities are supervised by an autonomous regulatory authority,
OSITRAN.
Despite these initiatives, the Government is well aware that much more
needs to be done to address the continuing obstacles to expanding Peru's
non-traditional exports and increasing its export competitiveness.    Based
on the Bank's analytical work and in consultation with the GOP and various
stakeholders, the following issues are identified:
a. Outdated government export strategy and poor articulation of the
private sector
The market-oriented economic policies adopted by successive Peruvian
governments since the early nineties have undoubtedly yielded impressive
results, including a strong expansion of external trade, which basically
doubled in absolute terms by end of 2001. But, the heavy focus of the
export strategy (not clear what the government's export strategy is, is
this is a criticism of the market-oriented economic policies?) on mining
and fisheries, both low-growth, primary and traditional products, as main
-3 -



export sectors has evolved today into a major structural constraint to
overall export competitiveness. Two-thirds of current export revenues are
generated by mining and fisheries alone. Manufacturing exports, consisting
mainly of textiles, base metal industries, chemicals, manufactured metal
production and machinery and non-metallic minerals, and agro-industry
products represented in 2000 about 21- of total exports as opposed to an
average of 58t for the whole LAC region. In additional to increased
vulnerability to external shocks, the current export promotion strategy
also appears to have led Peru not to take full advantage of its export
potential. The current administration under President Toledo acknowledges
the shortcomings in Peru's export promotion policy and is committed to
reform. Besides addressing issues of public sector management, a
particular challenge to this reform initiative will also be how to ensure
that the private sector, especially the producers of non-traditional
export products, responds appropriately to any new incentive framework to
be put in place by the government. This is not obvious since these non
traditional sectors lack a well developed and coherent supply chain, as
well as culture of "export orientation" per se.
b. Lack of quality standards
In today's global economy, a key prerequisite for access to new markets is
product conformance to recognized international standards, demonstrated
through testing at qualified (accredited) laboratories; good practices in
processing products that affect safety or health; and standards that show
that management systems are in place to assure the production process is
under control at all times. Compliance is usually accomplished through
some type of certification scheme administered by independent third-party
certifying bodies and their assessors. The qualifications of certifying
bodies are verified by national and international accrediting
organizations.
Although Peruvian quality standards are largely based on international
standards, there does not appear to be a strong awareness of the
significance of and need for quality management throughout Peru's
industries. Surprisingly, exporters appear to be even less quality
conscious than other sectors. As of April 2002, only 201 enterprises have
been awarded ISO 9000 certifications. Only 30 (15%) of these are
exporters. In most other countries exporters are the early adopters and
are the majority of those certified. The demand for ISO 9000
certifications has been so limited that only one ISO 9000 certifier is
accredited in Peru (ICONTEC of Colombia) and they are withdrawing from the
market. Colombia has twice as many ISO 9000 enterprises as Peru, while
Chile has 4 times as many. These figures should also take into account
that Latin America has proportionately the least number of certified
enterprises. Of the worldwide total of 400,000 certified firms the Latin
America region has 2§ percent. Next highest is Africa with 5 percent;
Australia and New Zealand have 6.7 percent. For comparison purposes and
demonstrating this deficiency, Peru's 200 certifications represent less
than 2 percent of South and Central America's total. Furthermore, Peru is
not exploiting or developing two powerful concepts related to quality that
could have a significant impact in opening new markets. They include
certification of organically grown agro-industrial products and unique and
localized branding. Peru is rich in such products that could qualify for
such certification with very little effort for products such as pisco (a
- 4 -



distilled drink from corn), alpaca, potatoes and chirimoya (a well known
local fruit).
In addition to the weakness in adopting quality standards, Peru lacks an
integrated system for quality management at the national level and a major
private or public sector institution to champion a "quality agenda".
Instead, there are only a few sporadic quality initiatives with limited
outreach and sparse results. For instance, all the components of a
national MNAC (metrology normalization, accreditation and certification)
system have been in place with INDECOPI since 1992, but the institution
has yet to establish itself as key player in the promotion of quality
standards. Similarly, the availability of calibration services does not
appear to be a problem at the few labs visited. An accredited private
calibration laboratory also serves the industry. But, the credibility of
the laboratory accreditation scheme is questionable given that
laboratories are not required to demonstrate their regular participation
to inter-laboratory comparisons (round robin) and proficiency testing as
required by international standards. This deficiency affects in turn two
other government institutions, which are critical to certification of
agricultural exports: SENASA for unprocessed agricultural commodities and
DIGESA for processed foods. Both institutions are relying on accredited
labs to do the actual testing, because they lack trained personnel,
equipment and facilities.
The strategic consequences of the lack of an effective national quality
management system are reflected for instance in the current debate about a
new EU quality standard initiative, known as EUREPGAP, that is getting
worldwide support. Peruvian exporters of agricultural products are
particularly alarmed by the fact that, while certification under these
quality standards is voluntary, most of the larger European retailers will
require certification by January 2003. The first EUREPGAP certifications
have been Central American banana producers. Argentina and Brazil are
putting systems into place. Chile has established a comprehensive system
and is seeking recognition from EUREP. Peruvian growers claim that there
are no EUREPGAP certifiers in Peru. SENASA does not see this as an urgent
need, and certifiers like SGS-Peru claim there is no demand yet in Peru.
Irrespective of the merits of these expressed views, the main issue is
there is no clear agency to show leadership and take a proactive approach
in export promotion and the importance of the issue of quality.
c. Limited access to markets and weak and uncoordinated export
institutional framework
Poor knowledge of export markets and limited market access are among the
main factors hampering Peru's export performance. Export promotion
efforts in Peru suffer from duplication of efforts, limited and poorly
used resources, lack of strategic focus, insufficient accountability and
inadequate coordination among institutions. The poor results achieved are
not for the lack of relevant institutions with a mandate to promote
exports. A recent study commissioned by the World Bank found no less than
24 institutions from the private and public sectors involved directly of
indirectly in the promotion of trade. At the government level alone,
there are three major institutions depending from three different
Ministries which are performing similar activities yet not in a
coordinated fashion: (i) the Commission for the Promotion of Peruvian
exports (PROMPEX) which depends on the Office of the Prime Minister (PCM),
(ii) the National Board of Trade which depends on MINCETUR and (iii) the
Executive Office of Economic Promotion which depends on the Minister of
- 5 -



Foreign Affairs. There is also another institution focusing on Small and
Medium Enterprises (SMEs), PROMPYME, housed in the Ministry of Labor,
that also tries to integrate these firms into the main supply and export
chain. This duplication of roles and functions and the lack of a clearly
articulated country strategy on trade policy, export promotion and foreign
investment has meant a lost opportunity for Peru to find a means to
achieve sustained economic growth through by a growing export oriented
sector of the economy.
The result of a weak institutional framework and disjointed export
strategy has been limited market intelligence, and market access. As an
example, PROMPEX lacks clear strategic guidelines, adequate resources and
a performance tracking system to measure its effectiveness. Many of its
initiatives are directed towards raising funds instead of helping to
develop new markets, programs and services for Peruvian exporters. The
institution has a poor record at coordinating with other export promotion
institutions and its market coverage is limited especially among smaller
exporters. Moreover, the lack of coordination between the various agencies
affects negatively the prospects of a number of very interesting
initiatives currently underway, such as the Centros de Innovacion
Tecnologicos..
Better coordination and support is also needed for private sector
institutions which are almost equally duplicative in their export
promotion efforts. Two entities are particularly prominent: the
Association of Exporters (ADEX), and the Peruvian Association of Foreign
Trade (COMEXPERU). ADEX was created in 1973 as a non-profit organization
and its membership currently consists of mostly small and medium
enterprises. It is primarily supports its members in lobbying activities,
market analysis to identify business opportunities and provision of legal
advisory services It organizes business events such as roundtables,
fairs, trade missions and seminars. This menu of services is basically
the same for COMEXPERU, created in 1989, which shares the same objectives
of ADEX. But, unlike ADEX, members of COMEXPERU are primarily larger
firms which did not feel that their interests were appropriately
represented by ADEX. Overall the lack of coordination between these two
business associations with the same goals and activities generates
inefficiencies in the process of export promotion, increases costs
unnecessarily, confuses outsiders and new market entrants, and ultimately
leads to ineffective export promotion. Finally, there is a lack of export
culture among Peruvian entrepreneurs. This is partly explained by the
high fragmentation of production (could use statistic to demonstrate) in
the non-traditional product sectors and the small size of firms (need
statistic). Increased integration of these producers into the supply
chain would alleviate part of this problem.
d. High logistics costs
High logistic costs, as identified in a study by the World Bank in 2001,
are another important obstacle impeding export competitiveness in Peru.
According to the study's findings, Peru's logistic costs as a percentage
of total revenues amount to about 31-, in contrast to Chile at about 15t,
and to OECD countries at around 9%. Similarly, inventory levels for raw
materials -- a component of logistic costs -- in Peru were maintained at
more than four times those of the US, while other countries in the Region
had levels between two and three times those of the US. High inventory
levels point to deficiencies in the distribution chain. Some of the
- 6 -



determinants of these deficiencies include:
n the quality of stock and service of the freight transport providers. In
Peru the average age of the fleet is over 15 years old, making service
highly unreliable;
fn deficiencies in the cold chain. The offering of appropriate transport
service-containers and other vehicles with temperature treatment is very
low in Peru at around 10% of the fleet - a level not adequate for the
volume and range of existing time sensitive products. As a consequence,
data shows that no more than half of the harvested output is reaching the
market. Such high loss levels are particularly harmful for small scale
producers;
n lack of freight intermediaries. As a consequence, idleness and truck
load factor average only around 50% adversely affecting freight rates.
Overall direct transport and insurance costs in Peru, which while not
excessively high, are twice as high as those of Chile. But more relevant
are the indirect costs related to reliability, time of service and damage
factors, all of which exceed by large margin the performance of Peru's
neighbors.
n inadequate technologies for goods packaging for all types of products
but particularly for exports. Poor packaging of goods has resulted in high
rates of damage and/or deterioration. Examples from the furniture and
agro-industry sectors show deterioration or damage levels from poor
packaging at about 7k, when normal levels rarely exceed 2%.
A second important element of high logistics costs are the lengthy and
inefficient procedures in the processing of exports goods through the port
of El Callao. Normal processing times often take up to twenty days when
best practices such as in Chile show that processing can be completed
within three days. Time is important not only because it has an important
financial impact but also because it is particularly crucial for
agro-industry products, which are time-sensitive and where delays directly
impact product quality and the level of product deterioration, resulting
in high losses. These procedural delays are compounded by inefficiencies
in port operations at El Callou, reflected in fess and handling times,
which add substantially to logistics costs. According to a CAF study, El
Callao is the second most inefficient port of the Region, only slightly
better than the worst performing port - Puerto Cabello in Venezuela.
Another major contributor to high logistics costs are deficiencies in the
infrastructure network, particularly access roads to ports - El Callao and
other regional ports. Exporters and other road users could benefit
substantially from a better integration between the National Road Network
and Lima's urban road network to access Lima's port and airport.
Currently, both networks are dissociated, limiting and delaying access to
the port and airport from the Northern, Central and Southern Pan-American
Highways, generating high operating costs for trucks and other vehicles.
The overall transport sector is hampered by poor road conditions and weak
institutional capacity for maintenance.
Finally Peru lacks an effective network of distribution centers,
particularly a most needed logistic and technology terminal at El Callao.
The close location of the airport and port at El Callao, begs for that
type of terminal, which would generate a powerful impact on reducing
logistics costs, as demonstrated elsewhere.
e. Inadequate export finance infrastructure
Preliminary results from an ongoing World Bank study on micro-constraints
- 7 -



to growth in Peru indicate that limited access to adequate export finance
instruments is one of the major problems of Peruvian exporters. This
finding is supported by discussions with financial institutions and
exporters, all confirming that only a few mainly large exporters have
access to working capital loans from the banking sector, and even less to
structured export finance products such as export insurance, international
leasing, etc. Moreover, there are reasons to believe that the situation
has grown even worse in recent years due to a credit crunch. Since 1998,
lending to the private sector has dropped significantly with the ratio of
private sector credit to GDP falling from 27 percent of GDP in 1998 to 2
percent as of March 2001. Ironically, this evolution has coincided with a
substantial modernization of the Peruvian financial sector and its
regulatory framework, which led to market entry by European and US
institutions and thereby to a significant increase in the potential of the
domestic market to offer sophisticated export finance products and
services.
From a policy perspective, the improvement of the access to export finance
involves two dimensions. First, policy makers have to find ways to reverse
the trend towards ever growing risk aversion in financial institutions and
thereby end the current credit crunch. A recent diagnostic performed under
the joint WB - IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program has identified two
major factors contributing to this recent credit crunch: (i) the current
indebtedness problems in the Peruvian corporate sector and the lack of
efficient market exit mechanisms for insolvent companies, and (ii) the
inflexible and deficient legal and judicial framework for executing and
realizing of collateral. An analysis of bankruptcy statistics provided by
INDECOPI confirms that export sectors are equally affected by these
problems. Over a third of the 1635 troubled companies undergoing
restructuring at INDECOPI in 2001 originated from sectors such as mining,
fisheries, agribusiness etc. Second, policy makers need to help introduce
adequately designed export finance instruments for SMEs. Recent
experience made by COFIDE, the state-owned second-tier bank, suggests that
success in this area will depends on gaining a better understanding of the
specific constraints for small and medium exporters. Discussion with
financial institutions seem to indicate the low level of "formalization"
of SME's in terms of accounting practices, management and corporate
governance structure, quality standards, etc., is a key issue to be
addressed.
2. Objectives
The proposed project is set within a major comprehensive effort from the
Government of Peru (GOP) to significantly improve its competitiveness and
to restore economic growth and employment. It will also permit Peru to
take advantage of new trade opportunities with its largest trading partner
(the United States) under the recently approved ATPDEA (Andean Trade
Promotion and Drug Eradication Act).
The project's development objectives are to assist the GOP to: (i) put in
place a more streamlined, integrated and effective institutional and
policy framework to increase non-traditional exports; (ii) develop and
implement initiatives designed to foster the entrance of new export market
participants, especially small and medium producers.
The project would achieve these objectives by: (i) elaboration and
- 8-



implementation of a national plan to improve Peru's competitiveness
drawing from locally-generated regional strategies and partnerships with
the private sector; (ii) strengthening mechanisms of interaction and
cooperation between private and public parties at regional, national and
local levels; (iii) disseminating information and training to the private
sector and selected public sector institutions; (iv) conducting pilot and
small scale initiatives to test alternative schemes to improve quality and
productivity; (v) analyzing new market opportunities, instruments for
trade facilitation, inefficiencies in the distribution chain and export
processing, and preparing design and feasibility studies for
infrastructure bottlenecks in transport logistics; and (vi) refocusing
and overhauling key public sector entities to achieve their institutional
objectives and boost Peru's competitiveness.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's completed, ongoing, and future technical and analytical work
has helped and will continue to advance the Government's diagnosis of the
major constraints impeding the increase in it export competitiveness and
in the design and development of programs to address them. The Bank has
also played an important role in helping the authorities to identify and
take advantage of global and regional expertise to initiate actions on
policy reform and institution-building already underway. Moreover, its
continued involvement should bring weight and credibility to the
Government's reform effort, especially for signally the private sector on
the orientation of the new export strategy. Looking to the future, the
Bank is well placed through its planned broader lending for
competitiveness to further support the GOP's policy and institutional
reform agenda as well as meet the significant financing needs for new
physical infrastructure working closely with other donors and their
leadership in other areas of the competitiveness agenda.
4. Description
The following are the proposed components and subcomponents of this
technical assistance project.
I. Improving Strategic Planning & Institutional Framework for Export
Promotion
I.1 Support to Elaboration of National Competitiveness Plan:
- Outreach and Civil Participation Activities
- Capacity Building & Training
- Elaboration of Strategic Plan for ATPDEA
(MINCETUR)
-   Advisory Assistance on other specific issues to
be selected
I.2 Diagnostic Studies & Strategic Benchmarking
-   Comparative Study on Fiscal Constraints
-   Analysis of major constraints to exports by region
-   Comparison analysis of industrial parks in Peru
with international best practices
-   Others Studies to be defined
I.3 Strengthening of Export Promotion Function within
Ministry of External Trade & Tourism
-   Review of organizational structure to improve link
-9-



with PROMPEX
-   Building-up of in-house market intelligence &
strategic planning capacity
-   Functional design of Comite Regionales de
Comercio Exterior (CARCES) & Implementation
Assistance
-   Capacity-building & training
I.4 Institutional strengthening of Ministry of Foreign
Affairs:
-   Definition of new pro-trade Institutional Vision
& Structure for Peru's representation in
foreign countries through embassy & consulate
network
- Concept implementation in 6 embassies /consulates
to be selected.
- Capacity building / training
I.5 Institutional strengthening of PROMPEX
- Definition of new Institutional Vision, Structure
& Strategic Plan
- Capacity building & development of regional
export promotion plans
- Capacity Building & Training
- Advisory Assistance on Selected Issues
I.6 Institutional strengthening of PROMPYME
- Capacity building & training on trade related issues
- Strengthening of in-house market intelligence
- Training for Trainers
- Advisory Assistance to design of training for
small & medium exporters
- Initiatives to link and integrate SMEs with large
producers and into the supply chain
II. Adoption and Implementation of Effective Quality Practices
II.1 Promotion of Effective Quality Practices in the
Private Sector:
- Design of Quality Awareness Program
for Business Community & Training Scheme
for Dissemination
- Design & Implementation of Training Schemes
for Selected Non-Traditional Export Products
II.2 Improvement of Quality Management & Regulation
in Public Sector
-   Reform of Certification Process for Export
products (INDECOPI, DIGESA, SENASA)
-    Better Linkages to Private Sector (INDECOPI)
-   Quality-Based Incentive Scheme in Government
Procurement Process
II.3 Creation of Professional Society of Quality
Practitioners & Association of Laboratory
Managers
- 10 -



II.4 Upgrade of Centro de Innovation Tecnologica
(CITE) concept & Elaboration of Pilot Program
for:
- garnment industry
- producers of wood products
- packaging for selected agribusiness
products
- maintenance & cleaning Services
III. Improving Access to Export Finance
III.1 Advisory assistance to PROMPYME on design
of export finance instruments for PYMES
III.2 Design of International Leasing Scheme for
capital goods
III.3 Design of Flexible Procedures for Collateralization
of Assets and their Realization
III.4 Review of Bankruptcy procedures at INDECOPI
III.5 Diagnostic Study on existing Barriers to increased
formalization of SMES
IV. Reduction of Logistic Costs
IV.1 Diagnostic Studies:
-   Benchmarking of procedures for import/export
at ports
-   Analysis of determinants for "missing markets"
in secondary transport services (containers &
freight, cold chain, freight brokerage services.)
-   Port performance benchmarking
-   Diagnostic and impact studies of logistics
and technology multi-modal terminal to serve
port and airport
-   Diagnostic and impact studies of a coherent
network of regional logistics and distribution
centers
- Others Studies to be defined
IV.2 Feasibility & Environmental Impact Studies for
following Infrastructure Projects:
-   Improvement of access to Port of Callao
-   Improvement of access to Regional Ports
-    Improvement of departmental road network
IV.3 Improvement of Framework for Private
Participation in Transport Infrastructure:
-   Institutional Strengthening of OSITRAN
-   Institutional Strengthening of Privatization
Entity at ProInversion
IV.4 Institutional Strengthening of Entities responsible
for the maintenance and rehabilitation of
departmental



V. Project Administration
V.1 Executive Director for National Competitiveness
Council
V.2 Project Coordinator PIU
V.3 Technical Experts PIU (2)
V.4 Procurement & Financial Management Experts
PIU (3)
V.5 Equipment PIU
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $4.00
IBRD $20.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $24.00
6. Implementation
(a) Implementation period
The project will be implemented over a three and a half year period
(FY03-FY05).   The implementation period should support the actions to be
taken under the program loans. It will be completed by June 30, 2006, and
closed by December 31, 2006. The comprehensive program of reforms for
export competitiveness should continue through the end of the decade.
(b) Executing Agency
The Borrower for the loan will be the Republic of Peru. The project will
be executed by the Office of the Prime Minister (PCM) with the assistance
of the Technical Secretariat of the National Competitive Council that will
undertake direct responsibility as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
Additional technical capacity and specialized expertise will be available
to the PIU through the participation of public and private sector agencies
which will benefit from project implementation.     PCM is currently working
on defining the project organization and procedures to support project
implementation which will be described in detail in a Project Operation
Manual (POM) to be submitted by appraisal.
The PIU will have primary responsibility for project coordination,
monitoring and reporting tasks. Project administrative support required
by the PIU regarding budget, accounting, treasury and contract sign
processing, will be provided by the PCM's Administrative Secretariat while
legal support will be undertaken by the PCM's Legal Secretariat staff.
Technical specialists will be hired under the Technical Secretariat/PIU to
carry out work related to project oversight, monitoring and coordination
with participating agencies as well as provision of technical assistance
to them, as needed. Responsibility for specialized procurement and
financial management activities to meet the fiduciary requirements of the
Bank will be located in the PIU. Experts will be hired in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank to be responsible for coordination:
- 12 -



outside PCM, with beneficiary agencies on contracting related activities
and processing of payments; and within PCM, with the Administrative
Secretariat in order to ensure timely processing of contracts and
payments. Establishment of the Project Implementation Team with
appropriate staffing, organization systems (including a financial
management system) funds, facilities and other resources in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
To define work programs, roles and responsibilities, resource
requirements, and expected results of the planned technical assistance
activities, the PCM will enter into Participating Institution Arrangement
Agreements. (PIAAs) with each beneficiary institution. Submission to the
Bank of draft PIAAs would be a condition of negotiations. Signed PIAAs
with all participating institutions would be a condition of effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
The proposed project comes at a critical time when the Government has
identified the export sector, particularly non-traditional exports, as a
key element of Peru's economic growth strategy. Moreover, the setting of a
target to double such exports over the period of the current
administration serves as a focal and rallying point for the many agencies
and institutions which will play a role in carrying out the Government's
strategy and meeting the exports goal. In addition to the high priority
being given to the contribution of the project, its sustainability is
likely to be enhanced further because of the non-political nature of many
of the interventions needed, but more importantly, because many of the
technical assistance and training activities to be carried out will be
directed at supporting the private sector's efforts to improve product
quality, transportation logistics, and cost and processing time reductions
which should translate as concrete benefits to firms. These benefits and
self interests of the private sector should serve as a strong anchor for
supporting the Government's continuing efforts in promoting its trade
agenda and undertaking additional policy and institutional reforms.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
n OED reviews of technical assistance operations have demonstrated that TA
operations have high rates of failure in achieving their development
objectives and to be successful, they must be backed by a high level of
government commitment to undertake policy and institutional reforms. In
this case, this TA operation supports the Government's own priority
program for improving competitiveness, and this is a significant risk
mitigation factor.    Its institutional home in the Prime Minister's Office
also gives it political visibility and backing.     Finally, as outlined in
the CAS, this TA operation is only the first step in a sequential program
of Bank support with possible additional investment and program support
for the competitiveness agenda during the CAS period.     Progress on this
TA operation will be an important indicator of Government commitment and
action in this area.
n The lack of counterpart funds, especially during a time of fiscal
constraint, has been an implementation bottleneck in other countries in
the region and also in Peru. Because of the importance of the TA program
and its urgency and because fiscal pressure are expected to be
significantly greater in 2003 as a result of postponed privatizations and
the revenues associated with them, the project's financing plans includes
- 13 -



an increased share of Bank financing to fit the project within the three
year time frame requested by the Government.
n Bank experience with TA loans involving more than one beneficiary has
demonstrated the importance of having implementation arrangements that
ensure effective coordination of the program. This will be achieved under
the project through the key role of the NCC and through the PIAAs to be
signed between the PCM and each beneficiary institution.
n Of late, there has been a significant backlash in Latin America and many
other parts of the developing world to the traditional export led market
oriented policies.    Public support for such policies may be fleeting if
the policies do not show quick and broad based results.      To take this
into account, the project is designed to include a highly participatory
process for the preparation of a National Competitiveness Plan, to include
measures to integrate small and medium enterprises into the export chain
and to focus on initiatives to improve product quality and reliability and
reduction of transport costs.    These measures would not only benefit
export competitiveness but also domestic industry and domestic consumers
in the form of higher product quality and lowered costs.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
As a technical assistance operation the project is not expected to have
any direct environmental impacts. All design and feasibility studies for
infrastructure improvement will ensure compatibility with Peruvian
environmental regulations and environmentally sound construction standards
and procedures. More streamlined procedures and actions to address
logistics bottlenecks should reduce operating costs and lower vehicle
emissions for trucks and other vehicles as port freight handling and
processing times and decreased. The project through the training
component should also heighten awareness of agency officials handling
trade matters to better enforce the terms of international conventions
relating to the environment.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
John H. Stein
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-9021
Fax: 202 676-1733
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
- 14 -



not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
October 25, 2002.
- 15 -



