Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6ef3>e-
Report No. P-4979-GM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF
SDR 17.9 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MAY 12, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit : Dalasi (D)
US$1.00 = D6.90 (April 1989)
D1.00 = US$0.14 (April 1989)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       African Development Bank
ADF       African Development Fund
ADP II    Second Agricultural Development Project
ARP       Administrative Reform Program
CPMS      Cooperative Produce Marketing Society
EDT       Enterprise Development Project
EEC       European Economic Community
ERP       Economic Recovery Program
FUA       African Development Fund tTnit of Account
GAMTEL    Gambia Telecommunications
GCDB      Gambia Commercial and Development Bank
GCU       Gambia Cooperative Union
GPA       Gambia Port Authority
GPMB      Gambia Produce Marketing Board
GPTC      Gambia Public Transport Company
GRT       Gambia River Transport Company
GUC       Gambia Utilities Corporation
IBAS      Indigenous Business Advisory Service
IDA       International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MEYSC     Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports and Culture
MEPID     Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
MFT       Ministry of Finance and Trade
MHLSW     Ministry of Health. Labor and Social Welfare
MLGL      Ministry for Local Government and Lands
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MWC       Ministry of Works and Communications
NIB       National Investment Board
ODA       Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PEP       Public Expenditure Program
PIP       Public Investment Program
SPA       Special Program of Assistance for Debt-Distressed, Low Income
Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa
SSHFC     Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Credit and Program Summrv
Borrower:      Republic of The Gambia
Amount:         IDA Credit:               SDR17.9 million (US$23 million
equivalent)
Cofinancina:   The Netherlands            DG5 million (US$2.5 million
Grant:               equivalent) will be administered
by IDA. Other cofinancing not
administered by IDA is set out in
the section on estimated
disbursements.
Terms:         IDA Credit:                Standard IDA terms with 40 years'
maturity
The Netherlands           Non-reimbursable cor.'ribution
Grant:
Program        The proposed credit and grant would support the second
Description:   phase (1988/89-1990/91) of the Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) initiated by the Government in mid-1985. It will
assist Government's efforts to build a stronger base for
long-term growth combined with sustainable balance of
payments and public finance positions. While the major
policies of the first phase of the ERP will be retained for
the second phase, the program for 1988/89-1990/91 focuses
most specifically on measures to: (i) reduce the fiscal
deficit and increase the efficiency cf government
expenditures and public investment; (ii) strengthen the
performance of the agricultural sector, including reforms
in groundnut processing/marketing policies and
institutions; and (iii) improve public sector management,
including civil service reforms and a comprehensive reform
of the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank, and steps to
improve the performance and focus the role of public
enterprises.
Estimated
Disbursements: The total financing package of US$31.5 million equivalent
includes the proceeds of the proposed credit (US$23.0
million), The Netherlands grant (US$2.5 million), and ADF
cofinancing (US$6.0 million). The funds would be disbursed
in two tranches and would finance the foreign exchange cost
of eligible imports. The first tranche of US$14.5 million
composed of US$11.5 million from the IDA credit and US$3
million equivalent of the ADF cofinancing would be
available immediately upon effectiveness. Credit
effectiveness is expected in June/July 1989, following
review and agreement with IDA on the 1989/90 budgets and
the 1989190-1991/92 public investment program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Disbursement of the second tranche of US$17 million,
composed of the balance of funds in the IDA credit and ADF
cofinancing and the US$2.5 million equivalent of The
Netherlands contribution, would be contingent upon progress
in implementing the second phase of the structural
adjustment program. It is envisaged that release of the
second tranche would occur around April/June 1990, after a
performance review. Disbursement of the entire credit is
expected to be completed within 18 months of credit
effectiveness.
Under the Special Program of Assistance for Debt-
Distressed, Low Incume Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, the
United Kingdom and the European Economic Community will
each contribute US$3.7 million in parallel and coordinated
financing, respectively, in support of the second phase of
the Government's structural adjustment program. In
addition, a balance of payments support grant from the
United States Agency for International Development has
already been committed and will provide quick disbursing
financing of US$4.2 million.
An IW Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
program for 120 percent of quota, approved in December
1988, provides financing of US$26.7 million equivalent.
Staff
Appraisal Reportt   Not applicable.
Ma`D:                IBRD No. 11922 R3



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
Credit and Program Sumary .i................... . .
PARTI- THEECONOMY .1...................... . .
A.  Long-Term Macroeconomic Context  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Past Economic Policies and Performance   . . . . . . . . . . .  3
C.  Structural Adjustment Issues   .      .... .. .........    6
PART II - PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ERP'S FIRST PHASE . . . . .  7
A.  Production Environment and Incentives  . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Exchange Rate Reform  ........  ...  ..  ..  .   ..            8
Restructuring of the Financial Sector   . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Agriculture   ..........   ............  .  .   9
B. Public Sector Role and Efficiency  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Revenue/Expenditure Policies  .....   .......  .  ..   .  10
Civil Service Restructuring ............... . 11
Public Enterprise Reforms   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
C.  External Financing of Adjustment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PART III - OBJECTIVES AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POLICIES. 1988/89-
1990191  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    12
A. Macroeconomic Targets and Policies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
B. Public Resource Management .15
Domestic Resource Mobilization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Public Expenditure   ..15
Public Investment Program (PIP)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
External Debt Management   ..19
C.  Agricultural Policies and Institutions   . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Groundnut Pricing Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Groundnut Processing and Marketing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D.  Public Sector Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . 22
Public Administration   ..22
Public Enterprise Reforms   ..23
Restructuring of the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank   24



- iv -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
Page No.
E. Supporting Actions: Economic Diversification and
Infrastructure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
F.    Social  Impact    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   26
G.  External Capital Requirements  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  28
PARTIV-THEPROPOSEDOPERATION .................. . 29
Credit History, Amount, and Financing Package   . . . . . . . 30
Disbursement  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
Procurement   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
Local Currency Counterpart Funds  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Administration and Audit ................. . 32
Monitoring of Actions and Tranche Release   . . . . . . . . . 32
Benefits and Risks .................... . 34
PART V - BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS ............. . 35
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND DONORS . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
PART VI-RECOMMENDATION ...................... . 37
TEXT TABLES
Table 1. Economic and Financial Indicators   . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Table 2. Medium-Term Macroeconomic Targets,
1988/89-1990/91  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Table 3. External Capital Requirements and Sources of Financing
1987/88-1990191 ................... . 29
INNES
Social and Economic Indicators.39. .-...     . .. ....
Status of Bank Group Operations ................ . 47
Supplementary Project Data Sheet   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Government Statement of Development Policies   . . . . . . . . .   51
Structural Adjustment Program (Matrix of Actions)  . . . . . .
LUR:      The Gambia - IBRD Map 11922 R3



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDrNT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE RE'UBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II) of SDR17.9 million (US$23
million equivalent) to the Republic of The Gambia, to support the second
phase (1988189-1990191) of the Government of the Gambia's Economic Recovery
Program (ERP). In addition, I recommend that IDA administer a proposed
non-reimbursable contribution of DG5 million (about US$2.5 million
equivalent) by the Government of The Netherlands. A Development Credit of
FUAS million (approximately US$6 million equivalent) would be made
available by the African Development Fund to cofinance the operation.
Under the Special Program of Assistance for Debt-Distressed, Low Income
Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, the United Kingdom and the European
Economic Community will each be contributing the equivalent of about US$3.7
million in parallel and coordinated financing, respectively. In addition,
a balance of payments support grant from the United States Agency for
International Development has already been committed and wilt provide quick
disbu-sing financing of US$4.2 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        This assessment of The Gambia's economic and financial situatior.
is based on a Country Economic Memorandum that was distributed to the
Executive Directors on September 6, 1985 (Report No. 5693 GM); the
President's Report for SAL I that was distributed to the Executive
Directors on August 4, 1986 (Report No. P-4362-GM); three PFPs, the latest
of which was reviewed by the Committee of the Whole on November iS, 1988;
and the work of three missions that visited The Gambia, the most recent in
September 1988, to prepare and appraise the proposed operation. Annex I
contains selected social and economic indicators.
A. Long-Term Macroeconomic Context
3.        Resource Base.  The Republic of the Gambia is the smallest
country on the African continent, occupying a narrow strip of land (350 km
long and 50 km across at its widest) bordering the Gambia River and
surrounded on three sides by the Republic of Senegal. Its population of
800,000 had an average per capita GNP of US$220 in 1987. The terrain is
flat and soils and rainfall are suitable for cultivation of a variety of
agricultural products. About two-thirds of the Gambian population lives in
rural areas, deriving its livelihood from subsistence farming, livestock,
and cultivation of groundnuts for export. Agriculture and livestock
products contributed about 31 percent of the country's GDP in 1987, with
production of groundnuts accounting for nearly 10 percent. Fisheries
contributed 3 percent of GDP. Industrial activity was 11 percent of GDP,
mostly groundnut processing, fish freezing and drying, leather tanning, a
few small bakeries, a brewery, brick, lime juice, soap, and plastics



- 2 -
production. Services constiruted 55 percent of GDP, the largest
contributions arising from trade (21 percent), Government (11 percent), and
transport (10 percent). The direct contribution of tourism (hotels and
restaurants) was 4 percent of GDP.
4.        Economic Vulnerability.  The Gambia's small size, undiversified
agricultural economy, and trade openness make it vulnerable to weather
conditions, the price of groundnuts and a few other products in world
markets, and economic conditions in neighboring countries. The country
imports about one-third of its food, all of its fuel and capital goods, and
most other manufactured goods. Exports are highly concentrated, with
groundnut products accounting for about 38 percent of the value of exports.
On the production side, these constraints require a gradual reduction of
the predominant role of groundnuts in the economy through expansion of the
productive base. There is potential for diversification of The Gambia's
productive base within agriculture, mainly into horticultural and livestock
products, and into resource-based manufacturing, fisheries, and tourism.
However, diversification of the economy to achieve higher growth and
significant improvements in living standards is a long-term challenge, and
will require the alleviation of human resource and environmental
constraints.
5.        The vulnerability of the economy arisirg from trade openness and
economic conditions in neighboring countries may be judged from the fact
that re-export trade to these countries accounts for over half of net
foreign exchange earnings. The large reexport volume reflects The Gambia's
geographic position and comparative advantage in supplying some areas of
neighboring countries. Moreover, the mix of economic policies adopted by
The Gambia has placed it in a strong competitive position at the current
time. A flexible exchange rate, absence of quantitative trade
restrictions, and low average import tariffs are the key elements in
promoting The Gambia's trade competitiveness. As an overriding principle,
the Government is determined to maintain competitive trade policies, while
avoiding subsidies or taxes that coul.' lead to economic inefficiencies in
The Gambia's pattern of economic activity.
6.        Human Resource Constraints.  The Gambia's low level of human
resource development is reflected in an estimated 15 percent literacy rate,
a 60 percent enrollment of school-age children in primary school, very low
secondary-school enrollments, very high infant and child mortality rates,
and a high incidence of chronic infectious diseases and seasonal
malnutrition. In addition, the country's rate of population growth, at 3.4
percent per annum, is among the highest in sub-Saharan Africa. The
Government is aware of the development implications of this growth, and has
expressed its commitment to promoting family planning services through
public and private sector channels. It also recognizes that raising the
long-term productive potential of the economy and the welfare of the
Gambian population will depend crucially upon improving efficiency and
expanding resources, including carefully chosen investments, in education,
health, and family planning services.
7.        Despite recent budgetary constraints, Government has protected
the basic social services. With donor assistance, it is expanding and



- 3 -
improving the quality of primary education and health services. Family
planning services are being extended to health centers in The Gambia's
interior. The Gambia Family Planning Association is also very active.
Government's objective is to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate,
currently 15 percent, so that a measurable impact on the population growth
rate can be achieved by the mid-1990s.
8.        Deterioration of the Environment.  The deterioration of the
environment is a significant long-term development constraint. In rural
areas, natural resources are threatened by increasing population pressures,
overgrazing by the increasing livestock herd, agricultural practices such
as bush fires, over exploitation of tree cover for fuelwood, salinity
5-trusion along the Gambia River, and inadequate groundwater management.
in addition to the thi:aat to rural resources, there is also a potential
threat to clean groundwater supply in the Greater Banjul area as a result
of its proximity to the ocean, mounting demand for water, and a shallow
water table.
9.        Building policies and institutions to address environmental
issues is a complex but essential task, made harder by The Gambia's poverty
and other claims on resources. Nonetheless, Government is aware that
sustainable economic growth in the long term will depend crucially on its
ability to complement medium-term structural adjustment actions with a
comprehensive approach to arrest the deterioration of the environment. The
central element in this approach is more careful use of existing resources,
through improved resource management practices. To strengthen current
efforts, Government hosted in July 1988, with assistance from the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP), a workshop on Environmental Protection
and Resources Management. As a result of the recommendations of this
workshop, Government will undertake a review of environmental issues and,
on this basis, prepare and implement a long term comprehensive action
program for improvement of the environment. In addition, the Government
enacted, in 1988, the "Prevention of Dumping Act" to prevent the
unauthorized dumping of waste on Gambian territory or in Gambian waters,
and impose heavy penalties on offenders.
B. Past Economic Policies and Performance
10.       Background.  After a period of relatively good performance in
the early 1970s, The Gambia's economic and financial situation deteriorated
after the mid-1970s, as a result of expansionary financial policies,
inappropriate exchange rate and other pricing policies, and adverse
exogenous factors. Public sector employment expanded from approximately
4,000 civil service posts and 2,000 temporary workers in 1975 to an
estimrted 10,700 civil service posts and about 5,000 temporary workers by
1985. Poorly chosen investments that failed to diversify the country's
productive base had also grown rapidly over the decade, as had an
inefficient parastatal sector that survived on Government's budgetary
support and intervention in the economy. The overall fiscal deficit
(excluding grants) widened to about 16 percent of GDP in 1984185. At the
same time, lax credit policies undermined the financial health of the two
government-owned banks. As domestic demand pressures intensified and GDP
declined in real terms, inflation accelerated to 22 percent.



- 4 -
11.       In parallel with the decline in the domestic economy. increasing
imbalances began to emerge in the balance of payments. Reflecting the
rapid growth of demand for imports by the fast-growing urban population,
and the high import component of government expenditures and investments,
imports increased dramatically. Export performance, however, was moderate
and subject to influences beyond Government's control. In 1984/85, because
of erratic input supply, an unattractive official price and drought,
marketing of groundnuts through official channels dropped to 45,000 tons
(from 93,000 in 1983/84). This, combined with a decline in the world price
of groundnuts, resulted in a 27 percent decline in official export
receipts. The decline in the international price of groundnuts and the
increase in the international oil price combined to bring about a serious
deterioration of the terms of trade.
12.       The cumulative balance of payments disequilibria led to the near
exhaustion of gross official foreign exchange reserves by 1984/85. The
Government was unable to meet most of its debt service obligations that
year, and the Central Bank could not guarantee the convertibility of the
Dalasi. A rapid erosion of confidence in the banking system ensued. The
country's inability to obtain commercial credit for petroleum, rice, and
other basic imports led to severe shortages. Reflecting these
developments, a parallel market in foreign exchange developed, with a
widening differential between official and parallel market exchange rates.
13.       Initial Reforms.  By mid-1985, the severity of the economic and
financial situation persuaded the Government that fundamental changes in
economic policy were required. With assistance from the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund, Government designed the first phase of an
Economic Recovery Program (1985/86-1987/88) to reverse the economic and
financial deterioration of the economy and initiate structural changes that
would place The Gambia on a sustainable growth path in tae medium term.
The program stressed the role of the private sector and a move toward a
greater play of market forces throughout the economy, while focusing the
public sector more narrowly on activities in support of private sector
development. As the cornerstone of the program, the Government moved from
a fixed peg to a floating exchange rate (interbank market) system in
January 1986.
14.       The introduction of a flexible exchange rate system was followed
by further substantial changes in economic policy under the first phase of
the ERP. Fiscal and monetary policies were tightened. Interest rates,
agricultural producer prices (with the important exception of groundnuts),
and all prices of consumer items were allowed to be determined by market
forces. Public sector activities -- whether in the form of public
investment or public enterprise -- were subjected to rigorous criteria of
economic efficiency, and priority was given to the development of human
resources. Initial restructuring of the financial sector was also
implemented, including liquidation of the government-owned Agricultural
Development Bank. Credit to the agricultural sector continued to be
provided through the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank, private
commercial banks, and the Gambia Cooperative Union.



15.       Performance of the Economy: 1985/86-1987188.  The Gambia's
economic and financial performance has improved continuously since the
launching of the first phase of the ERP (Table 1). The floating exchange
rate system has functioned smoothly; budget deficits, which in the first
years of the program widened in response to an increase in subsidies to
groundnut producer prices (see para. 29) and an urgent need for increased
rehabilitation and maintenance expenditure, have been kept within the
targets established under the program; restraint in credit policy has been
maintained, and real interest rates have become positive. The rate of
inflation has dropped from 70 percent in 1985t86 (when it peaked following
the 120 percent depreciation of the Dalasi) to 22 percent in 1986/87, and
to 9 percent in 1987188. The Central Bank gross foreign exchange reserves
increased from less than one week of imports in 1985186 to about 2.5 months
of imports in 1987/88, and exteinal payments arrears have been reduced. As
a result of improvements in the policy environment, an annual average
increase in real GDP of 5.5 percent was achieved in 1986187-1987188.
Table 1. Economic and Financial Indicators
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------__-----------------
Annual Average
In percentages            1984/86    1986/86    1986/87    1987/88    1985/86-1987/88
-----------------------------------------------------__----------------------__-----------------
CDP growth rate           -0.2        -0.3       6.4        6.5           8.5
Investment/GDP            19.4        16.8      20.4       18.9          18.4
Government revenue/GDP    21.3        24.2      29.6       26.5          26.8
Budget deficit/CDP        18.3        13.0      22.0       21.6          18.8
Export growth rate
(at constant prices)   -a1.9\!       5.7\i     6.3        4.6           6.4
rmport growth rate
(at constant prices)   -28. 6\1      8.6\8    11.6        0.7           e.1k
Current account deficit/GDP   20.8    29.7      33.0       24.0          28.9
External debt/GODP       183.9       202.6      182.3     172.S         186.8
Debt service/Exports      45.8        24.9      106.0      49.2          80.0
Increase in consumer prices    ..     70.4      22.3        9.2          34.0
…-------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__-----------------
Sources and Definitions: See Annex I.
Footnotes: \a At current prices
\h Average of 1988/87-1987/88 only
16.       The improved policy and institutional environment has led to a
surge in private sector activity which underpinned the economy's resumption
of growth, and has helped lay the foundation for sustained medium-term
growth and diversification of the economy. In 1985/86-1987/88, the
contribution of the fisheries sector to GDP tripled as a result of the
sector's increased profitability, which attracted new private operators.
Manufacturing expanded by 17 percent cumulatively over the same period, as
a result primarily of increased groundnut milling, but also of more
generalized output growth in response to improved economic conditions.
Construction expanded by 35 percent, reflecting an increase in public
investment. The tourism industry also benefitted considerably from the
devaluation and an increased private sector role, with tourist arrivals
expanding by 26 percent. Three new privately-owne_-d hotels started
operations in 1988/89. In addition, the private sector contributed to



- 6 -
agricultural diversification, with three major horticultural schemes
starting or expanding production in 1988189.
C. Structural Adiustment Issues
17.       The macroeconomic policies and structural measures adopted by
Government during 1985/86-1987/88 succeeded in reversing the economic and
financial deterioration of the economy. Nonetheless, further reductions in
macroeconomic imbalances coupled with additional structural adjustment
measures to promote economic growth and efficiency are still needed to
achieve sustainable balance of payments and budgetary positions and medium-
term growth. In particular, the economy still suffers from weaknesses in
public expenditure management that hinder the efficient provision of public
services and contribute to budgetary deficits; inefficiencies in the
production, processing and marketing of groundnuts; and financial and
managerial difficulties in the country's largest bank. These issues need
urgently to be addressed.
18.       Public Expenditure Management.  During the first phase of the
ERP, Government achieved the programmed fiscal adjustment and some
efficiency improvements in the provision of public services through revenue
mobilization efforts, retrenchment of the civil service, and restraint in
public sector salaries, while seeking to give priority to expenditure on
materialslsupplies and rehabilitationlmaintenance. However, there have
been heavy demands on the budget as a result of Government's decision to
subsidize groundnut production. Finally, external debt service placed a
heavy burden on the budget despite reschedulings at the Paris and London
Clubs.
19.       For the future, further reductions in fiscal deficits and
restructuring of public expenditure are necessary. Moreover, they will
have to be achieved at a time when the scope for major increases in revenue
is limited, given the high ratio of ~;overnment revenue to GDP. Two key
areas warrant increased expenditure. First, restraint in public sector
salaries since 1984/85, during a period when the cost of living more than
doubled, severely undermined morale in the civil service, reduced
motivation and efficiency, and hampered efforts to retain and attract
skilled personnel. Hence an increase in Government's salary levels is
warranted for many civil service employees. Second, despite recent
increases in expenditures on materials/supplies and rehabilitationl
maintenance, these remain grossly inadequate, and substantial increases for
education and health are still needed. Accommodating increases in these
areas calls for the early elimination of uneconomic subsidies, and
strengthened public expenditure management. Thus, restructuring actions
are necessary to achieve an appropriate level and balance among the various
categories of expenditure while permitting macroeconomic and efficiency
objectives to be attained.
20.       The Groundnut Subsector.  Government's objectives for this
subsector are to achieve an efficient pattern of production in line with
comparative advantage at world market prices, while eliminating
unaffordable and uneconomic subsidies. The decline in world market prices
for groundnuts in 1986-88 has put pressure on all participants in the



groundnut production, processing and marketing chain. Reductions in the
producer price have been implemented, from D1,800 per tonne in 1986187 to
D1,100 per tonne in 1988189, or to near parity with the world market price,
adjusted for transportation, marketing, and processing costs. Nonetheless,
economic inefficiencies persist in the processing and marketing system,
leading to high costs and aggravating the impact of declining world market
prices on farmers' incomes. The system includes the Gambia Produce
Marketing Board (GPMB), a public enterprise that holds a monopoly on
groundnut processing and export marketing, and the Gambia Cooperative Union
(GCU), which is responsible for marketing activities from the farmer to the
GPMB.
21.       During the first phase of the ERP, some efficiency improvements
in the operations of the GPMB were obtained by streamlining its operations
and reducing redundant staff in line with targets under the first year of a
three-year performance contract. Further improvements are being sought
through divestiture of subsidiary activities under the second year of the
performance contract. However, major inefficiencies have arisen in the
performance of the GCU, as a result of overexpansion of its groundnut
marketing structure, involvement in nonviable other marketing activities,
and inadequate management. This has led to high costs and the accumulation
of overdue debt to the GCDB. To reduce the economic inefficiency involved
in GCU's activities, it will be essential to expose it to competition and
restore its financial viability.
22.       Weaknesses in the Financial System.  Despite an initial
financial restructuring undertaken under the first phase of the ERP, the
government-owned Gambia Commercial and Development Bank has continued to
experience considerable losses as a result of managerial and operational
weaknesses, aggravated by the poor debt repayment record of its debtors, of
which the Gambia Cooperative Union is the largest. As this bank is the
largest bank and the only source of term lending in the country, restoring
its financial and managerial health is essential to private sector growth,
economic diversification, and efficient resource allocation.
PART II - PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ERP'S FIRST PHASE
23.       For its first phase, the ERP had the two objectives of reversing
the economic and financial deterioration of the economy and initiating
structural changes that in the medium term would place The Gambia on a
sustainable growth path. To achieve these objectives, Government sought
to: (i) create a favorable macroeconomic and sectoral policy environment
for private sector activity through the elimination of exchange rate and
other pricing distortions, and application of other incentives; and (ii)
reverse the overextension of government administration and paraste'al
activity in order to bring the public sector more into balance with the
potential for resource mobilization and the small size of the economy. The
principal actions adopted by Government are outlined below.



- 8 -
A. Production Environment and Incentives
Exchange Rate Reform
24.       In January 1986, the Government introduced a flexible exchange
rate system. This has had a major impact on economic performance and has
contributed to economic efficiency in all sectors by reducing imbalances
between the demand for and supply of foreign exchange, and providing a
clear measure of its real scarcity value as a guide to appropriate pricing
decisions. In support of this system, the Government liberalized foreign
exchange control procedures, including removal of all restrictions on
payments and transfers for current international transactions. By end-
March 1986, the interbank rate of the Dalasi had depreciated to D7.6 per
SDR (compared with the prefloat rate of D3.8 per SDR). Since then, the
rate has moved narrowly between D8.6 and D9.5 per SDR, and there is now
virtually no differential between the interbank and parallel market rates.
Restructuring of the Financial Sector
25.       At the beginning of the ERP, two government-owned banks faced
severe financial difficulties, with large non-performing loan portfolios
and an unremunerative interest rate structure. The poor performance of the
economy, the tight financial position of many public enterprises in debt
with the two banks, and political interference in credit decisions played a
ole in the banks' shortcomings.  Internal factors such as weak management,
inadequate staffing and operational procedures contributed to their
financial disarray. Since 1986, Government has allowed market forces to
play a significantly larger role in determining levels of key interest
rates in the economy. These rates are now set on the basis of a bi-weekly
tender system for Treasury bills. In 1987, Government closed down the
Agricultural Development Bank. Credit to the agricultural sector continued
to be provided by the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank, private
commercial banks, and the Gambia Cooperative Union.
26.       Regarding the GCDB, the largest bank and sole source of term
lending in the country, Government implemented a number of interim measures
to improve its financial position, pending the results of a diagnostic
study intended to identify a medium-term comprehensive program. These
measures included: (i) a ten-fold increase in the GCDB's authorized capital
from D5 to D50 million; (ii) the opening of its share capital to
prospective foreign (mainly development-oriented institutions) and private
domestic investors; (iii) conversion of an outstanding IDA credit
equivalent to D6.4 million into government equity in the GCDB; (iv)
conversion of D35 million of loans and advances from the Central Bank of
The Gambia into a long-term interest-free subordinated loan; and (v)
establishment of a Managed Fund into which some D73 million of government-
guaranteed loans extended by the GCDB have been transferred, for subsequent
collection by the GCDB on Government's behalf on a commission basis.
27.       The diagnostic study of the GCDB was completed in June 1988.  It
revealed that despite the changes in interest rate policy which enhanced
the profitability of banking operations more generally, the GCDB had still



- 9 -
not escaped from financial difficulties. This was attributed to persisting
major problems, in particular, weak management and operational
inefficiencies, including overstaf. .e of unskilled personnel. Most
importantly, the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) and some other major
debtors had been allowed to accumulate substantial overdue debt, while no
significant efforts were made by the GCDB to recover the loans under the
Managed Fund. This pointed to the need to adopt a more comprehensive
program for restructuring the GCDB, with priority managerial and
operational changes preceding further financial restructuring.
Agriculture
28.       Government's strategy in the agricultural sector under the ERP
has been to encourage increased efficiency in groundnut production,
diversification into other cash crops, and continued expansion of
foodcrops. Implementation has relied on flexible pricing policies,
expansion of the role of the private sector in output marketing and input
supplj, and provision of credit for inputs on market terms. The Ministry
of Agriculture is being restructured to focus on support activities, such
as extension services.
29.       Pricing Policies.  Because of the urgent need at the beginning
of the ERP to encourage inflows of foreign exchange into official channels
in support of the liberalized exchange rate system, in 1986187 Government
increased the producer price of groundnuts by 45 percent to D1,800 per
tonne. This was 30 percent above the world price parity at the time and
implied a large financial loss for the Gambia Produce Marketing Board
(GPMB) which was covered by a transfer payment from the budget equivalent
to about 8 percent of GDP. The higher prices also allowed farmers to
rebuild their capital stock following the two previous years of drought.
The subsidization of groundnut production was however an exceptional
arrangement, not sustainable over an extended period. Fiscal restraint and
declining world market prices pointed to the need to reduce the producer
price in subsequent years.
30.       Since 1986/87, Government's policy for the groundnat producer
price has been gradually to bring it into line with world market prices,
adjusted for processing, transportation, and marketing costs, with a view
to reducing and ultimately eliminating budgetary transfers to the GPMB.
Reflecting this policy, the officially set producer price was reduced to
D1,500 per tonne in 1987188 and to D1,100 per tonne in 1988/89, or to near
parity with the world market price, adjusted for transportation,
processing, and marketing costs. This permitted the reduction of subsidies
to the GPMB to under 1 percent of GDP in 1988/89.
31.       For other crops, Government's policy has been rot to control
producer prices. To encourage consumption of domestically-produced
cereals, in 1986/87-1987188 Government provided a moderate level of
protection to local producers of rice through a customs duty on imported
rice, as world market prices for rice were judged to be depressed
temporarily. In 1987/88, the world market price of rice rose by about 35
percent (the same rate as the customs duty), eliminating the need to
protect rice producers. Thus, Government eliminated the customs duty ir.



- 10 -
July 1988. Government also decontrolled the retail price of rice and
removed all restrictions on its importation. As a result, private traders
have replaced the GPMB (which previously held a monopoly on rice imports
and local distribution) in supplying the bulk of The Gambia's imported rice
and earlier shortages have been eliminated. Moreover, private traders are
competitive suppliers to neighboring countries.
32.       Produce Marketing/Input Supply/Credit.  Government's policies
under the ERP are to allow economic pricing for agricultural inputs,
eliminate preferential treatment of the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) in
produce marketing and input supply, and strengthen the system of
agricultural input credit to encourage the expansion of private sector
activity in marketing and input supply. Government liberalized fertilizer
distribution and retail prices, and developed a decentralized system of
seed multiplication in which contract farmers produce certified seeds that
are disseminated to farmers at full cost by private traders. In 1987/88,
Government initiated an action program to improve efficiency in the
provision of agricultural input credit through the GCU.
33.       In 1987/88, Government also sought to encourage private sector
participation in groundnut marketing by raising the buying allowance of
private traders to equal that paid to the GCU. The share of private
traders in the volume of groundnuts marketed had declined to 20 percent,
from 56 percent ten years earlier. However, this action did not accomplish
its objective, as the increase in the buying allowance was not sufficient
to cover the costs of private traders while the GCU continued to enjoy
preferential credit access and in any event has been allowed to accumulate
substantial overdue debt with the GCDB to cover the high   sts of its
groundnut operations and expansion into other activities.
B. Public Sector Role and Efficiency
34.       To reduce the fiscal deficit, bring the scope of the public
sector into balance with the needs of the economy, and improve efficiency,
Government strengthened resource mobilization efforts, made changes in
expenditure policy, improved the quality of public investment, and embarked
on medium-term restructuring programs for the civil service and public
enterprises.
Revenue/Expenditure Policies
35.       The revenue measures adopted by Government included the
introduction of a revised income tax aimed at increasing the efficiency and
equity of the income tax system and curtailing widespread tax evasion; and
the enactment of a new sales tax, aimed at broadening the domestic tax
base, improving the effectiveness of tax collection, and simplifying the
administration of indirect taxation by replacing numerous existing taxes.
Regarding expenditure policy, Government reoriented public expenditure away
from personnel emoluments and new investments into materials/supplies and
rehabilitation/maintenance in order to improve efficiency of public
services and investments. As a result of these priorities, personnel
expenditure declined in real terms by 14 percent in 1986/87 and an
additional 8 percent in 1987/88, while other recurrent expenditure



- 11 -
(excluding subsidies/transfers and debt service) increased by nearly 50
percent in real terms over the same two-year period. A three-year public
investment program (PIP) was prepared which stressed completion of viable
ongoing projects in infrastructure and services in support of private
sector development.
Civil Service Restructuring
36.       During 1986, following a comprehensive audit of civil service
permanent and temporary workers, Government retrenched 2,625 and 764
redundant temporary and established employees, respectively, and eliminated
848 vacant positions from the establishment roster. This measure was
accompanied by an embargo on the creation of net new posts, restrictions on
the filling of vacancies, and a halt to the earlier practice of
transferring funds voted for unfilled vacancies to other uses.
37.       Government also developed a comprehensive Administrative Reform
Program (ARP) for implementation during 1987188-1990/91 aimed at providing
professional management and training to staff. Under this program, a
Personnel Management Office (PMO) was created in December 1987 with the
mandate to finalize, implement, and monitor the impact of the ARP.
38.       Other programs prepared by Government for implementation in the
medium to long term aim at restructuring/strengthening sectoral ministries
in planning, monitoring, and delivering core programs in support of private
sector development of productive activities and addressing the country's
long-term constraints to sustained growth. Accordingly, priority has been
given to restructuring/strengthening the ministries of Works and
Communications, Agriculture, Education, and Health.
Public Enterprise Reforms
39.       The Government's strategy under the ERP is to reduce the scope
of the parapublic sector while making systematic efforts to improve the
performance of enterprises remaining in its portfolio. In addition, a
moratorium has been in effect on the creation of new public enterprises.
The National Investment Board (NIB), which has as its mandate to monitor
public enterprises and promote private sector investment, was given
responsibility for acting as an independent oversight agency for public
enterprise reforms, and its capacity to exercise oversight functions was
strengthened by having it represented on governing Boards of public
enterprises.
40.       Rationalization/Divestiture Policies.  In November 1986, the
Government approved a plan to divest its holdings in several enterprises.
Subsequently, it sold its holdings in the Standard Chartered Bank, CPAO (a
trading company), and Old Atlantic Hotel, and concluded a leasing agreement
with a foreign company to operate the wholly-owned Atlantic Hotel.
41.       Performance Contracts.  In order to reverse the financial
deterioration of public enterprises, Government introduced a system of
performance contracts specifying steps to improve their efficiency and
lower costs. Contracts were signed with the Gambia Produce Marketing Board



_ 12 -
(GPMB), the Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC), and the Gambia Port
Authority (GPA). GPA has become unambiguously profitable. To achieve
additional improvements in the performance of the GPMB and the GUC, these
enterprises have recently started the second year of their contracts under
new management.
C.   External Financing of Adjustment
42.       The first phase of the ERP was supported by a First Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAL I) which was approved by the Executive Directors on
August 26, 1986. The total financing package was US$39.5 million, of which
US$18 million was from the Special Facility for Africa and IDA, US$4.3
million and US$2.5 million were from Special Joint Financing from the
United Kingdom (UK) and a grant from The Netherlands, respectively, US$11.5
million was cofinanced by the African Development Bank (ADB) and US$3.2
million by the Saudi Fund. An additional US$2.1 million was provided by
the United States Agency for International Development. The program was
also supported by a stand-by and two annual arrangements under the  IF's
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) program, on the basis of Policy
Framework Papers (PFPs) prepared jointly by the Government, the IMF, and
the Bank. The Government's commitment to pursuing and strengthening its
reform program was recently reaffirmed in the third-year Policy Framework
Paper that was presented to the Committee of the Whole on November 15, 1988
as a basis for the IMF's support under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) program for the second phase of the ERP approved in
December 1988. Relations with the IMF are discussed more fully in Part VI
(para. 123).
PART III - OBJECTIVES AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POLICIES, 1988/89-1990/91
43.       The Government of The Gambia has recently begun implementation
of a second phase (1988/89-1990/91) of the ERP to achieve further
reductions in macroeconomic imbalances and greater economic efficiency
through structural strengthening of key sectors of the economy. The
program is intended to build a stronger base for medium-term growth and
sustainable balance of payments and public finance positions. As under the
first phase of the ERP, the emphasis is on creating conditions to promote
rapid development of the private sector within an economically efficient
policy environment while restructuring the public sector to bring its
activities further into line with the resources of the economy and its
comparative advantage in providing key public services.
44.       While the implementation of the second phase of the ERP embraces
the main themes of the first phase and will retain all its principal
policies, the Government has identified three areas where additional
structural changes can make a major contribution towards overall growth and
efficiency objectives. These concern the need for:



- 13 -
(i)       strengthened public expenditure management, to achieve an
appropriate level and balance between investment and
recurrent expenditure and, within the latter, between
salaries and other expenditure for improved efficiency in
the provision of public services, removal of constraints to
sustained growth, and further fiscal adjustment;
(ii)      measures to improve efficiency in groundnut production,
processing and marketing, notably a flexible groundnut
producer pricing policy and measures aimed at restoring the
financial viability of the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU)
and encouraging private sector participation in marketing
activities; and
(iii)     improved management of the public enterprise sector, most
notably, a comprehensive reform of the Gambia Commercial
and Development Bank (GCDB), the largest bank and sole
source of term lending in the country, aimed at
strengthening both its financial and its managerial
operational standing.
45.       There follows a discussion of the specific macroeconomic targets
and policies for 1988189-1990/91. These reflect the third-year Policy
Framework Paper reviewed by the Committee of the Whole in November 1988.
The presentation of the structural adjustment program is in four subsequent
sections: (i) public resource management, including measures to strengthen
public expenditure management; (ii) agricultural policies and institutions,
including measures to improve efficiency in groundnut production,
processing and marketing; (iii) public sector management, including reform
of the GCDB; and (iv) supporting actions: economic diversification and
infrastructure. Following the presentation of the structural adjustment
program, an assessment is made of its social impact. To conclude, the
external capital requirements in support of the ERP's second phase are
assessed.
A. Macroeconomic Targets and Policies
46.       Medium-Term Growth Prospects.  Government has set a target for
real GDP growth of about 4 percent per annum in 1988/89-1990/91 and beyond.
The growth effort is expected to be broadly based, with expansion of
production in agriculture (in particular horticulture), livestock,
fisheries, resource-based manufacturing, and tourism related activities.
The overall growth in the economy would be sufficient to allow further
modest increases in real per capita private consumption. In line with
planned fiscal policies, public consumption is expected to decline in real
terms. Attainment of the targets is predicated on implementation of the
program of adjustment measures described below as well as on Government's
ability to build a stable macroeconomic and institutional framework for
growth. This includes efforts to ensure efficiency in the provision of
public services, public investments, and groundnut processing and
marketing; and restoring the viability of the financial system.



- 14 -
Table 2. Medium-Term Macroeconomic Targets, 1988/89-198./91
Annual Avorage
In percentages            1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1988/89-1990/91
GDP growth rate            4.3        8.9        3.9             4.0
Investment/GDP            19.8       18.8       18.6            18.9
Government revenue/GOP    28.6       25.9       24.S             2656
¢overnment expenditure/GDP    84.8   31.9       30.3             82.3
Budget Deficit/GOP         8.3        8.0        6.8             6.7
Export growth rate
(at constant prices)     8.2        6.6        6.7             6.5
Import growth rate
(at constant prices)     7.7        6.4        6.2             6.8
Current account deficit/GDP   22.4   21.1       19.6            21.0
Debt service/Exports       64.9      49.7       27.3            44.0
Sources and Definitions: See Annex 1.
47.       Macroeconomic and Financial Policies.  Government's aim is to
reduce the overall fiscal deficit (excluding grants) from 21.5 percent of
GDP in 1987/88 to 5.8 percent of GDP by 1990191 (see Public Resource
Management, below). The rate of inflation is to be lowered from 9 percent
in 1987/88 to 6 percent in 1990/91. In the external sector, Government is
aiming to reduce the current account deficit (excluding official transfers)
from 24 percent of GDP in 1987188 to 19.5 percent of GDP by 1990191,
reflecting renewed growth in export activities in agriculture, fisheries,
and tourism. Government is also aiming to reduce the debt service ratio
from 49 percent in 1987/88 to 25-30 percent in the early 1990's, reflecting
the elimination of external payments arrears by June 1990. This implies
that external financing be sought only on the most concessional terms in
the future. Government also aims to raise foreign exchange reserves to the
equivalent of 6 months of imports by 1990191. This level of reserves is
justified by The Gambia's small size, undiversified economy, and trade
openness, which make it vulnerable to weather conditions, the price of
groundnuts and a few other products in world markets, and economic
conditions in neighboring countries.
48.       Government's major policy tool to encourage expansion of
economic activity by the private sector, diversification of the economy,
export growth, and economic efficiency will remain the liberalized exchange
rate system. Key supporting policies will be a liberal trade policy
characterized by an absence of quantitative restrictions and low average
tariffs. Government is also committed to tight credit and flexible
interest rate policies to stem possible pressures on prices and the
exchange rate, mobilize additional financial savings, and promote greater
efficiency in resource allocation (see Public Resource Management, below).
The support of the IMF in monitoring the implementation of key
macroeconomic and financial policies is expected to be provided throughout
1988/89-1990/91 within the framework of the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility approved in December 1988 (see para. 123).



- 15 -
B. Public Resource Management
49.       An important objective of the Government's public resource
management policies is to reduce the overall fiscal deficit (excluding
grants) from 21.5 percent of GDP in 1987/88 to 5.8 percent of GDP by
1990/91. The substantial decline in the overall deficit is to be achieved
primarily by the elimination of subsidies/transfers to the Gambia Produce
Marketing Board (GPMB, see Agricultural Policies and Institutions, below),
and the Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC). At the same time, further
revenue mobilization efforts will be made, especially in the area of sales
tax and reduction of tax evasion. In parallel with these efforts,
Government will take actions to restructure public expenditure and enhance
efficiency in the provision of public services and implementation of
development programs, particularly in the social sectors and
infrastructure. An important element to achieve the restructuring of
public expenditure is Government's plan to adopt a comprehensive approach
to public expenditure programming and monitoring, as described below. The
key actions to achieve the public resource management objectives are set
out in the following paragraphs.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
50.       Since the ratio of taxes to GDP is already 26.5 percent in The
Gambia, compared with ratios averaging under 20 percent in other sub-
Saharan countries, the scope for increased revenue is relatively modest.
Government's objective is to achieve on average a 10 percent annual growth
in revenue (at current prices) in 1988/89-1990/91. Following up on the
adoption of the sales tax at the importer level in July 1988, Government
has progressively extended the tax to major service sectors, including
telecommunications, air transport, insurance, hotels, restaurants,
nightclubs, cinemas, and casinos. Completing the extended coverage is
scheduled for June 1989.
51.       Additional revenue is expected from measures to curtail tax
evasion.  Although this problem was alleviated through Government's past
efforts, some specific problem areas remain. Under the second phase of the
ERP, Government is focusing on minimizing revenue leakages from the
misclassification of imports as duty-free items, as this is the area with
largest potential to generate additional revenue. With external technical
assistance, Government is closely monitoring and assessing the impact of
this effort and of the sales and revised income taxes. Assessment reports
will be completed by June 1989, and will serve as the basis for follow-up
measures in 1989/90 to ensure the attainment of the efficiency, equity, and
revenue generation objectives of these efforts.
Public Expenditure
52.       During the first phase of the ERP, Government contained and
rationalized public expenditure through retrenchment of the civil service
and restraint in public sector salaries, while seeking to give priority to
expenditure on materials/supplies and rehabilitation/maintenance. As a
result of these priorities, personnel expenditure declined in real terms by
14 percent in 1986/87 and an additional 8 percent in 1987/88, while other



- 16 -
recurrent expenditure (excluding subsidies/transfers and debt service)
increased on average by about 20 percent in real terms over the same two-
year period. Moreover, the development budgec was reoriented to focus
almost entirely on rehabilitation and maintenance activities.
53.       Nonetheless a number of publi( expenditure issues persist which
have limited Government's ability to implement its expenditure priorities
as rapidly as was wished. Payments of subsidies and transfers have made a
large claim on the recurrent budget (38 percent in 1987/88), primarily to
subsidize groundnut production. At the same time, The Gambia's heavy
external debt burden consumed over 8 percent of the 1987/88 recurrent
budget, despite rescheduling agreements covering much of the country's
external debt obligations. Finally, restraint in public sector salaries
and a distorted civil service grade structure have undermined morale in the
civil service, leading to reduced productivity and hindering Government's
ability to retain and attract skilled personnel. These factors place
competing demands on the budget. Moreover, despite increases in recent
years, expenditures on materials/supplies and rehabilitation/maintenance
still remain grossly inadequate, while substantial increases for education
and health are needed to alleviate the country's human resource constraints
to sustained growth. To reconcile competing demands for resources,
Government is now seeking to eliminate payments of uneconomic subsidies.
It will also strengthen public expenditure management so that an
appropriate level and balance among the various categories of expenditure
can be achieved, paving the way for improved efficiency, removal of
constraints to sustained growth, and further fiscal adjustment.  The
following steps have been taken or are planned.
(i)       The 1988/89 recurrent and development budgets and the
1988/89-1990/91 public investment program reflect the
priorities under the ERP.  Government's recurrent budget
priorities for 1989/90 are to increase the share of
materials/supplies and rehabilitation/maintenance in the
recurrent budget to around 25 percent (from 23 percent in
1988/89), the share of education to about 16 percent (from
13.2 percent in 1983/89), and the share of health to about
10 percent (from 8.6 percent in 1988/89). The additional
allocation to the Ministry of Education will give priority
to primary education, which will increase its share in the
Ministry of Education's recurrent budget to around 45
percent (from 42.8 percent in 1988/89). This increase in
expenditure will allow recruitment of additional teachers
for expansion of the system, and greater availability of
materials/supplies for quality improvements. The
additional allocation to the health sector will focus on
materials/supplies and rehabilitation/maintenance for
expansion and quality improvements in the provision of
family planning services.
(ii)      Subsidies and transfers to public enterprises were reduced
from 13 percent of GDP in 1987/88 to 1 percent in 1988/89,
and will be eliminated as of 1989/90 (see para. 63 below



- 17 -
for an assessment of the impact of this measure on the
groundnut subsector).
(iii)     Civil service grades have been restructured and provisions
have been made in the recurrent budget for an increase in
personnel emoluments of about 13 percent in real terms in
1988189 (see Public Sector Management, below). It ie
estimated that this increase, granted as of January 1,
i989, will raise the share of personnel emoluments in the
recurrent budget in 1988/89-!989190 to no more than 30
percent (from 16 percent in 1987/88).
(iv)      Restructuring/strengthening of the Ministries of
Agriculture, and Works and Communications (see Public
Sector Management, below) has started.
54.       To establish L framework for achievement of its budgetary
objectives on a sustained basis, Government plans to prepare a
comprehensive rolling three-year public expenditure program (PEP) that
identifies explicitly the recurrent expenditure needs of past and ongoing
programs, including those in the public investment program. This would
facilitate the achievement of Government's objectives in an efficient and
effective manner, by providing a framework for an appropriate level and
balance among the various categories of expenditure. The initial
preparation of the three-year PEP will give priority to the social
services, to expedite human resource development, and infrastructure and
agricultural support services, to facilitate development of the private
sector. By end-January 1990, Government intends to complete a three-year
assessment (1990/91-1992/93) of the recurrent expenditure required to
improve efficiency of programs and completed and ongoing projects of the
ministries of Education, Health, Works and Communications, and Agriculture.
This assessment will reflect changes arisir.g from restructuring efforts
within these ministries and new policy initiatives, such as the forthcoming
implementation of education policy reforms. On the basis of these
assessments, Government will prepare consolidated three-year expenditure
programs for the four ministries which will be updated and rolled forward
every year. First-year requirements will guide the allocation of resources
in the 1990/91 recurrent and development budgets. Subsequently, Government
will take the same steps regarding other ministries. Government expects
the preparation of the entire rolling three-year public expenditure program
to be completed by 1991192.
Public Investment Program (PIP)
55.       PIP Size and Content.  In the context of preparation of the
1988189 development budget, Government reviewed and rolled forward the
three-year public investment program to the period covering 1988/89-
1990/91. This review resulted in a level of government development
expenditure for 1988/89 equivalent to 14 percent of GDP, or about US$32
million, and the same amount in each of the two following years. These
amounts reflect the likely availability of resources on suitably
concessional terms and the need to provide adequate infrastructure and
support services for the development of the private sector and promote



- 18 -
human resource development. In May/June of each year, Government will
update its three-year PIP taking into account both macroeconomic factors
such as resource availability and public debt servicing capability. The
PIP will in future include all grant- and loan-financed projects which
Government and public enterprises are partly or wholly implementing.
56.       The PIP includes only projects for which financing has been
assured and which respect the priorities and efficiency criteria
established under the ERP. These criteria are: (i) completion of adequate
feasibility studies; (ii) an economic rate of return (where calculable) of
at least 15 percent, and for projects in the social sectors where the
economic rate of return is not calculable, projects must be least-cost
alternative to achieve project objectives; and (iii) compatibility of the
recurrent cost implications with future recurrent budgets. In addition,
among projects that meet these criteria, priority will be given to those
with net foreign exchange generating or saving potential; to those that
support rehabilitation and maintenance of existing assets, rather than
expansion or creation of new assets; and to projects in support of long-
term human resource development. The public _ector would not engage in
investments in productive sectors which might be of potential interest to
the private sector. Updated PIPs will respect the same criteria and
priorities.
57.       The 1988/89-1990/91 PIP excludes two major projects that failed
to meet the above criteria. A project to develop the Fisheries Products
Marketing Corporation was cancelled, because the project appeared to be
more suitable for private sector investment. A proposal to develop a
ranching project under the management of the Gambia Livestock Marketing
Board was dropped for the same reason. In addition the project was unable
to demonstrate prospects of adequate economic returns.
58.       PIP Reserve Projects.  Government is currently preparing a
number of *reserve" projects for future inclusion in the rolling three-year
PIP once resources become available. These projects will be reviewed
closely at the time of the next updating oi the PIP (May/June 1990), and
only those that meet the established criteria will be considered for
inclusion. The review will encompass all grant- and loan-financed proposed
projects which Government and public enterprises would be partly or wholly
implementing.
59.       PIP Monitoring.  Government will also make efforts to expedite
implementation of the PIP. In the past year, implementation has been
hindered, inter alia, by cumbersome procurement procedures, inadequate
management by implementing public agencies, and Government's inabi'ity to
retain and attract skilled personnel. These problems have affected in
particular the infrastructure component of the PIP. Development of
infrastructure being an important element of the Government's support to
the growth of private sector activities, the slowdown in project
implementation threatens to dilute the impact of the favorable policy
environment on private sector development. Personnel issues are being
addressed by Government through the recently implemented pay and grading
reform and wage adjustments. Government is also taking actions to improve
procurement efficiency.



- 19 -
60.       Improvements in monitoring would greatly facilitate prompt
response by Government to implementation difficulties of the PIP and
strengthen the impact of public investments. Government considers that
improved monitoring could be achieved through the introduction of a system
of quarterly reviews of projects, based on reports by project
managers/donors on key aspects of project implementation. This information
would also facilitate the preparation of the three-year public investment
program and budgets. Government has already prepared an initial status
report. The findings of this report will be reflected in the 1989/90-
1991192 PIP and the 1989190 development budget. Subsequently quarterly
reviews would report the impact on project implementation of remedial
actions by Government following earlier revie*os. The cooperation of donors
will also be sought in providing more timely and complete information on
project implementation.
External Debt Management
61.       As part of its efforts to restore financial stability,
Government is seeking to normalize relations with external creditors by
meeting debt service obligations on time. Apart from immediate efforts to
make current payments, Government is also seeking to ensure that future
debt service is in line with -apacity to pay. Thus Government intends to
keep new external borrowings constantly under review, to ensure that these
are economically justified and on appropriately concessional termb. In
this connection, no external borrowing for projects and programs no. in the
agreed public investment program will be permitted, and the moratorium on
government loan guarantees for public and private borrowers will be
maintained. No borrowing will be undertaken in the 1-12 years' maturity
range or at other than highly concessional terms. Strict limits have been
placed on public sector short-term debt outstanding. Grant financing is to
be maximized.
C. Agricultural Policies and Institutions
62.       Agriculture remains the mainstay of the Gambian economy, and it
is likely to be the principal determinant of economic welfare and growth in
the foreseeable future. As a result of changes in the policy environment
and helped by good weather, the agricultural sector expanded on average by
about 4.7 percent per annum in 1985/86-1987/88, a major reversal from the
previous decade when growth averaged less than one percent annually. Given
the future development potential of the sector, continued growth can be
expected as long as Government maintains an environment conducive to growth
and economic efficiency. In this respect. current liberalized policies
with respect to cereals pricing, marketing and trade, and the supply and
distribution of seeds, fertilizers, and other inputs will be continued. At
the same time, Government will need to be efficient in providing key
support services, and completion of the ongoing restructuring of the
Ministry of Agriculture thus has high priority. Furthermore, Government
intends to change its groundnut pricing policy, and strengthen the
institutions involved in groundnut processing and marketing.



- 20 -
Groundnut Pricing Policy
63.       Government's medium-term objectives for the groundnut subsector
are to achieve an efficient patLern of production in line with world market
prices and eliminate unaffordable and uneconomic subsidies to groundnut
production. In line with these objectives, Government reduced the producer
price of groundnuts from D1,800 per tonne in 1986187 to D1,500 per tonne in
1987/88, and D1,l00 per tonne in 1988189, bringing it to near parity with
the world market price, adjusted for transportation, processing, and
marketing costs. This permitted a substantial reduction in subsidies paid
to the GPMB in its groundnut operations. Notwithstanding the decline in
the producer price, groundnut production expanded by 9 percent in 1987/88.
In 1988189, although the cultivated area increased, production is expected
to decline, mainly as a result of erratic rainfall and locust invasion.
Farmers have shielded themselves from the impact of declining producer
prices from the GPMB by exporting directly to neighboring countries, where
higher producer prices have prevailed, and by expanding cultivation of
other crops. As of the 1989/90 groundnut Trade Season (normally December
to March), subsidies to the GPMB will be eliminated, and the GPMB will be
allowed flexibility in determining its own purchase price of groundnuts in
line with world and domestic market conditions at time of procurement and
its own cost structure.
Groundnut Processing and MarketinR
64.       The Gambia is a price-taker in the world market for groundnut
products. Hence for The Gambia to maximize the price paid to producers,
maximum efficiency has to be achieved in all aspects of groundnut
processing and marketing. The key institutions involved in groundnut
processing and marketing are the GPMB, which holds a monopoly in processing
and export marketing; its subsidiary, the Gambia River Transport Company
(GRT); and the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) and its 86 member Cooperative
Produce Marketing Societies (CPMSs). The Gambia Commercial and Development
Bank (GCDB) is involved in the process as the source of credit to the GCU
and private traders.
65.       The operations of these institutions are closely linked.  The
GPMB pays a buying allowance to the GCU and private traders to purchase
groundnuts from farmers on its behalf and deliver to its depots. The GCU
purchases the groundnuts from farmers through its network of CPMSs and
private traders, who deal directly with farmers. The GRT transports the
groundnuts from GPMB's depots to its processing plant, from which oil and
cake are exported. Crop purchases by GCU from farmers are paid in cash
drawn on overdraft accounts at the GCDB. Replenishment of these GCU
accounts follows the delivery of groundnuts to GPMB's depots, when the GCU
and private traders receive the corresponding buying allowance from the
GPMB.
66.       Government's medium-term objectives are for the agencies
involved in groundnut processing and marketing to operate on a commercial
basis within a competitive environment. Some measures adopted by
Government during the first phase of the ERP have already improved
efficiency in some aspects of each institution's operations, as described



- 21 -
in Part II. In the future, Government will implement a program of w&easures
to achieve further improvements that takes into account the intert.wined
nature of the agencies' activities and performance.
67.       Future measures to strengthes. the GPMB, the GRT, and the GODB
are described under Public Sector Management, below. With assistailce from
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Government
plans to complete studies of GPMB's and GCU's operations, and on this basis
prepare and implement a comprehensive medium-term strategy and acA:ion
program further to improve efficiency and reduce costs.  While awaiting the
results of the studies, the GC'J will implerment the short-term action
program described below.
68.       The Gambia Cooperative Union.   Government's objective is to
improve the efficiency of the GCU in groundnut marketing while ejncouraging
private sector competition. During the first phase of the ERP, Government
sought to achieve this objective by raising the buying allowance of private
traders to equal that paid to the GCU. However, this action hEts not been
sufficient to accomplish its intended objective, primarily because buying
allowances were set too low to cover costs. The effect of this was to
deter private competition while contributing to the GCU's losi,es. In
parallel the GCU continued to enjoy preferential access to credit from the
GCDB. This allowed the GCU to extend its network of C:PMSs to an average
marketed groundnut level of under 600 tonnes per CPMS, althotzgh the GCU
estimates that an average marketed tonnage of about 1, 000 wouild be required
for its groundnut operations to be financially viable. It also enabled the
GCU to expand its activities beyond groundnut marketi:ag, neglect to control
its own internal costs, and incur financial losses which it accumulated as
overdue debt to the GCDB.
69.       As of the 1989/90 groundnut Trade Season, C;overnns.ent will allow
the GPMB to determine the price it pays to the GCU ar,d private traders for
groundnuts in line with the world market price and domestic: market
conditions at time of procurement and GPMB's own cosl: stru(wture. GPMB will
no longer set the producer price. This, combined wi,:h adherence to
equalized credit terms from the GCDB for the GCU and private traders, and
the possibility for farmers to sell directly to the GPMB -rill encourage
competition and efficiency in marketing, with a positive impact on rural
incomes. In the meantime, the GCU will implement several measures aimed at
restoring its financial viability. These measures will Etlso facilitate
private traders' involvement in marketing by removing GCIJ's privileged role
in key aspects.  Some of the actions envisaged have already been
implemented. The GCU has withdrawn from the marketing of crops other than
groundnuts and from distribution of inputs that are comnnercially non-
viable. The number of CPMSs was reduced from 86 to 54 during the 1988/89
groundnut Trade Season, so as to increase the marketed average tonnage per
CPMS to 1,000.  The GCU is also taking steps to reduce its internal costs.
In addition, Government intends to use part of its casth balances with the
Central Bank of The Gambia to write off GCU's debt fro:n the GCDB'q
accounts. GCU's liability would then be to Government, and repayment terms
would be worked out as part of GCU's restructuring.



- 22 -
70.        Further divestitures by GCU are contemiplated, including
divestiture of Consumer Cooperatives, Cooperative Thrift and Credit
Societies-, Cooperative Artisanal Fisheries, Horticultural Societies, and
construction activities. An assessment of the impact of the short-term
restruct.aring program on reducing GCU's losses and encouraging competition
in marke:ing will be completed by end-July 1989. This assessment is
expected to indicate the additional actions needed for the GCU to become
financially viable as of the 1989190 Trade Season and further encourage
private traders' involvement. Government will also continue the
implementaition started under the first phase of the ERP of the action
program tcs restore viability of the GCU's input credit activities.
D. Public Sector Management
Public Administration
71.       Unider the second phase of the ERP, Government will seek further
improvements in its internal efficiency through measures to create, in the
medium term, an adecluately remunerated, better trained, and professionally-
managed civi.1 servic:e; and to strengthen the capacity of priority
ministries ira delivering essential programs in support of private sector
development, and social services.
72.       Per%3onnel Policies.  The Government's Administrative Reform
Program objectives are to increase efficiency in the provision of public
services, improve morale, reward performance, and promote the efficient use
of human and financiall resources. Under the second phase of the ERP,
Government has impleinented during 1988189 a pay and grading reform that
aims at eliminatting .tmbalances between work performed and rewards, and a 55
percent wage acljustment for established civil servants to compensate in
part for the erosion in real wages and salaries resulting from the more
than doubling of the cost of living since 1984/85.  (wages of temporary
workers and benefits such as special allowances were not increased. The
total increase in personnel emoluments was kept to 13 percent in real terms
relative to 198;'/88.) The new salary structure and level should contribute
to reducing the loss of better qualified individuals from public service
that has occurred in recent years, and enable Government to attract skilled
personnel.
73.       Government has also already introduced a computerized payroll
system to facilitagte budget preparation and control, payments, and review
of staff performanice vis-a-vis rewards. Other actions have been designed
by the Personnel Kanagement Office. The priority areas and actions are:
(i) development, by June 1989, and implementation thereafter, of a staff
inspection program covering the whole civil service on a 3-5 year cycle;
and (ii) introduction, by December 1989, of a performance-based staff
appraisal system for grades 7-12 of the civil service, and of simpler
arrangements for grades 3-6 from May 1990. In addition, Government will
establish an Advisory Committee on Training with the mandate to set
priorities in line iwith Government's new role in the economy, and enact a
revised Public ServAtce Act.



- 23 -
74.       Restructuring/Strengthening Ministries.  In line with the
broader aim of reducing the scope of Government, improving its efficiency,
and refocusing its role on the provision of public services and support for
private sector development, a program to restructure/strengthen key
ministries is being implemented. This restructuring program involves
further reductions of staff and redeployment within ministries, as well as
focusing expenditures for materials and supplies on key functions.
Government's aim in the next year will be to complete the restructuring
that it started in the recent past of (i) the Ministry of Works and
Communications, to improve its capacity to rehabilitate and maintain
essential infrastructure; and (ii) the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), to
enhance its effectiveness in providing extension and other essential
support services to farmers. These ministerial-level programs will both be
completed by September 1989. The MOA's reorganization includes the
privatization of all its commercial and production activities.
75.       Government will also implement action programs for strengthening
the Ministries of Education and Health, in order to improve efficiency in
the provision of basic social services. The action program for the
Ministry of Health has been completed. The action program for the Ministry
of Education is under preparation and will be completed by August 1989.
Subsequently, Government plans to incorporate the Ministry for Local
Government and Lands into the restructuring program, to strengthen its
capacity to plan and monitor land allocation and use. Past weaknesses in
the ministry have hindered, in particular, the orderly development of the
Greater Banjul area. They also have resulted in encroachment of the
Tourism Development Area and the Kanifing Industrial Estate, both essential
public investments in support of broader economic diversification efforts
(see para. 87).
Public Enterprise Reforms
76.       In addition to maintaining a moratorium on the creation of new
public enterprises, Government will move further to rationalize the scope
of the public sector and improve the performance of remaining enterprises.
Of these, the GPMB and the GUC are the only enterprises that have received
budgetary support in 1988/89. This support will be eliminated as of
1989/90, at which time there will be no budgetary subsidies to the public
enterprise sector. Although enterprises other than the GPMB and the GUC
are not being subsidized through the budget, there is ample scope for
improving their efficiency and financial performance. Government is
currently seeking to realize gains in public enterprise efficiency and
financial performance through a system of performance contracts. Of the
enterprises remaining in the public sector, three are into the second year
of three-year performance contracts. An additional three will be operating
under this system in the next year. A decision regarding the ownership
structure of the Livestock Marketing Board (LMB), the only enterprise not
operating under a performance contract, will be made following a study on
the LMB which will start by December 1989.
77.       Rationalization/Divestiture Policy.  A program for divestiture
of Government's holdings in additional commercial ventures has been
prepared by the NIB, in line with Government's objective to rationalize the



- 24 -
scope of the public sector in order to bring it into balance with the rest
of the economy. Divestiture will follow the most appropriate modality in
individual situations: selling shares to partners, offering shares to the
public, or outright sale based on competitive bids. In March 1989,
Government sold its holdings in the Nyambai sawmill. Government has also
offered for purchase by the public its shares in Banjul Breweries, the
African Hotel, Seagull Coldstores, and the National Trading Corporation of
The Gambia. In addition, Government will offer for purchase by the public:
(i) by July 1989, its holdings in the Dockyard; and (ii) by December 1989,
its holdings in the Gambia National Insurance Company, the Kanifing brick
plant, and the Kotu workshop (vehicle repair). By July 1989, Government
will also convert the Ferry Services into a mixed company, and by August
1989 it will determine whether the Gambia River Transport Company should be
made a department of the GPMB or privatized. With external technical
assistance, and strengthened by earlier experiences, the NIB expects to be
able to meet these divestiture targets, although it recognizes that
purchases by the private sector might be hindered by the absence of formal
capital markets and the limited number of potential investors.
78.       Performance Contracts.  Government will strengthen and expand
the performance contract system introduced under the first phase of the
ERP, with the objective of improving further the financial performance of
enterprises by clarifying Government/enterprise responsibilities and
providing management incentives. Under the system, managers have autonomy
in operational matters (including pricingltariffs, staffing decisions, and
salary and wage structures), but are held accountable for the results, with
explicit rewards/penalties for good/poor performance.
79.       Encouraged by the results obtained to date, under the second
phase of the ERP Government has already signed second-year performance
targets with the GPMB, the GUC, and the GPA. By September 1989, it will
sign third-year performance targets with GUC and GPA, and by February 1990
with the GPMB. Government will also sign performance contracts with the
Gambia Public Transport Corporation (GPTC) and the Social Security and
Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC) by end-December 1989, and with the
Gambia Telecommunications Company Limited (GAMTEL) by end-February 1990.
By December 1989, Government will start a study of the Livestock Marketing
Board, the only public enterprise not yet under a performance contract, to
determine whether it should remain public or whether its role can be better
fulfilled by total or partial private sector involvement.
Restructuring of the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB)
80.       The GCDB is the largest bank and the only source of term-lending
in The Gambia, and restoration of its financial health is crucial to the
stability of the financial system, and the day-to-day operations of the
economy as well as its longer term diversification and growth. The
diagnostic study completed in June 1988 pointed out a number of critical
weaknesses in the bank. Based on recommendations of the study, the
Government has prepared a comprehensive action program to rehabilitate the
GCDB. This covers managerial, operational, and credit recovery actions,
and Government's intentions regarding future financial restructuring.



- 25 -
Priority managerial actions have already been implemented. The
restructuring is expected to be completed by the end of 1990191.
81.       Management.  The Government has already implemented the
difficult decisions to replace the GCDB's Board of Directors and accept the
resignation of the Managing Director. A new Board was put in place in
November 1988, and a new expatriate Managing Director is being recruited,
with ODA assistance. The new Board comprises three representatives of the
shareholders (Government, the GPMB, and the GCU), the Chief Executive of
the NIB, the Managing Director, and three representatives from the private
sector. Following appointment of the new Managing Director, the next steps
will be for the new management to appoint a Chief Banking Officer and a
Chief Operations Officer.
82.       Operations.  Operational measures include the preparation and
implementation of various policies and procedures to improve efficiency in
commercial and development banking, including handling of international
operations, accounting, internal control and auditing, and loan portfolio
management.
83.       Credit Recovery.  This component of the action program specifies
the amounts of loans that are judged to be collectible, a schedule for
their recovery, specific loan recovery targets, and the underlying actions
to achieve these. It encompasses loans under the Managed Fund (the Fund to
which unpaid loans were transferred during the previous financial
restructuring) and other non-performing loans. Under the credit recovery
program, Government intends to use part of its cash balances with the
Central Bank of The Gambia to write off GCU's debt from the GCDB's
accounts. GCU's liability would then be to Government, and repayment terms
would be worked out as part of GCU's restructuring.
84.       Financial Restructuring.  Decisions regarding further financial
restructuring of the GCDB will await an assessment of the impact of
managerial and initial operational changes, and credit recovery efforts, on
the bank's performance. Government intends to complete this assessment
report by end-February 1990, and will decide on any financial restructuring
steps in the light of the report's conclusions.
E. SupportinR Actions: Economic Diversification and Infrastructure
85.       Sustainable growth of The Gambia's economy will require
continued efforts to diversify output and strengthen economic performance.
Under the ERP, expansion of productive activity relies primarily on the
private sector. In conjunction with this, Government's role is to
establish an appropriate economic policy framework, address economic policy
issues as they arise, ensure that the public investment program gives
priority to projects to resolve potential bottlenecks to growth, and
develop policies for addressing the longer term constraints to development
outlined in Part I.
86.       To fulfill these responsibilities, Government is currently
initiating a variety of actions. Among the actions to promote
diversification through the private sector, Government is planning to



- 26 -
expand term lending by the commercial banks to small- and medium-scale
enterprises through the IDA-financed Enterprise Development Project. It
will also issue, by September 1989, the regulations governing the revised
investment code enacted in 1988, in order to provide transparent
administrative procedures for granting investment incentives. Moreover,
Government will promote several already appraised projects among potential
foreign investors for joint partnership with Gambian entrepreneurs.
Government has also committed itself to achieving the physical targets for
end-1989 for completion of the infrastructure rehabilitation program, which
has an essential role in providing support for private sector development.
87.       Beyond these actions, Government will prepare action programs
and implement them in the next few years in a number of priority areas.
Based on studies completed under SAL I, and studies that it will undertake
in the near future, Government will: (i) by July 1989, finalize a tourism
development strategy which will include a plan of administrative action to
promote the rational use of the Tourism Development Area, and tourism
development in the country's interior and maximize -he net gains to the
economy; (ii) by August 1989, complete a resource management plan and
action program to ensure that development of the fisheries sector does not
lead to depletion of this resource; (iii) by December 1989, prepare an
overall plan of administrative action and investment promotion for the full
utilization of the Kanifing Industrial Estate, including review of land
allocation and tenure, and access to public utilities; (iv) by January
1990, finalize an agricultural diversification strategy and action program;
(v) by March 1990, prepare an action program for improving groundwater
management; and (vi) by March 1990, prepare a comprehensive review of
environmental issues and action program.
F. Social ImPact
88.       Improvements in the growth environment under the first phase of
the ERP have enabled The Gambia's economy to expand by an average of 5.5
percent in each of the past two years, successfully reversing the economic
decline of previous years and resulting in increases in real per capita
incomes and consumption. As a result of financial stabilization efforts,
the rate of inflation has been significantly reduced and a climate more
conducive to the growth of the private sector has emerged, providing
enhanced employment opportunities throughout the economy. Overall the ERP
has therefore been highly beneficial, both in terms of its growth and its
equity impact.
89.       The policies under the second phase of the ERP should continue
to contribute to broadly-based economic growth and provide further
increases in per capita incomes and consumption. The reduction of
subsidies for groundnut production since 1986/87 has prompted adjustments
on the part of farmers, who have sought to protect income levels by
diversifying into other crops and direct sales of groundnuts in neighboring
countries, where higher producer prices have prevailed. In addition,
measures are being implemented to improve support services to farmers,
increase the efficiency of groundnut processing and marketing, and promote
economic diversification. In the urban areas, the recent salary and wage
adjustments in the civil service should provide some relief to the hardship



- 27 -
that resulted from the earlier retrenchment of the civil service and many
years of restraint in public sector salaries.
90.       Government also expects the poorest segments of the population
in the rural and urban areas to benefit from alternative employment and
income opportunities being provided through a number of donor-supported
programs, including community fisheries centers, artisanal coastal
fisheries, and pilot horticultural projects. Furthermore, Government has
decided to extend its pilot labor-intensive feeder roads program to other
parts of the country. Additional employment opportunities are expected
through the development of small- and medium-scale productive enterprises
supported by the IDA-financed Enterprise Development Project.
91.       Government will continue to assist retrenched public sector
workers through the Indigenous Business Advisory Service (IBAS) and the
National Investment Board (NIB). Retrenched workers are given employment
counselling, access to entrepreneurship training and more specialized
technical training, if appropriate, and credit for the establishment of
business ventures in priority sectors. Demand for the program has
nonetheless been relatively low: to date, 360 individuals have received
counselling, 315 have been trained, and 125 have received loans averaging
D9,500 for small-scale ventures in agriculture and other sectors. This
modest demand reflects greater absorption into private employment than
originally expected, associated with the revival of economic growth since
1986/87. However, to ensure that those who are less readily absorbed will
still find employment in the short to medium term, Government is currently
seeking donor support for strengthening the resettlement program under the
second phase of the ERP.
92.       Despite budgetary constraints Government has protected the basic
social services. With donor assistance, maternal and child health services
-- including family planning -- are being expanded and an urban polyclinic
in Banjul has recently become operational, providing improved public health
services to the poorest among the city's population. In 1987, seven
regional health centers were chosen for upgrading, to improve and expand
services in rural areas, of which two have been completed and another is
under construction. A nationwide immunization campaign against seven
childhood diseases has been expanded, and as a result the national
immunization average has risen from 55 percent to 70 percent in the past
two years. Nutrition programs targeted on the poorest urban neighborhoods
and rural areas have also been expanded with the help of nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs). During the second phase of the ERP, Government's
efforts in the health sector will be enhanced with continued support from
NGOs, the IDA-financed National Health Development Project, and other
donors.
93.       Education services have also been improved in qualitative terms.
Unqualified teachers are being retrenched and replaced by the rising number
of qualified teachers graduating from The Gambia College. Also with the
assistance of NGOs and increased allocations from the recurrent budget, the
supply of textbooks and writing materials has been increased, which is
expected to improve the effectiveness of schooling. Since the launching of
the ERP, primary school enrollment has risen from 50-55 percent to 60



- 28 -
percent of school-age children, and secondary school enrollment from 24
percent to 35 percent. During the second phase of the ERP, Government
intends to build on these efforts through implementation of an education
policy reform program aimed at expanding primary education enrollment and
improving the quality of edication, with the support of projects financed
by the African Development Bank and IDA.
94.       Although the initial results of the ERP are regarded as highly
positive, the Government is cognizant of the need to monitor the economic
and social impact of the ERP closely. To this end, it has reouested
ADBPWB/UNDP assistance in establishing a nationwide living standards survey
in the context of the regional Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA)
project. The agreement relating to the SDA project for The Gambia
(equivalent to US$2.b million) has now been signed, following approval of
ADF's Technical Assistance Fund Grant in September 1988. Over time, the
survey will generate the detailed social data needed for a deeper
understanding of the effects of the structural adjustment process and the
more effective formulation of economic policies and social programs to help
ensure the equitable participation of all income groups in the benefits of
development.
G. External Capital Requirements
95.       Donor support has been critical in enabling The Gambia to
realize positive results from the major policy changes undertaken so far
under the ERP. However, despite substantial efforts on the part of donors
and the Government's commitment to economic reforms, the full translation
of these reforms into a viable financial and economic situation will take
time. To achieve its future growth targets, reduce the current account
deficit of the balance of payments to a sustainable level, meet external
debt payments objectives, and build up official foreign exchange reserves
to facilitate smooth functioning of the liberalized exchange rate system,
it will be necessary for Government to obtain substantial additional
resources, on very concessional terms, from the international community.
96.       The financing requirements of t.ie next three years (1988/89-
1990/91) of the adjustment program are estimated at about US$258,6 million
(Table 3). Of this, US$168.8 million are planned to be disbursed from
bilateral and multilateral project grant and loan commitments, of which
US$144.3 million and US$24.5 million, respectively, would be provided from
existing and expected commitments. About US$7.6 million are expected from
private capital inflows. A balance of payments support grant from the
USAID has already been committed and will provide quick disbursing
financing of US$4.2 million. Further financing of US$26.7 million
equivalent (120 percent of quota) is expected from the IMF's Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility, approved in December 1988. An additional
US$31.5 million would be provided by the proposed Second Structural
Adjustment Credit, including cofinancing from the African Development Bank
and the Government of The Netherlands. Finally, US$7.4 million would be
provided by the United Kingdom and the European Economic Community under
the auspices of the Special Program of Assistance for Debt-Distressed, Low
Income Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa (SPA).



- 29 -
97.        There remains a financing gap in the balance of payments
equivalent to US$12.4 million over 1988/89-1990191. Government proposes to
fill this gap either by additional cofinancing pledges through the SPA, or
by seeking rescheduling of its debt with the Paris and London Clubs.
Table 3. External Capital Roquirements and Sources of Financing,
1987/88-1990/91
(In mlli ons of US1)
Tot, I
1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1988/89-1990/91
Capital Requirements                  79.6    91.6    90.5    76.8      258.6
Current Account Deficit (excluding
official transfers):              41.6    41.0    41.2    40.9      123.1
Amortization                        10.4    18.2    13.1    11.1       37.4
Reduction of Arrears                 9.2    18.9    16.9      0.0      83.8
Increasea in Gross Official
Reserves                          12.7    16.2    16.     18.4       49.9
IMF repurchases/repsyments           5.6     4.2     4.0      6.2      14.4
Sources of Financing:                 79.6    91.5    90.5    76.6      268.8
UMLT Disbursements From:
Existin Commttments:                77.1    65.0    69.9    50.3      175.2
OfficialTranFers                  46.3    40.8    36.2    30        1o8.8
Bilateral Loans                    1.7     1.5      1.2     1.0       3.7
Multilateral Loans                17.4    12.2    11.5    10.1       83.8
USAID (SOP-Support Grant)          2.1     2.1      2.1     6.0       4.2
IMF Financing                      9.6     8.9      8.9     8.9      26.7
ESxpcuted Commitments:                --    22.6    26.2    15.6       63.4
nff icial Transfers                 --             779    11 4T
SPA                              (--)   (6.3)   (1.1)   (0.0)       (7.4)
Biat.ersl Loans                     --     0.0      1.2     0.6       1.8
Miltilateral Loans                  -     14.6    19.1      3.4      37.1
SAL It (includ:ng cofinancing)   (--)  (14.6)  (17.0)   (0.0)    (31.5)
Private Capital                         2.4    1.4     3.1      3.1       7.6
Residual Financing Needs                --     2.5     2.3      7.6      12.4
SPA-additional pledges sought       --     25       2.         71 4
Sources: Annex I and Bsank staff estimates.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED OPERATION
98.        The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit would support
Government's implementation of the second phase of the ERP (1988/89-
1990/91). Besides consolidating the progress made in a number of areas
during the first phase of the ERP, the program includes some new important
aspects: a more comprehensive approach to public expenditure management,
measures to improve efficiency in groundnut processing and marketing; and a
comprehensive reform of the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank. The
program has been outlined in Part III of this report, and is presented in
more detail in the Matrix of Actions in Annex V.



- 30 -
Credit History, Amount, and Financing Package
99.       Discussions with Government on the scope of a possible Second
Structural Adjustment Credit began in March 1987, when a supervision
mission for SAL I visited The Gambia to discuss release of the final
tranche (May 1987). The proposed credit was identified in September 1987,
during a parallel mission with the IMF to prepare with Government the
second-year PFP. The credit was prepared and appraised in January/February
and September 1988, respectively. During this process, Government prepared
major new measures under the proposed credit, including action programs to
restructure the GCDB and the GCU, as well as implemented the Civil Service
pay and grading reform. The size and content of the 1988189-1990/91 PIP
was also agreed with Bank staff during this process. Negotiations of the
credit took place in April 1989.
100.      The proposed Development Credit would be equivalent to US$23
million on standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity, and a non-
reimbursable contribution of DG5 million (equivalent to US$2.5 million) by
the Government of The Netherlands. The Netherlands contribution would be
administered by the Association. A Development Credit of FUA5 million
(approximately US$6 million, would also be made available by the African
Development Fund to cofinance the operation.
101.      The proposed credits and grant would amount to US$31.5 million
equivalent. A first tranche of US$14.5 million, composed of US$11.5
million from the IDA credit, and US$3 million equivalent of the ADF
cofinancing would be available immediately upon effectiveness of the
respective agreements. Credit effectiveness is expected in June/July 1989,
following review and agreement with IDA on the 1989/90 budgets and 1989/90-
1991192 public investment program, and approval of the credits by The
Gambia's Parliament. The remaining US$17 million, composed of the balance
of funds in the IDA credit and ADF cofinancing, and the US$2.5 million
equivalent of The Netherlands contribution would be released following a
satisfactory performance review in February/March 1990 or at another agreed
date. This review will establish whether Government has made significant
and satisfactory progress in implementing the structural adjustment
program, and will review efforts to carry out the specific actions listed
below and in Annex III. The proposed credits and grant are expected to be
disbursed over the 18-month period ending about December 1990.
102.      In meeting the gross external capital requirements of The Gambia
over the period 1988/89-1990/91, totalling US$258.6 million, the proposed
credits and grant of US$31.5 million would be complemented by TYF drawings
under the ESAF program (US$26.7 million equivalent), assistance by the
United States Agency for International Development (US$4.2 million), other
balance of payments support under the SPA (US$7.4 million equivalent),
project financing (US$168.8 million), and private capital inflows (US$7.6
million). The SPA contributions are being provided by the United Kingdom
and the European Economic Community, which have each pledged the equivalent
of about US$3.7 million. Additional contributions of US$12.4 million are
being sought at the periodic donors' meetings to meet the remaining
unfilled gap.



- 31 -
Disbursement
103.      The proceeds of the proposed credits and grant (US$31.5 million
in total) would be used exclusively for the financing of eligible imports.
These would be reimbursed at 100 percent of the CIF cost. Public and
private sector imports would be eligible, except for:
(i)  negative list;
(ii) imports of goods procured under contracts costing less than
US$10,000 equivalent;
(iii)imported goods already financed under tied bilateral
credits or by other multilateral donors;
(iv) imported goods purchased in the local market; and
(v)  imports under existing contracts if they are single source
purchases (direct contracting), unless they can be fully
justified for proprietary or standardization reasons (see
Procurement, above), or if they were arranged under
bilateral trade agreements.
104.      Special Account.  To facilitate disbursement, a special account
would be established in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. At credit effectiveness, an initial deposit of up to
a total equivalent to US$6 million would be made into the respective
account. The account would be replenished regularly. Replenishments would
be made on the basis of fully documented reimbursement applications, except
for contracts under US$250,000, which would be on the basis of statements
of expenditure. The Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG), which has
responsibility for submitting withdrawal applications, would indicate on
the statements of expenditure the nature and origin of the goods, as well
as the payment date and would maintain all relevant supporting
documentation (invoices, evidence of shipment, customs declarations and
evidence of payment) for review by supervision missions. Expenditures
covered by the IDA credit would be in accordance with normal IDA rules,
while expenditures covered by The Netherlands' contribution would be in
accordance with the rules established under the Umbrella Agreement signed
between the Government of The Netherlands and the Association.
Procurement
105.      Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of
the funds while ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process.
Imports by Government and the private sector would follow international
competitive bidding for amounts exceeding US$250,000 equivalent. For
amounts below US$250,000: (i) Government would follow public procurement
procedures, which have been reviewed and are acceptable, and would seek
three price quotations, a procedure generally followed in The Gambia; and
(ii) private sector pirchases would follow established commercial practices
and, wherever possibte, quotations from eligible suppliers from at least



- 32 -
two countries should be sought. Direct contracting (single cource
purchase) could be used only for proprietary equipment or where
compatibility with existing equipment would call for standardized equipment
and spare parts. Verification of imports has been limited to physical
inspection by the Customs Service. Government is currently examining
options to improve the system by engaging expert agencies to certify goods
in respect of quality, quantity, and price of shipments.
Local Currency Counterpart Funds
106.      The funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange provided by
the credit would be deposited into a counterpart fund account in the CBG in
the name of the Ministry of Finance and Trade (MFT). Counterpart funds
would be channelled through the budget and allocated subject to normal
public finance expenditure procedures.
Administration and Audit
107.      The Government's ERP Steering Committee would have overall
responsibility for monitoring the implementation of the second phase of the
ERP and the administration of the IDA credit and The Netherlands'
contribution. The Committee is co-chaired by the Permanent Secretaries of
the MFT and the Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
(MEPID), and comprises the Governor of the CBG, the Chief Executive of the
National Investment Board (NIB), a representativf of the President's
Office, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
MEPID's Director of Planning, and the MFT's Deputy Permanent Secretary. A
technical subgroup of the Committee, with representatives of the GCB and
the MFT, would prepare and certify withdrawal applications, which would be
signed by the Minister of Finance and Trade or his representative. The
technical subgroup would, in particular, review import declarations to
verify those eligible for financing.
108.      The CBG will arrange for annual audit reports by auditors
acceptable to IDA within twelve months after credit effectiveness and
annually thereafter. The auditors' reports will include an opinion on the
operation of the Special Account and a separate specific reference to the
use of Statements of Expenditure.
Monitoring of Actions and Tranche Release
109.      Monitoring of performance under the proposed SAL II will be
carried out by the Steering Committee established by Government to monitor
the implementation of the ERP. The following refiects the actions which
Government has already taken under the program, and the agreements reached
with Government concerning the actions that it will take prior to credit
effectiveness (first tranche release) and the release of the second
tranche.



- 33 -
110.      The following actions have already been taken by Government
under the proposed program:
(a) agreement on the 1988189 recurrent and development budgets and
the 1988189-1990191 public investment program (paras. 53 and
55);
(b) agreement on the 1988/89 producer price of groundnuts; and
implementation of initial measures under the short-term action
program for improving efficiency in groundnut processing and
marketing, including restructuring of the Gambia Cooperative
Union (GCU) (paras. 63 and 69);
(c) implementation of the pay and grading reform and wage
adjustments, and of initial measures toward restructuring the
Ministry of Agriculture (paras. 72 and 74);
(d) signature of second-year performance contracts with the Gambia
Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), the Gambia Utilities Corporation
(GUC), and the Gambia Port Authority (GPA) (para. 79); and
(e) agreement on an action program for restructuring the Gambia
Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB), and implementation of
initial actions, including the appointment of a new Board of
Directors (paras. 80-84).
111.      During negotiations, agreement was reached that credit
effectiveness (first tranche release) would be contingent on review and
agreement with IDA on the 1989/90 budgets and 1989190-1991/92 public
investment program. The review will be carried out in May/June. Credit
effectiveness is expected in June/July 1989.
112.      During negotiations, agreement was reached on conditions for the
disbursement of the second tranche of the proposed credit. Disbursement
would be contingent on: (i) a satisfactory performance review of soundness
of overall management of the economy and progress toward the major
objectives of the structural adjustment program, namely, to create
conditions to promote growth tl-nugh the private sector, while
restructuring the public sectc    o enhance its efficiency; and (ii)
implementation of specific actions essential for achieving the objectives
of the structural adjustment program.
113.      Satisfactory Performance Review.  In line with the main
components of the adjustment program, the satisfactory performance review
will include an assessment of progress on Government's part to: (i) achieve
significant reductions in the fiscal deficit while improving efficiency in
the provision of public services; (ii) prepare and implement the initial
steps of a medium-term strategy to raise efficiency in the groundnut
processing and marketing system, including an action program to promote
GPMB's and GCU's operations along commercial lines and within a competitive
environment; (iii) implement the administrative reform program; (iv)
achieve further financial and efficiency gains in the operations of the



- 34 -
GPMB, the GUC and the GPA under performance contracts with these
enterprises; (v) implement the public enterprise divestiture program; and
(vi) achieve the physical targets for the infrastructure rehabilitation
program agreed with IDA. The full set of actions to achieve the major
objectives of the program are described in Government's Statement of
Development Policies (Annex IV) and in Part III of this report.
114.      £pecific Actions.  In reviewing the extent of progress towards
the major objectives of the adjustment program, Government and the
Association agreed at negotiations that, in addition to a satisfactory
performance review, the following actions should be taken prior to release
of the second tranche of the credits
(a)  completion of expenditure programs for the Ministries of
Agriculture, Works and Communications, Health, and Education
(para 54);
(b)  as of the 1989/90 groundnut trade season, elimination of
subsidies to GPHB's groundnut operations, allowing the GPMB
flexibility in determining its own purchase price of groundnuts
in line with world and domestic market conditions at time of
procurement and GPMB's own cost structure, and the adoption of
measures to ensure the financial viability of the GCU (paras. 63
and 69-70);
(c)  completion of the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture,
including privatization of its commercial and production
activities (para. 74); and
(d)  signature of satisfactory performance contracts with GAMTEL,
SSHFC, and GPTC; and achievement of agreed benchmarks in the
restructuring program for the GCDB (paras. 79-84).
Benefits and Risks
115.      With support from the proposed SAL II, the second phase of the
ERP is expected to lead to broadly-based economic growth, and allow
increases in per capita income and consumption in the medium term. In the
short term, there are potential administrative and political risks
associated with the program. The administrative risk relates to
Government's still weak management capacity, which despite its strong
commitment to the ERP may result in implementation delays. Because of the
limited management capacity of Government, many of the reforms being
supported through the proposed operation emphasize reduced government
intervention in the economy. Moreover, it is expected that the
implementation of the pay and grading reform, wage adjustments, and other
aspects of the Administrative Reform Program will contribute to improving
the situation by helping Gove.anment to retain and attract skilled
personnel. In addition, ongoing and forthcoming tecnnical assistance at
the key economic policy agencies, including that to be provided by IDA
through the Enterprise Development Project (EDP), will reinforce
Government's ability to implement the agreed policy reforms.



- 35 -
116.      The political risk derives partly from the elimination of
subsidies and consequent reduction in the producer price of groundnuts, and
partly from retrenchments in public sector employment as a result of
restructuring of publtc enterprises and ministries. These measures risk
weakening popular support for the adjustment program among farmers and
urban workers. Nonetheless, the overall impact of the adjustment program
on the rural sector will be positive, and it is expected that farmers will
shield themselves from income losses resulting from reduced groundnut
producer prices by diversifying production into crops of which
profitability has been enhanced by adjustment policies, and by exporting
groundnuts to neighboring countries where higher producer prices prevail.
In addition, Government is aiming to hold down groundnut processing and
marketing costs through complementary actions of the adjustment program.
It also anticipates that farmers will benefit from greater efficiency of
government services and input supply channels. Moreover, Government
expects that the recently implemented salary and wage adjustments in the
civil service, employment opportunities being provided by expansion of the
private sector, and targeted assistance to the poorest among the population
should contain the political risk.
PART V - BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
117.      The major objectives of the Bank's assistance to The Gambia are
to support Government's efforts to (i) promote efficient development of
private sector activities, (ii) increase efficiency in the utilization of
public resources, and (iii) alleviate long-term human and physical resource
constraints. The achievement of these objectives is crucial to attainment
of sustainable long-term growth in per capita incomes with equity. This
calls for comprehensive measures to promote a favorable policy and
institutional environment; focus Government's role on economic management,
rather than on direct involvement in productive activities; and reorient
public resources to development of infrastructure/support services to the
private sector and the social services.
118.      The Bank's assistance strategy to achieve the above objectives
acknowledges that structural reforms are an overriding prerequisite for
long-term growth. The proposed credit will help promote efficient
development of private sector activities by providing the framework for
further improvements in the macroeconomic policy environment; restoration
of health to the financial sector; and efficiency improvenments in groundnut
production, processing, and marketing. It will further increase efficiency
in the utilization of public resources by supporting: (i) Government's move
toward a public expenditure programming approach to budgeting to facilitate
adequate funding of priority programs and maximize their impact, while
identifying those expenditures that should be reduced, eliminated, or
postponed; (ii) restructuring of government agencies in line with
Government's focus on economic management and promotion of private sector
activity; and (iii) Government's withdrawal from productive activities
where the private sector can be more efficient, while monitoring closely
the performance of remaining public enterprises through performance



- 36 -
contracts. To alleviate long-term human and physical constraints, the
proposed credit will support Government's efforts to increase the share of
resources in the recurrent budget it allocates to education and health, and
its emphasis on primary education, and basic health care and family
planning services; and Government's focus on efficient rehabilitation and
maintenance of infrastructure in the public investment program.
119.      Other forthcoming and ongoing operations will likewise
contribute to the achievement of the Bank's assistance objectives and
complement Government's efforts being supported by the proposed credit. To
alleviate long-term human resource constraints, an education project is
under preparation which aims at supporting a recently approved education
reform that focuses on improving the quality of primary and secondary
education and increasing enrollments. This project will provide the
resources required for successful implementation of the reform beyond the
increased resources which are being provided by Government despite its
extremely constrained financial capability. A Women in Development project
under preparation will also form part of the Bank's efforts to enhance long
term human resource development.
120.      Support for alleviation of human resource constraints is also
being provided through the ongoing Health Development Project. This
project supports Government's own provision of additional resources for
programs to control population growth, increase health coverage, and
improve the efficiency of health services.
121.      Other ongoing projects will promote the development of private
sector activities by supporting maintenance/rehabilitation of
infrastructure and support services to the private sector. These projects
also contribute to increased efficiency in the utilization of public
resources by strengthening management capacity in implementing agencies.
The Highway Maintenance II, Port, Water and Electricity Supply, and Urban
Management and Development projects aim at easing physical bottlenecks to
domestic and foreign private irvestment. In the productive sectors, small-
and medium-scale private sector activities are being promoted through the
Enterprise Development Project. In agriculture, these efforts are being
reinforced through improved extension and other support services through
the Second Agricultural Development Project.
122.      The economic constraints facing The Gambia call for a much
larger volume of assistance than can be provided by any individual donor.
Moreover, for external assistance effectively to help Government alleviate
these constraints, continued close coordination among donors is essential.
The Bank continues to play a very active role in this regard. The
following section presents an overview of collaboration with other donors.
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND DONORS
123.      IDA has worked in close partnership with the IMF in supporting
the Gambian Government's structural adjustment efforts. During the first
phase of the ERP, an IMF stand-by and first two annual arrangements under



- 37 -
the SAF were made available. The IMF is continuing its support for the
second phase of the ERP. An ESAF for 120 percent of quota was approved by
the IMF Board in December 1988, and The Gambia remains in good standing
with the IMF. The program supported by the IMF has focused on key
macroeconomic policies, including those related to the exchange rate,
interest rates, credit, and fiscal adjustment. By providing the basis for
a stable macroeconomic environment, the IMF support has contributed to the
success of the structural reforms supported by the Bank. There is thus
strong complementarity between IMF- and Bank-supported programs. Bank
staff have participated routinely in IMF missions, and vice versa. There
are no outstanding issues between the Bank and the IMF regarding the
Government's structural adjustment program.
124.      There has also been close collaboration between IDA and other
donors in their support for the ERP. A substantial proportion of the
required financial support during the first phase of the ERP was provided
jointly by IDA, the ADF, the United Kingdom (ODA), The Netherlands, and the
Saudi Fund. Parallel cofinancing was provided by the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID). During the second phase of the ERP,
this collaboration is expected to continue. The proposed SAL II is
cofinanced by The Netherlands and the African Development Fund, and
parallel support will be forthcoming from ODA and the EEC under the Special
Program of Assistance for Debt-Distressed, Low Income Countries in Sub-
Saharan Africa, and the USAID.   The African Development Bank and the
Government of the Netherlands have participated fully in the preparation
and appraisal of the proposed operation. All missions have conferred
extensively with other interested donors, including the ODA, EEC, and
USAID. Bank staff are also coordinating closely with other members of the
international community to ensure the provision of supporting technical
assistance, including for undertaking the studies needed to prepare the
next steps in the structural adjustment process.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
125.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
126.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Barber Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 12, 1989



ANNEX I
1988  SOCIAL  INDICATOR  DATA  SHEET                        Page 1 of 8
GAMBIA, THE
Reference Growas (mq£)
Most
Qecent                     LOwer ti¶c
M965        1975    Estimate   Low-imcome          mnccome
AREA
Total lano area (thou SQ km)        11.3        11.3        11.3
Agricultural (% of total)           31.9        35.8        22.1
GNP PER CAPITA (current US$)           too         220         220         280         730
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
rotal populAtion (thou)              403         533         797
uroan pop. (  of total.)                          i9          35          28          38
Poculation growtn rate(%):
Total                                          2.9         3.5         1.9         2.5
Uroan                                                      7 .2        5.7         4.2
Life expect. at Otrth (yrs)           34          38          43          61          59
Pculation projections:
PoP, in 2000 (thou)                                      1.142
Stationary poo. (thou)                                  3,143
Poculation density per sQ km
Of agercultural land                 112         132         300         349         404
Pop, age structure (%):
O-14 yrs                            44          45          43          37          42
15-64 yrS                          53          52           55          59          55
as and atove                         3           3           2           4           3
Cruce 01rtn rate (per thou)           50          49          49          30           5
6Cruoe Ca-th rate (per thou)          30          26           22          10          1O
Total fertility rate                 6.5         6.5         6.5         3.9         4.7
tnfant mort. rate (per thou)         199         172         160          72          76
Child death rate (per thou)           53          50          45           9          ii
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)                         2
Users (% of married women)                       i          *.
FO0. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of fooa  production per
cacita (1979-8t a 100)               156         154         136         115         106
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)               2.194       2.108       2.252       2.327       2.507
proteins (grams per cay)            53          54          52          55          SG
Poo, oer physician (tmou)             9*        24.5        11.6         5.8         7.S
Poop  oer nurse (thou)               1.7         2.2                     4.0
Poo, per hospitat cooa (thou)                                 .6         1           1.1
Access to safe wate.'
(% of poPulation).  Total           ..          t2          45
Uroan         *           97         100
Rural                      3          33
Population Growth              Infant Mortclity         Primary School Enrollment
52                          250-20                                                 _
¶ 20.
4                            0
1943S18 1071-4i 1so0            t9        o           tS L0    t9t0 tao  --
1= CAItOIA. tFt                                              ?NC               /
m nms tr eooupr                                    °        e



A\NNEX I
Page 2 of B
1988  SOCIAL  INDICATOR  DATA  SHEET
GAMBIA,  THE
Reference Grcuos (sRE)
Most
Qecent                     cower mic
1965       1975    Eattmate   Low-income         Income
LABOR FaRCE
Total Labor Force (trou)            216         263         312
Female (%                          43          43          41          34          29
Agriculture ('1                    88          85          34          o6          55
Inaustry (%)                        S           6           7          14          16
Participation rate (%)
Total                              52          50          48          47          37
Male                               60          S9          57          e8          51
Female                             43          42          39          35          23
Age dePendency (.)                 38.4        90.7        82.4        71.6        82.2
HOUSING
Average size of nousenola:
Total                              .                       ..          , 
Urban                              ,,           6                                   4
Rural                                           9                      ,*
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                               *                      *S           .
Urtban                                                                 *4
Rural                              ,.
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary:  atal                     21          33          60          99         104
Mlale                    29          44                                  C9110
Female                    12         21                      87          S9
Secondary: Total                               1O          35          34
Male                    S I                                41
Female                  4           5           f          25          3
PUpi l-Teacher ratio:
Primary                            39          26          23          39          31
Secondary                          22          19          17                      23
Pupils reacning gr-os d   (%)                    96          92                      72
INCONE. CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per -ac.
(kg of oil equivalent)                           40          78         327         351
Percentage of private "Icome
received by:
l1ighest 10% of flouser.0las       .
Highest 20%
Lowest 20%
Lowest 40%
Est. aDsolute Poverty .come
level (USS oer cacita):
Urtan
Rural                                          95
Est. pOP. below asoolute
poverty income level (%)
Urtban
Rural                                          40
Passenger cars/thou pop.            3.0         2.8         3.2
Newspaper circulation
(per tmousana peoulation)                                   2.8        32.0       43.5
tECSE August *S6
Not t4GdoCte. Mote Moat mcmi: estimates of noouiehOn and GNP ol csaitas ere far 1967 untcs otrsfiwuS. nated.
GtoUo etwge Am OoguftOi eig1teld. COuniTV co4etCqo deeates oan data evaalaof.tv ando s not uinston Unless otIeftso noted.
t95 rtefr to any "af natw"a2 aond lot 1975 aetwea 1972 ad 12978: end most meant estateme betwef 10 en 198a



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 8
Definitions of Social In.dicators
Despnte recent improvements in international    if she were tobearchildren at each age in accordance
comparability, definitions of social indicators may  with prevailing agi ,pecfic fertility rates.
still vary from country to country or from period to    Infant mortality rate-Number of infants per
penod. These data should be used with caution.   thousand live births, in a given year, who die before
Area                                             reaching one year of age.
Child death -ate--Number of deaths of children, age
Totol-Total surface area in thousands of square  14, per thousand children in the same age group, in
k ilemeters, compnsing land area and inland waters.  a given year.
Agricultural-Estimate of agricultural area used for  Family planning: accepto,s-Annual number of
crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or   acceptors of birth control measures received under
lying fallaw, as a percentage of total area.    the auspices of a national family planning program.
Gnp per Capita                                   Family planning: useas-Percentage of married
women of childbearing age who are practicing, or
GN1'percapita estimates forl987atcurrentmarket   whose husbands are practicing, any form  of
pnces in US dollars, calculated by the conversion  contraception. Childbearing age is generally 15 to
.nethod used for the World Bank Atlas. Because they  49, although forsomecountnescontraceptive usage
are not rounded, these figures differ marginally    is measured for other age groups.
from &hose in othe; Bank publications.           Food, Health and Nutrition
Population and Vital Statistics                 Index of food production per capita -Index of per
Total population-World Bank estimates for 1987.  capita annual production of all food commodities.
Urban   population-Countries   use  different    Production excludes animal feed and seed for
aefininons of urban population, which may affect  agriculture. Food commodities include primary
cor. parability.                                 commodities that are edible and contain nutnents
P.°pulation  growth  rate-Annual  least-squares  (for example, tea and coffee are excluded). They
growth rates estimated mid-year for total and urban  include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals, vegetables, oil
populations, 1965-75, and 1975-87.               seeds, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
Life epectancyat birth-Number of years a newborn  livestock products. Aggregate production of each
infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality  country is based on national average producer price
at the time of its birth were to stay the same   weights.
throughout its life.                             Per capita supplyofcalorie-Computed from energy
Population in 2000-Projected on the basis of total  equivalent of net food supplies available in a
population, age and sex distribution, fertility,  country, per capita, per day. Available supplies
migration, and mortality rates in the base year 1980.  comprise domestic production, imports less
Stationary population-Projected population level  exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies exdude
when zero population growth is achieved: ie., the  animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, and food
birth rate is constant and is equal to the death rate,    lost in processing and distribution.
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is  Per capita supply of protein-Protein content of per
zero.                                            capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of
Population density,agriculturm land-Population per  food is defined as above. Requirements for all
square kilometer (100 hecares) of agricultural area.    countries, established by United States Department
Population age structur -Children 0-14 years,    of Agricuture, provide for minimum allowances of
working-age group 15-64 years, and people of 65  60 grams of total protein per day and 20 gramns of
years and over as pereentages of population.     animal or pulse protein.
Crude birth rate-Annual live birts per thousand  Poputn per physician-Population divided by the
popuWtion.                                       number of practicing physici>. .s (,.lified from a
Crude death rate-Annual deaths per thousand      university level at medical school. tote that the
population.                                      definition of recognzed medical practitioners
Total fertility rate-Average number of children that  differs among countries.
wouldbebornalivetoawomanduringherlifetime,       Population per nursing person-Population divided
by the number of practicing graduate nurses,



- 42 -
ANNEX I
.-age 4 of 8
assistant nurses, practical nurses, and nursing     grOups. For some  countries  with  universal
auxiliaries.                                        education, gross enrollment will exceed 100 percent
Population per hospital bed-Population divided by  if some pupils are younger or older than the
the number of hospital beds available in public and  countr,/s own standard prnmarv school age.
private, general and specialized hospitals, and     Secondary school enrollment-Computed in the same
rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  manner as primary enrollment ratio; the age group
permanently staffed by at least one physician.     again varies but is usually 12-17. The ratio is ror
Access to safe water-Percentage of people with      general secondary school enrollment and excludes
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes    pupils in vocational or teacher trainirg secondary
treated  surface  waters  or  untreated  but        schools.. The figures shown are different trom those
uncontaminated water such as that from springs,     published in earlier reports, which included pupils
sanitary wells, and protected boreholes). In an    enrolled in more specialized secondarv educ.anon.
urban area this may be a public fountain or         Pupil-teacher ratio-Total number of students
standpost located not more than 200 meters away.   enrolled in school divided by the total number ot
In rural areas it implies that members of the       teachers.
household do not have to spend a disproportionate   Percentage  'f pupils  rea,4zr.g  gra"de  ,;x-he
part of the day fetching water. The definition of  percentage ot children starting primary sche.ol and
"safe" has changed over time.                      continuing until grade six; based on enrollment
Labor Force                                        records. The end-of-vear data are affected bv
repeaters and re-entrants trving to obtain school
Total labor force-The  "economically  active,"    leaving and qualification certificates.
population   including   armed   forces   and
unemployed   but   excluding   homemakers,
caregivers, and students.                           Energy  consumption-Annual  consurnp...p..nvn  of
.Female-Female labor force as a percentage of total  commercial  primarv  energv   coai,  flente,
labor force.                                        petroleum, natural gas, and hydro,   c!ear, and
Agriculture-Labor force in  farming, forestry,      geothermnal electricity)  in  kiiogram., of oil
hunting, and fishing as a percentage of total labor  equivalent per capita.
force.                                             Income distribution-Income (both in cash and kind)
Participation mt-Percentage of population of all    accruing to percentile groups of households ranked
ages in the labor force, based on ILO data on the   by total household income. In some cases statistics
age-sex structure of the population.                obtained from other agencies are revised by Bank
Age deendency ratio-Ratio of population under 15    staff.
and 65 and over, to the working-age population (age  Passenger cars-Private motor cars seating seven
15-64).                                            people or less, per thousand population.
Housing                                            Newspaer circulation-Average circulation of a
"daily, general interest newspaper," defined as a
Avege size of hosehold-A household consists of a    news periodical published at least four times a
group of individuals who share living quarters and  week.
mainnvalis.                                         Estimated absolute poverty income level -The level
Percentage of dwelins with gectriwty-Conventional   below which a minirmal nutntionally adequate diet
dwellings with electricty in living quarters, as a  plus essential nonfood  requirements are not
percentage of all dwellings.                        affordable. These estimates are based on special
Education                                           surveys that, in most cases, are now almost 10 years
old.
Primavy scho  enrollment-Gross enUolhment of all    Estimated population below absolute poverty income
ages at primary level as a percentage of school-age  level-Percentage of urban and nral populations who
children as defined by each country and reported to  live in "absolute poverty," mostly based on the surveys
Unesco. Although manycountriesconsider primary      mentioned above.
school age to be 6-11 years, others use different age



- 43 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
Table 1: Key Indicators
(In percentag , except es noted)
Actual      Est.                     Protcted
loss/se 198/87 1977/88  1988/69 1999/96 1996/o1 1991/92 TO/M8
GDP growth rate                 -o.a    5.4    5.6    4.8    3.9    8.9    8.9    8.9
GDP/capita growth rate          -3.4    2.1    2.2    1.1    1.0    i.e         1.9    1.0
Consumption/capita growth rate    -       -      1.5   -8.2      -      0.7    1.0    1.0
Debt Service (US$ million) 1/   18.4   70.8   88.2   45.2   43.7   25.9   29.5   29.1
Debt Service/XGNFS 2/           24.9   168.6   49.2   54.9   49.7   27.8   29.0   25.7
Debt Service/GOP                11.2   49.0   22.1   24.9   22.6   12.4   18.2   11.0
Gross Investment/GDP            15.8   20.4   11.9   19.8   18.8    18.6   18.8   19.8
Domestic Savings/GDP             7.7    6.2    j.4   12.8   14.1   14.7   14.6   18.9
Public Investment/GDP           10.8   14.9    3.8   14.1   18.5   18.9   12.9   18.0
Private Investment/GOP           6.2    6.4    5.1    5.2    5.4    6.8    6.9    6.8
Ratio of Public/
Private Investment             2.0    2.8    2.7    2.7    2.5    2.8    2.2    2.1
Government Revenue/GDP          24.2   29.6   26.6   26.6   25.9   24.5
Government Expenditure/GDP      87.2   61.8   48.6   84.8   81.9   89.8
Budget Deficit/GWP 8/           1380   22.0   21.5    8.8    6.9    S.8
Export Growth Rate                       6.8    4.6    6.2    8.6    6.7    7.1    6.6
Exports/GDP                     78.8   71.8   68.6   67.4   67.1   66.9   66.0   6.6
Import Growth Rate                      11.6    0.7    7.7    8.4    6.2    6.2    6.2
Imports/GDP                     87.8   89.8   62.2   82.1   81.6   81.1   69.6   79.9
Current Account Deficit (in US$) 85.4   47.8   41.6   41.0   41.2   49.9   40.2   41.1
Current Account Def;ctt/CDP     29.7   88.9   24.9   22.4   21.1   19.5   18.1   17.2
1/ Including IMF charge and repurchase, and cash payments for arrears reduction.
2/ As percent of export. of local produce, value added on re-exports and travel lncom.
8/ Cash basis, excluding grant.



- 44 -
ANNfX I
Page e of 8
Table 2: Balance of Payments, 1984/85 - 1990/91
(In millions of USt)
Actual              Est.          Projected
1984/85 198S;88 1988/87 1987/88 1988789 1989/90 1980/91
Exports of Goods A NFS          79.0    87.9   103.8   115.3   122.4   130.8   189.0
Merchandise, f.o.b.             80.9    86.2    70.0    78.9    84.2    89.8    95.7
Non-factor Services             18.1    22.7    33.8    36.4    38.2         40.5    43.3
Imports of goods and NFS       -97.3  -104.3  -129.1  -138.4  -149.0  -158.7   -168.6
Merchandise f.o.b.             -73.4   -81.1   -99.7  -107.6  -115.7  -123.2  -130.7
Non-factor Services            -23.9   -23.2   -29.4   -30.9   -33.8   -85.5    -37.9
Resource Balance               -18.3    -16.4    -25.5   -23.1   -28.8   -28.4   -29.6
Net Factor Income              -20.4   -24.3   -29.8   -26.8   -23.2   -21.7   -20.1
Not Current Transfers/Other      4.6      5.3      7.3      7.3      8.8      8.9      8.8
Current Account Balance        -34.2   -36.4   -47.8   -41.6   -41.0   -41.2   -40.9
Long-Term Capital Inflow        83.8    81.2      80.4    67.4    84.8    64.1    49.0
Direct Investment              0.6      2.2      8.1      2.4      1.4      3.1      8.1
Official Grants               28.0    84.1    39.6    48.8    48.8    41.1    41.9
Net LT loans                   5.1    -5.1       4.3      6.5      0.6      2.9      4.0
Disbursements               12.0      7.3    14.8    16.9       13.8    16.0      15.1
Repayments                  -6.9   -12.3   -10.6   -10.4    -13.2   -13.1   -11.1
World Bank SAL (I and II)      0.0      0.0    30.6       2.2    14.5    17.0        6.0
Total Other Items (net)         -5.0    -8.8       0.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Overall Balance                 -5.6   -12.8    33.3    15.8        23.8    22.9       8.1
Financing                        5.8     12.8   -83.3   -16.8   -23.8   -22.9    -8.1
Ores. Official Reserves          3.5      0.4   -11.5   -12.7   -16.2   -16.8   -18.4
Repurchases from IMF            -4.2   -10.0    -7.2    -5.6    -4.2    -4.0    -6.2
Change In Arrears                6.8    22.8   -35.4    -9.2   -18.9   -18.9           0.6
Exceptional Financing            0.0      0.0     20.9    11.7    11.0    11.0         8.9
USAID (SOP-support grant)     0.0      0.0      0.0      2.1      2.1      2.1    00
IMF                           0.0      0.0    13.7       9.6      8.9      8.9      8.9
Residual Financing Needs         --       --       --        --      2.6      2.8      7.6
Sources: Data provided by the Gamblan authorities; IMF/Bank staff estimates.



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 8
Table 3: Government Finance, 1985/86-1990/91
(In millions of DWalas at current prices)
Actual                  Projected
1986/88  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91
Revenuo and arnts                      268.6    479.8    494.7    630.2    551.9    565.1
Revenu-                             209.5    818.6    887.9    886.9    422.9   446.6
Grants 1/                            69.1    181.2    156.8    144.8    129.0    119.6
Ex!nditur-e  nd net lendin             284.8    542.0    607.1    607.1    620.2    550.4
Curr nt expend;tur-                  189.1    818.8    432.0    804.2    802.2    816.4
Personnel emoluments, pensions,
and allowances                  (62.9)   (66.1)   (88.6)   (86.0)   (91.8)   (98.2)
Interest due                      (37.7)   (68.4)   (73.4)   (74.8)   (70.0)   (87.9)
Internal                        E15.7]   t26.6    (87.8]   (29.7]   (26.52   (24.83
External                        (22.0( 41.8]   (38.13]   14.1]    48.5]   (48.8]
Other Charges                     (81.9)   (87.9)  (128.2]  (130.0)  (140.4)  (150.2)
Subsidies and transfers           (26.6)   (91.4)  (163.9)   (14.4)    (--)       (--)
Of which:  GPMB                 (12.4]   (83.0]  (180.7]   (13.2]    (--J       I--]
Development expendIture               91.1    161.0    176.1    204.9    220.0    236.1
Net lending                            8.7      68.6     -2.7     -2.0      -2.0     -2.0
Of which:  Managed Fund            (--)    (72.6)   (-2.7)   (-2.0)   (-2.0)   (-2.0)
Unallocated expenditure                0.9      -1.3      1.7                --       --
Change In arrears (decres e -)         -36.0    -14.1      -6.4      --        __       __
Overall surplustdtfictt F)
(Cash basis)
Excluding srants                    -110.3   -237.5   -274.8   -121.2    -97.8   -104.9
including grants                     -S1.2    -7W.:   -117.8   -2.1r    317 I   --1.7
Finencins                               61.2      78.4    117.8    -23.1    -31.7    -14.7
Fore gn (not)                          7.i    2414       73.e    169.6    160.0      717.8
Gross borrowing                   (86.6)  (801.0)  (129.1)  (247.6)  (289.7)  (142.8)
Amortization due                 (-29.5)  (-84.2)  (-4O.4)  (-78.0)  (-79.7)  (-70.8)
Not debt relief                    (--)      (4.8)    (5.1)    (--)      (--)     (-)
Domestic                             44.1   -165.0      44.0   -192.6   -191.7    -806.6
Bankitng system                   (20.4) (-165.0)   (27.4) (-189.1)  (188.2)  (-83.0)
Other                             (23.7)    (--)    (20.1)    ()         (--)     ()
Sinking fund for debt
relief                           (--)     (--)    (-8.6)   (-8.6)   (-8.6)   (-8.5)
Memorandum Items:
Surplus/deficit (-) (cash basis)
(In percent of GDP)
Excluding grants                     -13.0    -22.0    -21.6      -8.3    -4.0       -5.8
Including grants                      -.1       -7.1     -9.2      1.6       1.9      0.8
…------------------------…----------…-----                                   …
1/ Grants are on an estimated basis and correspond to grants In the balance of payments
(less technical assistance grants).
Sources: Data provided by the Gambian authorities; IMF.



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 8
Tablo 4: Public Investment Program, 1987/88 - 1990/91
(In millions 't US$)
Completiol
Total Cost   Execution            Three-Year PIP           Cost*
(in millions)  through                                     after
olaosie US$  1987/88  1986/89  1989/90  1990/91   Tote l 199/91
Agriculture and Natural Resources     478.8  78.7  88.6        6.8      6.8      9.1   22.6    14.7
Jahally & Pacharr Rice Development  123.2  19.0  16.2        1.1      1.8      1.5    8.8      0.0
Forestry Development                 17.4   2.7   0.8        6.1      0.2      1.6    1.8      0.8
Livestock Oevelopment                74.1  11.4   7.2        1.2      1.4      1.8    4.2      0.0
Research and Development            116.9  17.1   4.8        2.1      2.0      2.4    6.6      8.8
Agricultural Development 1I         128.2  19.7   9.2        2.4      1.7      1.5    5.6      4.9
Other                                26.0   8.8   6.6        a.6      0.6      1.1    1.1      2.7
Public Utilities                      899.8  55.6  18.8        8.1      4.2      6.o   18.8    22.9
Improvement of Transmission and
Distribution                       88.1   6.8   2.8        1.9      0.4      6.7    8.0      6.8
Urban Water/Electricity Supply      169.8  28.1   6.6        1.6      1.6      8.1    6.1    20.0
Rural Water Supply                   48.4   7.1   1.8        0.9      1.1      1.2    8.2       2.8
Banjul Sewerage and Drainage        108.8  18.7  12.7        1.8      1.2      1.0    4.0      0.0
Transport and Communications          458.6  70.6  87.6        6.4    10.1       8.S   24.1      8.6
Banjul-Sorrekunda Highway            66.7   9.8   7.8        1.6      1.9      6.0    2.6      6.o
Highway iainconance Ir               92.7  14.8   5.8        1.1      2.4      2.5    6.6      8.6
Banjul-Barra Ferry Rehabilitation    14.7   2.8   1.8        0.6      0.0      6.6    0.6      6.6
Banjul Streete Rehabilitation         8.7   1.8   0.1        0.8      0.9      6.0    1.2      6.6
Feder Roads                          17.4   2.7   6.7        0.4      0.5      0.9    1.6      0.2
Tolecommunictions                  104.4  16.1   9.9        1.5      6.0      1.2    2.7      8.5
Banjul Port Development              83.4  12.8  10.1        6.7      2.0      6.6    2.7      o.o
Trans-Gambia Ferry                   10.0   1.5   6.0        0.0      6.6      6.6    0.6      0.9
Yundum Airport Phas  IV              26.1   4.0   O6.        0.2      1.5      1.5    8.2      6.8
Other                                40.4   8.2   2.1        0.7      0.9      1.8    8.4      0.7
Education                              97.5  15.0   6.8        2.6      2.2      2.8    7.0      7.7
Health                                186.4  24.7   0.9        2.8      4.2      4.8   11.8    12.5
Hospitals and Specialized Units      26.2   8.9   6.6        0.8      0.8      1.6    2.6      0.7
National Health Development         135.2  26.8   0.8        1.6      8.4      8.6    8.7    11.8
Housins and Community Develoment      168.8  15.9   5.2        4.0      2.7      2.8     9.0     1.7
Tourism, Trade, and Finance            74.0  11.4   o.6        0.9      1.8      1.6    8.8      7.6
General Public Services                75.8  11.7   2.6        2.8      2.8      1.6    6.8      2.8
TOTAL                                1809.2  278.4   99.6    81.8      88.9 s   8.2   106.8    78.6
Sources: Data provided by the Gambian authorities; Bank staff estimatet.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(as of March 31, 1989)
USS million
(net of cancellations)
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower             Purpose          IDA 11   Undisbursed 21
Eight credits fully disbursed                          43.99
1187-GM   1981  The Gambia      Energy Project          1.50        0.07
1266-GM   1982  The Gambia      Second Banjul Port
Project                6.50         1.15
1443-GM   1984  The Gambia      Urban Management &
Development           11.50         5.84
1476-GM   1984  The Gambia      Second Agricultural
Development            9.40         6.41
1682-GM   1986  The Gambia      Second Highway
Maintenance             5.80        3.76
1724-GM   1986  The Gambia      Water Supply &
Electricity             7.00        7.71
1760-GM   1987  The Gambia      National Health
Development            5.60         4.74
1975-GM   1988  The Gambia      Enterprise
Development           10.00         9.43
Total                101.29        39.11
of which has
been repaid          0.83
Total now held
by IDA 3/            100.46
1/ IDA Credit amounts of SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, valued at the SDRIUS dollar exchange rate approved by
the Board of Directors.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are valued at the SDR/US
dollar exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1989.
31 Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of March 31, 1989)
US$ million
Fiscal Year           Obligor     Type of Business   Loan  Equity  Total
1983        Kombo Beach Hotel          Tourism         2.9    -       2.9
Total Gross Commitments                    2.9    -      2.9
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayment
and Sales
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                              2.9    -       2.9
Undisbursed Balance                        0.0    -       0.0



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THE GAMBIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Identifications                       September 1987
(b) Preparation Mission:                  January/February 1988
(c) Appraisal Mission:                    September 1988
(d) Completion of Negotiations:          April 1989
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness:        June/July 1989
SECTION II: SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTION
Prior to April 30, 1990, or other agreed date, the Bank will review
the Government's progress in implementing the structural adjustment
program.
SECTION III:  SPECIAL CONDITIONS
Credit effectiveness (first tranche release) would be contingent on
review and agreement with IDA on the 1989/90 budgets and 1989/90-
1991/1992 public investment program (para. 111).
Disbursement of the second tranche of US$17 million (US$11.5 million
from the IDA credit, US$2.5 million The Netherlands contribution, and
US$3 million African Development Fund) would be contingent on: (i) a
satisfactory performance review of soundness of overall management of
the economy and progress toward the major objectives of the
structural adjustment program, namely, to create conditions to
promote growth through the private sector, while restructuring the
public sector to enhance its efficiency; and (ii) implementation of
specific actions essential for achieving the objectives of the
structural adjustment program.
Satisfactory Performance Review. In line with the main components of
the adjustment program, the satisfactory performance review will
include an assessment of progress on Government's part to: (i)
achieve significant reductions in the fiscal deficit while improving
efficiency in the provision of public services; (ii) prepare and
implement the initial steps of a medium-term strategy to raise
efficiency in the groundnut processing and marketing system,
including an action program to promote GPMB's and GCU's operations
along commercial lines and within a competitive environment; (iii)
implement the administrative reform program; (iv) achieve further
financial and efficiency gains in the operations of the GPMB, the GUC
and the GPA under performance contracts with these enterprises;



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v) implement the public enterprise divestiture program; and (vi)
achieve the physical targets for the infrastructure rehabilitation
program agreed with IDA.
Specific Actions. In addition to a satisfactory performance review,
the following actions should be taken prior to release of the second
tranche of the credit:
(a) completion of expenditure programs for the ministries of
Agriculture, Works and Communications, Health, and
Education (para. 54);
(b) as of the 1989190 groundnut trade season, elimination of
subsidies to GPMB's groundnut operations, allowing the GPMB
flexibility in determining its own purchase price of
groundnuts in line with world and domestic market
conditions at time of procurement and GPMB's own cost
structure, and the adoption of measures to ensure the
financial viability of the GCU (paras. 63 and 69-70);
(c) completion of the restructuring of the Ministry of
Agriculture, including privatization of its commercial and
production activities (para. 74); and
(d) signature of satisfactory performance contracts with
GAMTEL, SSHFC, and GPTC; and achievement of agreed
benchmarks in the restructuring program for the GCDB
(paras. 79-84).



_ 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 17
GOVERNMENT OF THE GAMBIA
GOVERNMENT STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
I. INTRODUCTION
1.      Since 1985, the Government of The Gambia has been implementing an
Economic Recovery Programme (ERP). The Programme was developed in response to
the economic deterioration and worsening financial imbalances of the early
1980s. Designed with the objectives of reversing the economic decline and
setting the country on a sustainable long-term growth path, the ERP involved
actions in the following areas:
(a) exchange rate reform;
(b) external debt management;
(c) promotion of agriculture;
ad) promotion of other productive sectors;
(e) Civil Service and public enterprise reform;
(f) reform of fiscal and monetary policy; and
(g) reorientation of the Public Investment Programme.
2.      During the first phase of the ERP, which covered the period 1985186-
1987!88, the emphasis was on stabilization through greater reliance on market
forces throughout the economy and through the selective disengagement of
Government from areas that would be more effectively managed by the private
sector. As part of the stabilization effort, Government sought to improve
incentives for private productive activity, thus laying the foundation for the
medium-term growth and diversification of the economy. A cornerstone of the
program was exchange rate reform. Government floated the exchange rate in
January 1986 with the introduction of an interbank market, and tightened
fiscal and monetary policies. Interest rates are now determined by market
force.; and are positive in real terms. Other important aspects of the first
phase of the ERP included an initial restructuring of the financial sector and
stimulation of other productive sectors, notably agriculture. As for
Government's selective disengagement from certain areas within the public
sector, Government pursued a public enterprise divestiture programme,
implemented a civil service retrenchment programme, and rationalized its
public expenditure programme.
3.      Overall, the financial and economic results achieved so far provide
convincing evidence that the major policy changes introduced during the first
phase of the ERP have been effective. The balance of payments and budget
deficits have declined, and in both 1986/87 and 1987/88 economic growth has
resulted in modest increases in per capita GDP. Real GDP expanded by over 5
percent in each of the last two years. Because of a fall in the world market
price of groundnuts during 1986 and the need to increase imports for
rehabilitation and maintenance of investments, there was an initial widening
of the current account deficit of the balance of payments from about 30
percent of GDP in 1985/86 to 33 percent in 1986187. Subsequent actions have
reduced the deficit to 24 percent of GDP in 1987/88. The budget deficit



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 17
(excluding grants) has been reduced from 13 percent in 1985/86 to an estimated
8 percent in 1988189. (During 1986/87-1987/88 the fiscal deficit rose
temporarily to about 22 percent of GDP, as Government subsidized the Gambia
Produce Marketing Board's (GPMB) groundnut operations and, as part of the
public enterprise sector restructuring programme, repaid debts of the Gambia
Utilities Corporation (GUC) which it had assumed.) Financial stabilization
efforts have reflected in a slowdown of the rate of inflation from 70 percent
in 1985186 to 22 percent in 1986/87 and to 9 percent in 1987/88. As a result
of economic stabilization, a climate more conducive to the longer-term growth
of the economy through the private sector has emerged.
4.      Since 1986, Government has received financial support from the IMF
under a stand-by and the first two years of a three-year Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAF) programme. The IMF board approved recently an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) programme based on a Policy Framework
Paper prepared jointly by Government and the staffs of the IMF and the World
Bank. The Gambia has, except for minor technical exceptions, met all
performance criteria and benchmarks under IMF programmes. The financial
support of the World Bank under a First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL I),
together with associated cofinancing from the Special Facility for Africa, the
African Development Fund, the Saudi Fund, Special Joint Financing from the
United Kingdom and a grant from The Netherlands, enabled financing gaps to be
filled on concessional terms during the first phase of the ERP. A Paris Club
rescheduling was obtained in September 1986 and a London Club rescheduling was
obtained in January 1988. This support, together with the improvement in
economic conditions, has enabled The Gambia to meet its non-rescheduled
external debt obligations regularly and to achieve a modest reduction in
external arrears.
II. OBJECTIVES AND ADJUSTMENT POLICIES, 1988/89-1990/91
5.      These achievements have provided a solid foundation for the design of
the Government's future economic policies. For the next phase of the ERP,
through mid-1991, the basic objectives and main details of the approach that
has worked well for The Gambia in the past will be maintained. These
objectives are reflected in the macroeconomic targets and policies set out
below. Government recognises that continuity of commitment to the goals of
the ERP is essential. However, primary emphasis of the ERP will shift from
stabilization to improved efficiencies and the generation of growth within the
economy. This shift will require careful monitoring and consolidation of key
policies and the introduction of additional measures in order to sustain the
momentum of the structural adjustment effort.



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 17
A. Macroeconomic Targets and Policies
6.      The Government's quantitative macroeconomic targets for the second
phase of the ERP aret
(a) to achieve an annual real growth of GDP of about 4 percent over the
period 1988/89 to 1990/91, with contributions to expanded output deriving
mainly from agriculture, fisheries, and tourism;
(b) to eliminate external payments arrears by 1989/90; and
(c) by the end of the period, to reduce the rate of inflation to 6 percent,
the fiscal deficit to about 5.8 percent of GDP, and the external current
account deficit to 19.5 percent of GDP; and to build up gross official foreign
exchange reserves to the equivalent of 6 months of imports.
7.      To achieve these targets, the Government will strengthen its efforts
to promote a macroeconomic policy environment conducive to the development of
the private sector, particularly in agriculture, while continuing its policies
aimed at economic stabilization. A major policy instrument will continue to
be exchange rate policy.  The flexible interbank foreign exchange market
system has functioned smoothly, and the exchange rate has moved narrowly
between D8.6 and D9.5 per SDR. The Government will continue to monitor the
evolution of the system to ensure its orderly functioning.
8.      Government attaches great importance to the targets set forth in the
1988/89-1990/91 Policy Framework Paper (PFP) agreed to with the IMF and IDA in
late 1988. To attain those targets, Government will continue its efforts to
reduce the fiscal deficit, through further efforts at generating revenues via
taxation and improved efficiency in tax administration, and continued
expenditure restraint. Government intends to ensure that the new sales tax
introduced in July 1988 will be fully implemented by mid-1989, and believes
that additional resources will be obtained from measures already implemented
to strengthen income tax administration and monitor duty-free privileges.
9.      On the expenditure side, the Government will contain expenditure
increases within its ability to generate additional resources and the need to
achieve its deficit targets. These conditions set the ceiling on increases in
the wage bill that have arisen from the recent regrading of the civil service
and wage adjustments. While meeting its fiscal deficit reduction targets,
Government will make additional efforts to improve the balance among
expenditures on personal emoluments, materials and supplies, and
rehabilitation and maintenance.
10.     Also in keeping with the PFP, Government will continue its tight
credit policy and flexible interest rate policy. Credit policy will be
directed at further reducing domestic absorption. Net credit to Government
will be reduced, reflecting the restrained budgetary stance, and the growth in
credit to the GPMB will be limited. The lending activities of the commercial
banks will continue to be monitored closely in relation to their ceilings.



_ 54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 17
Government will also maintain a trade policy free of quantitative restrictions
and will continue to monitor closely trade developments with a view to
maintaining low average tariffs.
B. External Financing of Adjustment and Debt Management
11.     Donor support has been critical in enabling The Gambia to realize
positive results from the policy changes undertaken so far under the ERP.
However, despite substantial efforts on the part of donors and the
Government's commitment to economic reforms, the full translation of these
reforms into a viable financial and economic situation will take time. To
achieve its future growth targets, reduce the current account deficit of the
balance of payments to a sustainable level, meet external debt payments
objectives, and build up foreign er.change reserves, it will be necessary for
the Government to obtain substantial additional resources, on very
concessional terms, from the international community.
12.     The financing requirements of the next three years (1988/89-1990/91)
of the adjustment programme are estimated at about US$258.6 million. Of this,
US$168.8 million are expected to be disbursed from bilateral and multilateral
project grant and loan commitments, of which US$144.3 million and US$24.5
million, respectively, would be provided from existing and expected
commitments. About US$7.6 million are expected from private capital inflows.
A balance of payments support grant from the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) has already been committed and will provide
quick disbursing financing of US$4.2 million. Further financing of US$26.7
million equivalent (120 percent of quota) is expected from the IMF's Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility, approved in December 1988. An additional
US$31.5 million equivalent would be provided by the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit, including cofinancing from the African Development Bank and
the Government of The Netherlands. Finally, US$7.4 million equivalent would
be provided by the United Kingdom and the European Economic Community under
the Special Programme of Assistance for Debt-Distressed, Low Income Countries
in Sub-Saharan Africa (SPA).
13.     There remains a financing gap in the balance of payments equivalent
to US$12.4 million over 1988/89-1990/91. Government hopes to fill this gap
either by obtaining additional cofinancing pledges through the SPA, or by
seeking rescheduling of its debt with the Paris and London Clubs.
14.     Over the next three years, the Government's objective is to continue
to improve relations with external creditors and to strengthen its debt
servicing capacity. The Government will closely review new external
borrowings, to ensure that these are used for economically justified purposes
and are obtained on appropriately concessional terms. In this connection, no
external borrowing for projects and programmes not in the agreed Public
Investment Programme (PIP) will be permitted, and the moratorium on government
loan guarantees for public and private borrowers, except as agreed with IDA,
will be maintained. No borrowing will be undertaken on non-concessional terms



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 17
in the 1-12 years' maturity range or at other than highly concessional terms.
Strict limits have been placed on public sector short-term debt outstanding.
Grant financing will be maximized.
15.     The remainder of this letter sets forth specific programmes for
putbic resource management, agricultural policies and institutions, public
sector management, and supporting actions: economic diversification and
infrastructure.
III. PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
16.     During the first phase of the ERP, Government undertook many measures
to ensure the improved utilization and management of public sector resources.
For the next phase of the adjustment programme, the following measures will be
undertaken to achieve further fiscal adjustment and greater efficiency in the
role of the Government in the economy.
A. Domestic Resource Mobilization
17.     To improve fiscal performance, many expenditure-related actions have
been taken; costs have been reduced, especially the subsidies provided to
public enterprises; and the tax system has been substantially reformed and
overall tax administration has been improved. Since the ratio of taxes to GDP
is now relatively high, the focus of domestic resource mobilization in the
next few years will be on the consolidation of measures already adopted
through improved monitoring.
(1) Actions Taken During Phase I
(a) In the 1986/87 budget, which was the first budget after the exchange rate
reform of January 1986, the Government raised the general import tax; and
increased import duties on petroleum products, rice, and tobacco products.
(b) In February 1988, The Government revised the Income Tax Act in order to
achieve greater efficiency as well as equity.
(c) Government strengthened the Central Revenue Division and the Customs and
Excise Administration.
(d) In April 1988, the Government enacted the new Sales Tax Act.
(2) Actions During Phase II
(a) In July 1988, the Government adopted the new sales tax at the importer
level. By end-June 1989, it will complete implementation and extend coverage
to telecommunications, air transport, insurance, hotels, nightclubs, cinemas,
and casinos.
(b) Tax administration is being strengthened further in order to minimize
revenue leakages from the misclassification of imports as duty-free items.



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 17
(c) By June 1989, the Government will complete assessment reports of the
impact of the revised income tax, the new sales tax, and strengthened tax
administration on fiscal revenue and on the achievement of the efficiency and
equity objectives of these measures. It will subsequently take the necessary
steps, if any, to ensure that these objectives are achieved.
B. Public Expenditure
18.     To achieve economies and improve efficiency in the allocation of
public expenditure, including both recurrent outlays and investment, the
following measures have already been taken:
(1) Actions Taken During Phase I
(a) During 1986, Government retrenched 24 percent of public sector personnel.
(b) Since 1986, an embargo has been in force on the creation of net new
government posts, restrictions have been imposed on the filling of vacancies,
and the earlier practice of transferring funds voted for unfilled vacant posts
to non-voted expenditure has been halted.
(c) Allocations were reoriented in the 1986/87 and 1987/88 budgets away from
personal emoluments and into materials, supplies, rehabilitation and
maintenance, to increase efficiency in the provision of public services.
Personnel expenditure declined in real terms by 14 percent in 1986/87 and an
additional 8 percent in 1987188, while other recurrent expenditure (excluding
subsidies and transfers, and debt service) increased on average by about 20
percent in real terms over the same two-year period.
(d) The Government adopted the following criteria for all public investments:
ti) completion of adequate economic feasibility studies; tii) an economic rate
of return (where calculable) of at least 15 percent, and for projects in the
social sectors, where the economic rate of return is not calculable, projects
must be least-cost alternative to achieve project objectives; and (iii)
compatibility of the recurrent cost implications with future recurrent
budgets. Among projects that meet these criteria, the Government assigned
priority to those with the potential to generate or save foreign exchange; to
those that support rehabilitation and maintenance of existing assets, rather
than expansion or creation of new assets; and to projects in support of long-
term human resource development. The public sector has not engaged in
investments in productive sectors which might be of potential interest to the
private sector. Government adopted a PIP that includes only projects which
respect these efficiency criteria and priorities.
19.     Future public expenditure will be consistent with the above criteria
and priorities. Priority for new investments to be included in the PIP will
continue to be given to the rehabilitation of infrastructure and the
development of support services for the promotion of private sector activity.
Proposed new investments will be reviewed with IDA, and only those agreed will



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 17
be implemented. The Government also intends to improve further its investment
programming and monitoring capability.
(2) Actions During Phase II
(a) One of the first public expenditure policy measures of the second phase
of the ERP was the implementation of a new Civil Service grade structure in
November 1988, retroactive to January 1, 1988, designed to eliminate
imbalances between work performed and rewards so as to improve productivity in
the Civil Service. This was followed by a general wage and salary increase
(effective January 1, 1989) for established posts of about 55 percent. to
compensate in part for the erosion in real wages and salaries resulting from
the more than doubling of the cost of living since 1984/85. Wages of
temporary workers and benefits such as special allowances were not increased.
The total increase in personal emoluments was kept to 13 percent in real terms
relative to 1987/88. Following the recent wage adjustments, the Government
intends to maintain the share of personal emoluments in the recurrent budget
at no more than 30 percent in 1988189-1990/91 (compared to a share of 16
percent in 1987/88).
(b) In the 1989/90 recurrent budget, the Government will give priority in the
allocation of resources to materials, supplies, rehabilitation and
maintenance.  Despite recent increases, these allocations remain inadequate.
Accordingly, the share of these expenditures in the recurrent budget will be
increased. The Government will also increase the share of education and
health. The additional allocation to the Ministry of Education will give
priority to primary education, in line with the Government's recently approved
education policy reforms. The share of expenditures on primary education in
the Ministry of Education's recurrent budget will increase. This increase in
expenditure will allow recruitment of additional teachers for expanding the
system, and greater availability of materials and supplies for quality
improvements. The additional allocation to the health sector will focus on
expansion and quality improvements in the provision of family planning
services.
(c) The above measures will contribute to improved efficiency and alleviation
of human resource constraints. They will not hinder the achievement of the
Government's objective to achieve further fiscal adjustment, as uneconomic
subsidies will be eliminated and the Government will make additional resource
mobilization efforts. Moreover, to establish a framework for achievement of
these objectives on a sustained basis, Government is aware that it is
necessary to have a comprehensive view of the medium-term expenditure needs in
all sectors, in particular in priority sectors. To this end it will complete,
by end-January 1990, a three-year assessment of the recurrent expenditure
required to improve efficiency of programs and completed and ongoing projects
of the ministries of Education, Health, Works and Communications, and
Agriculture. On the basis of these assessments, the Government will prepare a
consolidated three-year public expenditure programme for the four ministries
which will be updated and rolled forward every year. First-year requirements



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 17
will guide the allocation of resources in the 1990/91 budgets. Subsequently,
the Government will take the same steps regarding other ministries.
Government will complete the entire public expenditure program by 1991/92.
(d) The 1988/89-1990191 PIP was prepared during the initial stages of the
second phase of the ERP. The Government has already decided not to proceed
with two projects, namely, a Fisheries project and a Ranching Development
project, which are considered more suitable for private sector investment.
(e) The draft 1989/90 budgets and the PIP 1989190-1991/92 will be reviewed
with IDA in May/June 1989. The PIP in future will include all grant- and
loan-financed projects which Government and public enterprises are partly or
wholly implementing. Only projects that respect the efficiency criteria and
priorities adopted under the ERP (see para. 18 (d)) will be implemented.
(f) To strengthen monitoring and expedite implementation of the PIP, a system
of quarterly reviews of status of project implementation is being introduced,
and an initial status report has been completed. Its findings will be
reflected in the 1989/90-1991/92 PIP and the 1989190 development budget.
Subsequently quarterly reports will be undertaken and reviewed with IDA, and
will reflect tho impact on project implementation of remedial actions adopted
by the Government following earlier reviaws.
IV. AGRICULTURAL POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS
20.     Agriculture (including livestock) continues to make a major
contribution to the Gambian economy. Over the last decade it has generated
approximately 30 percent of GDP and 95 percent of exports of domestic origin.
Because the majority of Gambians are employed in the sector, its future growth
will be a vital component of any strategy to improve national welfare. As
noted in the Introduction, the ERP has given high priority to revitalizing a
sector that had grown less than one percent annually in the previous decade.
Several key objectives, which still remain valid today, were adopted. These
are:
(i)       to increase rainfed production of both food and cash crops;
(ii)      to diversify the crop mix, and improve the integration of
cropping activities with livestock production;
(iii)     to increase foreign exchange earnings from groundnuts and
other crops, especially horticultural products;
(iv)      to maintain and improve soil fertility;
(v)       where possible, to promote economically efficient
irrigation farming; and



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 17
(vi)      to reduce the involvement of the public sector in
activities that can be more efficiently performed by the
private sector.
21.     In pursuit of these objectives, agricultural policy focused on two
major areas over the last two years. Firstly, it sought to establish a
framework within which farmers' choice of crops and purchases of inputs would
reflect economic returns and costs. Secondly, efforts have been made to raise
the efficiency of major institutions which provide services to the
agricultural sector -- the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), the Gambia
Cooperative Union (GCU), the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB),
and the Ministry of Agriculture itself (see para. 30 (f)).
(1) Actions Taken During Phase I
(a) The producer price of groundnuts was brought closer to the world market
price, adjusted for processing, marketing, and transportation costs.
(b) Fertilizer distribution was liberalized. Previously a monopoly of the
GPMB, trade in fertilizers is now open to the private sector.
(c) A system of decentralized seed multiplication was introduced in which
contract farmers are used to produce certified seed.
(d) The retail price of rice was decontrolled, and rice imports were
liberalized.
(e) An action programme for agricultural credit reform was developed and its
implementation has started.
(f)  Extension services are being strengthened under ADP II and the USAID-
financed Gambia Agricultural Research and Diversification Project.
(g) In December 1987, a three-year performance contract was signed with the
GPMB which gave it autonomy in operational matters such as staffing decisions
and salary structures, and established specific revenue and other targets
against which to evaluate performance.
(h) The Agricultural Development Bank was liquidated by repeal of the Act
that established the bank, and an agricultural credit unit has been created
within the Central Bank of The Gambia, with assistance from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP).
22.     Consolidating past agricultural policies is a logical choice for the
future, given the higher levels of output that have occurred since 1985. The
current liberal policies with respect to cereals pricing, marketing and trade
will be continued, and supply policies with respect to seeds, fertilizers and
other inputs will be maintained. During the next phase of the ERP, additional
actions are needed, in particular regarding groundnut pricing policy and
efficiency improvements in groundnut processing and marketing. Government



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 17
currently fixes groundnut producer prices while paying subsidies to the GPMB
to cover the resulting deficits. Its aim has been gradually to reduce
subsidies by bringing the producer price into line with world market prices,
adjusted for processing, marketing, and other costs. Reflecting this policy,
the decline in the world market price since 1986 has resulted in cuts
amounting to 39 percent in the producer price to Dl,100 per tonne. This has
brought to the forefront the risk that reduced prices will lower rural
incomes. Nonetheless, the Government is committed to eliminating subsidies to
the groundnut subsector for two main reasons. First, because of the weight of
this subsector in the economy, subsidizing it places an untenable burden on
the budget. Second, Government recognizes that using subsidies to maintain
incentives to produce groundnuts would deter diversification into more
efficient crops, a major medium-term objective of the ERP.
23.     In order to reconcile Government's objective of not subsidizing the
producer price with the objective of farmers receiving a producer price that
is as attractive as possible, all participants in the marketing and processing
chain have to operate as efficiently as possible. The GPMB is currently the
only legal exporter of groundnuts and groundnut products. It purchases
groundnuts from farmers through Licensed Buying Agents and transports,
processes, and markets groundnuts and their products internationally. Its
overall efficiency is a key element in determining the price that can be paid
to the farmer, particularly if subsidies are to be eliminated. It also has to
take into account the level of supply of domestic output. Moreover, it
currently carries an accumulated financial burden associated with interest
charges on its bank borrowing.  Government has been aware of this problem and
has allowed for these interest costs in its transfers of the last three years.
24.     The Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) provides a wide range of services
to farmers, including the supply of inputs and credit through its member
cooperatives. These cooperatives also serve as licensed buyers of groundnuts
for the GCU on behalf of the GPMB. GCU's operations have been characterized
by poor loan recovery and high intermediation costs. As a result, it has
accumulated a substantial amount of overdue debt with the Gambia Commercial
and Development Bank (GCDB).
25.     The Gambia Commercial and Development Bank has encountered serious
financial difficulties, partly arising from its role as banker to the GCU,
though there have been other unrelated difficulties. An initial financial
restructuring was implemented under the first SAL. A further organizational
reform with a view to strengthening the Bank's management and operational
procedures will be implemented during the second phase of the ERP.
(2) Actions During Phase II
26.     To address the various issues in groundnut processing and marketing,
the Government recently prepared -- and has already implemented some actions
under the second phase of the ERP -- a short-term action plan, pending the
results of studies on the GPMB and the GCU that will propose medium-term
actions. Short- and medium-term actions aim at improving efficiency and



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 17
encouraging private sector activity. The Government's programme is outlined
below.
(a) By June 30, 1989, a study (financed by USAID) to review the feasibility
of promoting further efficiencies in GPMB's operations and to create a
competitive environment in the groundnut subsector will be completed.
Meanwhile, Government will ensure strict adherence by GPMB to annual
performance contract targets to achieve greater efficiency in GPMB's
operations.
(b) Under the second phase of the ERP, the GCU has already implemented some
of the actions envisaged in the short-term action programme. It has withdrawn
from the marketing of crops other than groundnuts and from distribution of
inputs that are commercially non-viable, the number of Cooperative Produce
Marketing Societies was reduced from 86 to 54 during the 1988189 Trade Season
(normally December to March), and the GCU has taken steps to reduce its
internal costs. An assessment of the impact of these actions on the GCU's
performance will be completed by end-July 1989. Also, a study designed to
enhance the financial performance and the efficiency of GCU's operations and
management is underway. The study's recommendations will be reviewed jointly
by the Government and IDA, and an action programme will be implemented as of
the 1989/90 Trade Season.
(c) On the basis of the above studies, the Government will prepare a
comprehensive medium-term strategy, which it will review with IDA, for
improving efficiency in groundnut processing and marketing. The agreed
medium-term strategy will be implemented as of the 1989/90 Trade Season.
(d) As of the 1989/90 Trade Season, Government's subsidies to GPMB will be
eliminated, and the GPMB will be allowed flexibility in determining its own
purchase price of groundnuts taking into account world and domestic market
conditions at time of procurement and its own cost structure.
V. PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
A. Public Administration
27.     Civil Service reform has the difficult tasks of reorienting and
reshaping attitudes and raising morale. The two basic objectives of the
Government's administrative reform programme remain to develop a better-
trained, more professionally-managed and streamlined Civil Service that is
appropriately graded in relation to both Government's agreed role and its
ability to pay; and to restructure and strengthen sectoral ministries in
planning, monitoring, and delivering c..e programmes and social services. The
Government supports these objectives in their own right and as components of
the broader adjustment programme.



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 17
28.     During the first phase of the ERP, Government carried out a number of
actions, detailed below, that set the stage for successful achievement of the
administrative reform objectives. These actions were administratively
difficult and also inirolved short-term costs to those who had to leave the
Civil Service. If there are further cuts over the next two years, these will
be significantly fewer than in the recent past. Moreover, they will be
carefully tied to the objectives and sense of this phase of the administrative
reform programme, which is more concerned with rebuilding and strengthening
the capabilities needed for a strong and sustainable economic recovery.
29.     The main components of the Government's administrative reform
programme over the next several years will be Civil Service reform and
ministry restructuring and strengthening.
(1) Actions Taken During Phase I
Civil Service Reform
(a) During 1986, the Government retrenched 2,625 temporary employees and 764
established government workers (constituting a reduction of about 24 percent
of total government employment), and eliminated 848 vacant positions from the
Establishment roster.
(b) To ease transitional unemployment among retrenched public sector workers,
a Civil Service Resettlement Programme was established under the auspices of
the Indigenous Business Advisory Service (IBAS) and the National Investment
Board (NIB).
(c) A comprehensive Administrative Reform Programme (ARP) was prepared.
Under the ARP, a Personnel Management Office (PMO) was established in December
1987.
Reorganization/Strengthening of Ministries
(a) The President's Office has been reorganized. This has streamlined
reporting relationships and the range of duties performed by office personnel.
(b) A number of studies were conducted to initiate reform of individual
ministries within the Government, and implementation of restructuring
programmes for some ministries were started.
(2) Actions During Phase II
Civil Service Reform
30.     The Civil Service reform will now concentrate on the implementation
of specific programmes and processes developed by the Personnel Management
Office. These key components, outlined below, will help to increase
efficiency, improve morale, reward performance and more effectively utilise



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 17
the country's scarce human and financial resources within the Service. The
steps already taken and those to be taken are as follows:
(a) A consolidated Civil Service pay and grade structure was introduced in
Octc'ier 1988. retroactive to January 1, 1988, and wage increases have been
granted as of January 1, 1989, to established civil servants.
(b) In April 1989, a computerized payroll system was introduced to facilitate
budget preparation, control, and payments. This system is being used as the
basis for a new personnel records system.
(c) By June 1989, Government will introduce a staff inspection programme
covering the whole civil service on a 3-5 year cycle. This experience will
generate recommendations for improving efficiency in work processes and staff
utilization.
(d) A study has been completed and an action programme for strengthening the
Ministry of Education will be prepared by August 1989. Implementation of the
action programme is expected to be completed by end-1990.
(e) Reorganization of the Ministry of Works and Communications has begun and
is expected to be completed by September 1989.
(f) A programme for restructuring the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was begun
in July 1988, and completion is expected by September 1989. The MOA's
restructuring aims at focusing the Ministry's activities on areas where the
private sector is unlikely to have a comparative advantage, such as research
and extension. The restructuring programme envisages the privatisation of the
MOA's commercial and production activities.
(g)  By December 1989, Go7ernment will introduce a performance-based staff
appraisal system for grades 7-12 of the Civil Service; simpler arrangements
for grades 3-6 will be introduced from May 1990.
(h) An action programme has been completed for strengthening the Ministry of
Health. By end-1990 operating financial responsibility for the hospitals will
be fully devolved from the Ministry of Health to the hospitals themselves.
31.     In addition to the above actions, which are expected to have a
measurable impact, a variety of other supporting actions will be undertaken to
provide the appropriate framework and mechanisms for Committees on Training
and Civil Service Reform and the promulgation of a Public Service Act.
B.   Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture
32.     The Government intends to build on experience gained through actions
taken during the first phase of the ERP to strengthen further the performance
of a reduced public enterprise sector, to minimise Government involvement in
commercial ventures, and to encourage private sector initiatives.



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 17
33.     The objective of the second phase of the ERP is to move all public
enterprises toward stronger financial discipline through greater discretionary
control over their pricing pnlicies and exposure te market pressures wherever
possible. They are to operate without direct or indirect subsidies except in
support of explicitly agreed public policy objectives. Implementation of this
concept will be through the extended application of performance contracts.
34.     To assist with the implementation of the performance contracts,
technical assistance will be provided by various donors for key areas of
enterprise operations in order to achieve further gains in productivity, cost
control, and financial effectiveness, including further divestiture of non-
core elements of their operations.
35.     Divestiture of government holdings in entirely commercial ventures
will also be undertaken, utilizing the most appropriate modality in individual
situations: selling shares to partners, offering shares to the public, or
outright sale based on competitive bids.
(1) Actions Taken During Phase I
(a) Three-year performance contracts were signed with the Gambia Utilities
Corporation (GUC), the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), and the Gambia
Port Authority (GPA). These incorporate performance and profit targets,
three-year corporate plans, tariff adjustments, labor audits, proposals for
internal reorganization, and a requirement to prepare detailed quarterly
reports as a means to monitor implementation.
(b) The National Investment Board (NIB) is now represented and active on the
boards of all public enterprises.
(c) Pending the recommendations of a diagnostic study of the Gambia
Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB), initial steps for tLe GCDB's financial
rehabilitation were undertaken. Specifically, a managed fund was established
for all non-performing, government-guaranteed loans.
(d) Discussions and negotiations aimed at divesting Government's holdings in
the hotel industry have enabled Government to complete a lease/sell agreement
for a major hotel.
(e) A revised Investment Code was enacted in early 1988.
(2) Actions During Phase II
36.     The Government intends to expedite the public enterprise reform
programme and anticipates further improvements in public enterprise
performance. A detailed programme of actions for 1988189 to 1990191 covering
public enterprise divestiture has been prepared by the NIB. Moreover,
performance contracts will be negotiated and signed with three more public
enterprises. The speed of implementation will be accelerated, with external



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 17
assistance. During the second phase of the ERP, Government has already
implemented some measures and others are planned.
(a) On the basis of the diagnostic study of the GCDB, the Government has
prepared an action programme to restructure the bank. As part of the
restructuring programme, in November 1988 GCDB's Board of Directors was
replaced, and a new Managing Director is being recruited, with assistance from
the United Kingdom. Following further managerial and operational changes,
including with respect to credit recovery, a report assessing the impact of
such changes will be completed by end-February 1990. Government will decide
on further financial restructuring steps in the light of this report's
conclusions.
(b) Second-year targets under the performance contracts for the GUC, GPA, and
GPMB have been reviewed and agreed with IDA. Third-yeat targets will be
reviewed and agreed with IDA by September 1989 for GUC aid GPA, and bv
February 1990 for GPMB.
(c) By end-December 1989, Government will sign performance contracts with the
Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC), and the Gambia Public
Transport Corporation (GPTC). A performance contract with the Gambia
Telecommunications Company Limited (GAMTEL) will be signed by end-February
1990.
(d) Government has offered for sale its shares in Banjul Breweries, the
African Hotel, Seagull Coldstores, and the National Trading Corporation of The
Gambia.
(e) In March 1989 the Government sold its holdings in the Nyambai sawmill.
(f) In 1988 Government undertook a study of management options for the Gambia
River Transport Company (GRT), Ferry Services, and Dockyard. On the basis of
this study's recommendations Government will, by July 1989, divest its
holdings in the Dockyard and convert the Ferry Services into a mixed company.
Regarding the GRT, Government is currently assessing its rehabilitation
requirements. By August 1989, Government will determine whether the GRT
should be made a department of the GPMB or privatised.
(g) By December 1989, the Government will offer for purchase by the public
all shares of the Gambia National Insurance Company and the Kanifing brick
plant.
(h) By December 1989, the Government will start a study on the Livestock
Marketing Board (LMB) to determine its future role as a public enterprise and
the opportunity for private sector involvement. The Government will seek
donor assistance for NIB to undertake this study.
(i) By December 1989, the Government will privatise the Kotu workshop.



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 17
VI. SUPPORTING ACTIONSs ECONOMIC DIVERSIFICATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE
37.     Sustainable economic growth will require continued efforts to
diversify output and strengthen economic performance. The Government has
identified a number of measures that will lead to the diversification of the
economy. Opportunities exist, for example, in the expansion of agro-
industries, small-scale industries, tourism, and fisheries. Similarly,
infrastructure improvements in such areas as road maintenance, and the
ava4lability of land for industrial and tourism development in an
environmentally sound manner can contribute to easing bottlenecks to more
rapid growth of the directly productive sectors. To take advantage of the
opportunities that exist in these sectors, Government will consolidate earlier
measures and prepare well-focused action plans which it will implement in the
next few years.
(a) Through NIB, Government will aggressively promote several already
appraised projects in agriculture, fisheries, resour^e-based industries, and
tourism among potential foreign investors for joint partnership with Gambian
entrepreneurs.
(b) By July 1989, a tourism development strategy will be finalised
which will include a plan of administrative action to promote the rational use
of the Tourism Development Area, and tourism development in the country's
interior and maximize the net gains to the economy. Special attention will be
given to land allocation and tenure issues, and access to public utilities.
(c) By August 1989, Government will complete a resource management plan and
action programme to ensure that development of the fisheries sector does not
lead to depletion of this resource.
(d) By September 1989, the regulations governing the revised investment code
approved in 1988 will be issued, to provide transparent administrative
procedures for granting investment incentives.
(e) By end-1989, the Government will achieve the physical targets for
completion of the infrastructure rehabilitation programme agreed with IDA.
(f) By December 1989, Government will complete an overall plan of
administrative action and investment promotion for the better economic
utilization of the Kanifing Industrial Estate, including review of land
allocation and tenure, and access to public utilities.
(g) By January 1990, Government will complete a strategy and action programme
for agricultural diversification.
(h) By March 1990, an action programme for improving groundwater management
will be finalised.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 17
(i) By March 1990, Government will complete a comprehensive review of
environmental issues. This will include a medium-term action programme to
improve the country's environment.



-.                              lo w6 3 ~ ~ 6 i
8~ ~ ~~ 3 5 5              *:zi'             i t    ; &
r~~~~~~' I'~ d  II                              I i             S  
i~- '        I         '   . 
-.~~~~~~~ 69  -6



-.  S   -   .E                , 
_-,                  aug. i^            S
i ~     j -   -ag   r
3  st#-                             l
i  2i|  |ii               j[i  . '
$ ~~~i3
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. X
0   ~~- 0. 



Lu; ;S;.LaWw
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
i i,   is I i .               I 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    
-tt 
01 Jo E esva~~~~Ii  ~ 
IL~~~~~~~~~~I



-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-_      _    _    _    _ -_             _    _    _    _    _     _ -* -£                                                                         -  __
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -                        -   -   - - - - - - - -
M                       I         s    v              
-     - -       - -  -     -     -     -     -     -        SF -     -                        
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _    _  _  _    _  _ _    _  _  _    _  _ _    _  _  _ IL
A X r E
w.     |     i~~~~z



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-   -   -   -t -   -   -   -   -   -l -                       -   -   -   -   -    
IL~ ~~~~I
.g                  _ s                'afX        
, lo                       ,     , 
A  ,'i   a E
_ ~    ~~~~~~~~ _
I~~~~ 3-  Ii t
_                                          .~~~~~i
II                     t[I? s- aXtgg 
z  Rt.t|X    |$            
i    i g                              9 'a|RXft     
8 3 f t |    gt | |* | F i 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~ X



t9; ;4;szw~~~~~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-   -   -i-- - -   - -   -  -   -   -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    
Fi Et  IL.z       '    i 
t  I
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     
OT Jo 9 aged
A Xatml
-I   P    - .I



lv; ;Z;.Lww
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - -
If ~  ~    I
~~~  I~~~~~~~. ~ I
i ~   ~     ~      : **ii S;mr   'g                 fXt
~aX  Xitf',,                                       |       itii   1;
it~~~~~~I
-  -          - - - - - - -               - -  - - - - - - -                    3
|   {                 ts       x    sI!        ,-        -  2
iiI~J?                                            Ii |                      I   sIz  
gX g  ~~* S               i                              .,
Ot 3
A                                        a 



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
o I
;i                l
9i | i  j I  '    ' ' .         .
*  S  U~~~~~~~~
'X',,1'1,~~~~~e    1 
01 3° 8 a8r ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~       S
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ XiN
_ 9L _~~~~~~~~



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -      
-    -   -   -n   -   -   -   -   j-   -r   *-   -r   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - -
IL~~~~~I
_  .  *   f  s  eg _  _  n  _  X       -      S  c  w *     . *P         0 
-  -  -,  -  -  -5              -   -  -  -  -  -  - ,- s, -  -  -  -    E, -  -  -  -  -
.    .                  .           ! 
____         -_        _      _     _      _      __        _     _      _      _     _           __s
01  JO  6                                                                             p-d
A X2iNNV
C    ~         ~~~ 3 L~         I.'-. _t



- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   
- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -      
3 i *[                               ltl . 4 
it                                 9-i :  .    j,     
*0 z      
2
e   e    c    ~   .| w  _ |   wtf t   ; 4      g e84.t 
-   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -     ,. -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -                    
91I~~~~~~~~~~~9
S            ,         z      ii- S .4                             ,
3                    ,                                  i
a  '                                      3 a   Z.   | .
y~~~~~~ 5
01 30 o        l 0  ae
A XNNSV
.. .                              -M



MAP SECTION



IBRD11922R3
- .                        Oi _ DACKA      a           \81RKELAi INE ,  ,F\VTbU AR                          I                                                                               RITANIA
-U-   t 2  .  - /       // >                 {                                  i                       -_                                                                 ]4._         <     _ _f   w  oLAtC  r-EtAN  SAKIRINC 
~~~/~ -/                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
rwcMou0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~MAIEME                                                                                                             MNSENEGAL
0                                                                                                      M A M AL I6
KARTUNG~~~~~~~~~~                                               /                 I J4                                                                                                                           - G A M B I A  \
4"..4_wb   ^         ,/                                                        I -- _                                                                                                                             NE, _gKCIDA PAVED ROADS
'A~~~~'
.."    '     A   f    WE'\              r    =  o  5 lo '5                                       20  25 -  --    ---                                             OTHER   PRINC'PL ROADS0
MAKA ~ ~ ~ ~ MA 
7__~~~~~~17                                                  A ,                          l-- ZMk'JN<rlP                                   Xrme 
KombE                                   NRI-WAN   Goy_"(hen1
SARA                        >                       LCI-IOR,.JUnY  



