Dount of
The World Bank
FOR OmaAL USE ONLY
Reprth  12936
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSThENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2032-GM)
APRIL 7, 1994
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Country Operations Division
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorinztion.



Currency Equivalent
The value of the Dalasi is market determined.
The exchange rate is 8.94 to US$ (as of June 30, 1993)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMSCO       African Management Servicca Company
CBG         Central Bank of The Ganbia
CPMS        Cooperative Produce Marketing Societiea
EMCBP       Econofic Mnagement Capacity Building Progrun
ERP         Economic Recovery Program
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjurtmnat Facility
GCDB        Gunbia Commercial and Development Bank
-CU         Gambia Coopeative Union
GEAP        Gambia Environrnent Action Plan
GPMB        Gaunbia Produce Marketing Boad
GPFC        Ganbia Public Trmnpoit Corporation
GAMTrEL   Gunbia Tel_ommunation Compny Limited
GUC         Ganbia Utility Corporation
HIID        Harvard Intitut for International Development
MOA         Miniztiy of Agriculture
MOE         Miniay of Education
MFEA        Ministry of Financ and Economic Affairs
MOH         Ministy of Health
MWC         Ministry of Works nd Comm niations
NIB         National Investment Board
NPP         National Population Policy
PMO         Personnel Management Office
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PAP         Poverty Aleviation Progran
PEP         Public Expenditures Progran
PSD         Program for Sustained Development
PER         Public Enterprise Refornm
PIP         Public Investment Program
PBS         Prognun Budgeting System
SAL I       First Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL 11      Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SSHFC       Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation
SPA         Special Program  of Aaidance
SAP         Structural Adjuatment Facility
SSA         Sub-Saharan Africa
TA          Technical Asistnce
Fiscal Y1 ea
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Program Completion Report on The Gambia
Second Structural Adjustment Credit
(Cr. 2032-GM)
Attached is the Program Completion Report (PCR) on The Gambia - Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2032-GM) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II, prepared by the
Borrower, is in general agreement with Part I.
SAL II supported the second phase of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), a far-reaching
program of structural reforms launched by the Government in 1985. The Credit was supplemented by
cofinancing from the African Development Bank and the Governments of Netherlands, Norway and
Switzerland; and the IMF provided support through its Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility.
The general objective of the program was to continue sound macroeconomic management and
to deepen the reforms started under the first phase (supported by SAL I), to achieve increased growth
and efficiency. The program included measures to strengthen the public finances, improve public
resource management, promote efficiency in processing and marketing of agricultural produce, and
improve public sector management. On balance, the implementation of the reform program was
satisfactory.   The impact on macroeconomic stability and growth was positive, but institutional
weaknesses persist.
The credit of SDR 17.9 million was fully disbursed in 1992. The release of the second tranche
was delayed for eighteen months due to wavering political commitment to the reforms in late 1989. The
overall outcome of the operation is rated as satisfactory, and sustainability as likely. The institutional
development impact is rated as modest.
The PCR is satisfactory. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thir offui duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizstion.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of The Gambia
Credit 2032-GM  - Second Structural Adjustment Program
Table of Contents
PREFACE  .....................................................
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  ...........................................    iii
PART I. PROGRAM  REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...............    1
1. Project Identity ...........                         ;                               I
2. Introduction ...........   1
3.  Background and the Adjustment Experience under SAL I ....              .........    2
4.  Identification and Design of SAL II  ..........................    4
5.  SAL I Achievements ...................................                              4
A. Macro-Economic and Financial Performance .................    4
B. Public Resource Management ..........................    5
C. Agricultural Policies and Institutions ......................   10
D. Public Sector Management ............................   11
E. Supporting Actions: Economic Divestiture
and Infrastructure  ..............................   15
F. Social Impact ....................................   17
6.  Second Tranche Release  .................................    17
7.  Credit Monitoring and Administration .........................   18
8.  Conclusions and Lessons of SAL II  ..........................   19
PART  II. PROGRAM  REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                         ....   25
PART III. CREDIT DATA AND ANNEX ............................   32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefformance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROGRAM COMPLEONRER
Republic of The Gambia
Credit 2032-GM - Second Structural Adjustment Program
PREFACE
1.    This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Structural Adjustment
Program in The Gambia for which Cr. 2032-GM in the amount of SDR 17.9 million was
approved in June 1989 and became effective in August 1989. The Credit Closing Date, originally
June 30, 1991, was postponed once until June 30, 1992.
2.    The Gambia Country Team of the Country Operations Division of the Sahelian
Department (AF5CO) prepared Parts I and II and the Borrower prepared Part II of the PCR.
Part I is fully transcribed as submitted by the Borrower in August 1993. Government comments
have been either incorporated or, where different perceptions remain, footnoted in Part I.
3.    This report is based, inter alia, on the Report and Recommendation of the President to
the Executive Directors, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, policy dialogue with the Borrower, correspondence with the
IMF and other concerned donors, and internal Bank memoranda.






iii
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of The Gambia
Credit 2032-GM - Second Structural Adjustmnent Program
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
i.    The Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II) to the Republic of The Gambia in the
amount of SDR17.9 million (US$23.0 million equivalent) was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 8, 1989. The credit became effective on August 11, 1989 and was released in
two equal tranches, the second of which was delayed for 18 months. The Credit was
supplemented by cofinancing from the African Development Bank and the governments of The
Netherlands, Norway, and Switzerland.  The IMF provided support through a three-year
arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) during 1988/89-1990/91.
Progrm Objectives
ii.    The Credit supported the second phase of the Government's Economic Recovery Program
(ERP), an ambitious and far-reaching program of structural reforms. It was designed to continue
and deepen the reforms started under the first phase of the ERP which were supported by the
First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL I).
iii.   The broad objectives of SAL II were to continue sound macro-economic management
and to deepen structural reforms with a view to improving economic growth, efficiency, and
equity. The main reforms supported by SAL II covered the following major areas:
Macro-Economic and Financial Performance: the aim was to attain macro-economic
stability and boost economic growth by improving public finance, the external position
and economic diversification.
Public Resource Management: the aim was to reduce the fiscal deficit further and to
establish an appropriate level and balance between recurrent and investment expenditures,
with priority on the social sectors;
Agricultural Policies and Instiutions: the aim was to align producer prices with world
market prices, eliminate subsidies to the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), and
promote efficiency in processing and marketing; and
Public Sector Management: the aim was to improve the efficiency of the public sector
through civil service and public enterprise reforms.



iv
SAL  ,Re
iv.    The Government implemented the program with vigor during its first year, keeping the
momentum achieved under SAL I and results were satisfactory. Implementation, however, began
to weaken in late 1989 as a result of wavering commitment of the country's political leadership.
The Government failed to take most of the structural measures required for second tranche release
(originally scheduled for June 1990), but it met the overall macro-economic performance criteria
stipulated in the IMF program. Essentially, the budget deficit reduction targets were achieved,
without any significant restructuring of the composition of expenditures. This led to a difference
in appreciation between the Bank and the IMF on the strength of The Gambia's performance,
which complicated policy discussions.
v.     An intensive policy dialogue, in which the donor community supported and facilitated the
Bank's efforts, was necessary to achieve the structural measures conditioning the release of the
second tranche (reform of the groundnut sub-sector, completion of public expenditure programs
(PEPs) in four key ministries - Agriculture, Works and Communications, Health, and Education,
and public enterprise sector reform, especially the privatization of the Gambia Commercial and
Development Bank). The Government, concerned about the possibility of losing the budget
support needed to keep the program  on track, made the required efforts and met the
conditionalities by November 1991. The IMF ESAF was successfully completed and expired in
November 1991, making The Gambia one of the few ESAF 'graduates' in Africa, and raising
the issue of the future of the PFP process in the post-ESAF era in The Gambia.
vi.    On balance, implementation of the reform  program  was satisfactory, juxtaposing
impressive results in macro-economic stabilization with continued institutional weaknesses in
domestic resource mobilization and their effective usage. Results were also impressive in opening
the economy to market forces. SAL II thus consolidated the gains made under SAL It and there
was no policy reversal.
vii.   Specific SAL I structural reform accomplishments include: (i) in the agricultural sector -
- liberalizing the groundnut pricing system, eliminating the processing and export monopolies of
GPMB, and restructuring the Gambia Cooperatives Union (GCU); (ii) in thefinancial sector -
privatizing the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB); (iii) in resource
mobilization - implementing the national sales tax; (iv) in public expenditure management -
allocating higher recurrent expenditures to education and health, shifting allocations in favor of
operations and maintenance (O&M), and implementing a three-year rolling public investment
program (PIP); (v) in public administration - implementing some personnel policy instruments,
such as a partially improved pay and grading system, a computerized payroll system, schemes
of service, establishment of the central civil service management office (Personnel Management
Office); and (vi) in public enterprise reform - divesting six public enterprises, liquidating two,
and signing three new performance contracts and renewing the existing ones.
lo achivemaents under SAL I pserved under SAL 1 include: (i) the flexible exchage rateo synm; (ii)
oveall budget discipline nd generally retrictive monetsiy policy; (iii) pudent extonal debt nuragmm
and the elimin    of external armu by 1990; (iv) liberalized interet rtel; (v) the liberalized trade
regime; nd (vi) privatization of some public enterprises nd improved mangement ad financial
perfomance for the most of remaining ones.



V
viii.  The Government was less successful in implementing policy reforms aimed at structural
changes in public administration and public resource management. Results were weak in: (i)
eqforcing tax administration to prevent revenue leakages in customs duty and income tax
collections; (ii) reforming the budget process - slow progress in introducing a program-based
budget; and (iii) civil service reform - low efficiency and inadequate incentives.
ix.    Results were real and impressive for policy measures whose implementation required
disengaging government from direct control and allowing markets to respond (stroke of the pen
measures - para. 5), much less so in areas requiring strong institutional capabilities. While the
Government proved quite effective in redefining the respective roles of the public and private
sectors, including setting up regulatory mechanisms, it was less successful in completing reforms
aimed at structural changes within the public administration itself and in enforcing regulatory
mechanisms. Program implementation fell short of its objectives when it required systematic and
continuous institutional capacity building and management skills (civil service reform and tax
reforms), as well as strong political commitment.
Credit Monitorini and Administration
xi.   The Govermment Economic Recovery Program  (ERP) Steering Committee was
responsible for program monitoring and the Cabinet of Ministers was in charge of overseeing
progress and implementation of the program. The Steering Committee, an independent
government policy advisory group, performed satisfactorily which was partly attributed to
extensive assistance provided by the Harvard Institute for International Development (HIID).
xii. The Bank devoted about 70.5 staff weeks to supervision both in the field and headquarters
which was crucial for ensuring progress with program reforms. There was a staff continuity in
the program design and supervision of implementation.
xiii.  Both public and private sector eligible imports were reimbursed at 100% of the CIF cost
under SAL II, and contracts equal td or above US$250,000 were subject to ICB. Financing of
imports of petroleum products and foodstuffs did not exceed 20% each of the total credit
disbursements. Based on well documented evidence that disbursements against customs invoices -
- an exception for reimbursements under the first tranche release - were abused, the Bank
insisted on a pre-shipment inspection as a requirement for the second tranche release. To
preserve the streamlined import procedures and to avoid the pre-inspection cost, the Bank agreed
to the Government proposal to carry out a comprehensive audit of the Directorate of Customs and
Excise. The audit, financed by the British ODA, disclosed numerous instances of revenue
leakages and the abuse of development certificates. The Government adopted and implemented
a Customs Action Plan. As a result, customs receipts increased significantly.
xiv.   Two audit reports on the credit accounts were completed by independent auditors. The
Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG) submitted the second audit report with almost a six month
delay. Both reports were satisfactory with regard to the Fund Accountability Statements.
Although the first audit report confirmed that 'the procedures and internal controls used to
prepare the statements of expenditures and related withdrawals for that period are adequate and
operating effectively", the second was qualified on the same account. Auditors recommended
corrective measures and CBG's management agreed to implement them.



vi
Lessons Learned
xv.   Implementation of policy reforms was contingent on: (i) political commitment; (ii) close
donor coordination and policy dialogue; (iii) Bank and IMF collaboration; and (iv) reliance on
technical assistance. SAL II implementation experience also shows that attention to long term
issues (strengthening institutional capacity and improving governance, developing a conducive
business environment, and alleviating poverty) has been 'crowded out' over the past years by
stabilization issues which, while essential and unavoidable, also creates a strong short term vision
to the Bank's work.
xvi. Political Comnmitment. Bank's expectations for the success of SAL II were based on
continuous strong support and commitment of H.E. The President and the Government to the
program reforms. Particularly important in underpinning Government commitment was the
leadership of H.E. Sheriff Saikouba Sisay, Minister of Finance, the key player in launching the
ERP and managing successfully the reform process under SAL I. The high level political
commitment to the reform program, however, was uneven over the life of the program. It
wavered in late 1989 and led to program slippages. This coincided with the death of the H.E.
Sheriff Saikouba Sisay. Political resistance to policy reforms increased, especially those dealing
with public resource mobilization and eliminating economic rents associated with control of somne
public enterprises, particularly GPMB, GCDB, and GUC.  Political resistance to and
interferences with policy reforms was most obvious where institutions were weak and when
stakeholders did not share a common understanding and consensus on the rationale, objective,
scope, and sequencing of reforms. However, the commitment to stabilization and liberalization
remained unequivocal throughout the program.
xvii. Donor Coordination and Policy Dialogue. When the Government commitment to
policy reforms weakened, donor coordination and aid leverage became instrumental in renewing
government reform efforts, particularly in late 1991. Donor coordination was especially effective
in pushing for the privatization of GCDB and the preparation of GPMB for privatizadon, in the
leasing of GUC, and in ensuring higher budget allocations to the social sectors. Nevertheless,
donor coordination would be better used to assist the Government in addressing long term
development issues and providing a policy advise rather than to prod weakening reform efforts.
2 Donors coordinated their financial aid effectively through SPA for budgetary assistance and
through the three-year rolling PIP process for investment. Coordination, however, was not as
effective for technical assistance, particularly with regard to capacity building.
xviii.  Bank and IMF Collaboration.  The Bank and IMF's monitoring of macro-onomic
and structural reform performance in the context of the PFP mechanism were an important factor
in staying the reform course. Although the two institutions shared views on accomplishments in
macro-economic and financial performance (exchange rate policy, monetary and overall fiscal
discipline, external reserves, and positive interest rates), they often differed on performance of
specific structural reforms and sectors. The Bank's concerns with the structure and composition
of public expenditure, restructuring of GCDB, and privatizing GPMB were not always viewed
by the IMF with the same importance or urgency. These differences in views resulted in sending
mixed signals to the Government.
2  Regrding thUis poUt, the OovermMet observed wthat donor coordinaton wwld be better used to aib the
Uovenmiet both in long tem developmai nd short term progam mippot in a cohesive mnn and to
adopt a flexible policy in tern of monitoring and evaluaing the condiionalitie to be met".



vii
xix.   On balance, the Bank/IMF coordination has been a positive factor in supporting reform
efforts, and ways ought to be found to structure it now that the PFP process is over. Such a
structure, however, ought to permit a greater focus on long-term development issues than has
been the case in the context of programs which are essentially (and properly) concerned mostly
with stabilization (restoring internal and external balances). With its graduation from the ESAF,
and its accomplishments on the stabilization front, The Gambia might well be an excellent case
to define a new and enhanced longer term framework for post-ESAF Bank/IMF collaboration.
xx.   Reliance on Technical Assistance. Implementation of policy reforms was facilitated
by generous technical assistance (about 32 % of total gross ODA disbursements) which helped to
compensate for Government's weak institutional capacity. Dedicated technical assistance,
responsible for designing and monitoring the impact of the reform program, and accustomed to
work for a committed and forceful leader, was another factor in this success at the program's
inception. However, weak institutional capacity to design and implement development programs
and projects, including IDA's portfolio, seriously undermines the sustainability of policy reforms.
Technical assistance mostly substituted for and deferred the development of the country's
institutional capacity, with some notable exceptions (the sales tax and CBG). Because of political
resistance, technical assistance had limited capacity to implement tax reforms (except for the sales
tax) and to enforce transparent tax administration. SAL II was not designed to provide a
framework to ensure the effective use of the technical assistance provided by individual donors,
and upon which it extensively relied.
xxi.   Refocusing on long term  development issues.  Since 1985, the attention of the
Government and its development partners has rightly been focused on short term stabilization
measures, without which there would have been no future. With the macro-economic situation
under control, the challenge is now to address long term development issues - economic
diversification, human resource development, population growth, poverty, and the environment -
- even more forcefully. The Government has already made progress in preparing national
programs with donor assistance. In 1992, it completed three key programs: (i) The Gambia
Environment Action Plan (NEAP), agreed and supported under SAL H and prepared with
UNDP's assistance, which was strongly endorsed at a Donor Meeting in Banjul in February
1993; (ii) a National Population Policy (NPP) which was adopted by the Cabinet in June 1992;
and (iii) the Economic Management Capacity Building Program (EMCBP) prepared with UNDP's
assistance which was discussed at the October 1992 Donor Round Table Meeting in Geneva and
provides a broad framework to address institutional issues. Finally, the Government is currently
in the process of preparing, with UNDP's assistance, a draft Strategy for Poverty Alleviation
(SPA). These issues define a rich unfinished long term policy agenda for the continued
partnership between The Gambia and the Bank.
Outstanding Issues: The Unfinished Policy Agenda
xxii.  Fragility. After almost eight years of adjustment supported by two SALs, the economy,
though much healthier than in 1985, remains fragile. Macro-economic management has not yet
shifted from a crisis-driven structural adjustment program to one oriented towards sustainable
growth. The reform program supported by SAL I led to some diversification, but economic
growth remains uneven and narrowly based. Although the environment for private investment
has improved with the maintenance of macro-economic stability, the absence of a reliable and
predictable judiciary system and a weak financial sector still constitute serious constraints. The
country's vulnerability is further accentuated by its weak capacity to mobilize domestic resources,
to allocate them effectively for priority programs and projects, and to monitor their use. Weak



viii
institutional capacity limits the public sector's ability to provide efficient social and infrastructure
services, and to facilitate private sector growth. Finally, inadequate domestic resource
mobilization keeps the country unduly dependent on aid, thus contributing to its vulnerability in
today's changing aid climate.
xxiii. Reducing the country's vulnerability hinges on maintaining macro-economic stability,
undertaking further reforms, and implementing clear growth-oriented sectoral strategies and
policies in the medium term. Policy reforms remain unfinished in the areas of: (i) domestic
resource mobilizadon; (ii) the budget process; (iii) civil service management ; and (iv) the legal
and judiciary systems. A proposed Economic Management SECAL, coupled with policy
conditionality and institutional development, will focus on the remaining policy agenda and on
capacity building.
xxiv. The need for faster growth. Sustaining fiscal and monetary discipline in general and
liberalizing the economy contributed significantly to macro-economic stability. However, the
response of the economy to policy changes was modest during the SAL If period: real GDP
growth averaged 4% per annum and was uneven and narrowly based. Given the fast increasing
population (4.1 %), this level of GDP growth is quite below what is needed to make significant
strides in alleviating the pervasive poverty in The Gambia.' Thus far, export and savings
improvements in response to the changing economic environment were insufficient to reduce a
still sizable investment-savings gap. Growth in exports was mostly limited to re-export activities
in the sub-region induced by macro-economic distortions in the neighboring countries compared
with the liberalized trade regime in The Gambia. Higher domestic savings (averaging about 5%
of GDP) were attributed both to improvements in private savings in response to positive real
interest rates and more importantly to government savings. A reduction in gross domestic
investment reflected the decline in public investment as a result of a greater focus on priority
sectors and maintenance of existing assets. Modest increases of private investment took place in
tourism-related activities, construction, fisheries, horticulture, and real estate, reflecting the
importance of macro-economic stability for improving investor confidence. Reducing economic
vulnerability, ensuring macro-economic stability, and bolstering the environment for private
investment are prerequisites for accelerating growth, and they define the unfinished policy
agenda.
xxv.  Public Resource Management. Results in public resource management are fragile and
pose a serious challenge to the sustainability of macro-economic stability. Reduction in the
budget deficit resulted mainly from curtailing both recurrent and development expenditures, but
efforts to improve domestic resource mobilization remained below the country's potential. The
budget deficit and net lending (net of official transfers) as a share of GDP was reduced from
16.8% in 19871/88 to 4.1% in 1991/92. However, progress in introducing public expenditure
programming (PEP) to improvetheefficiency of limitedpublicresources remained unsatisfactory.
And SAL I did not address directly the related constraints in the budget process, i.e. weak
institutional capacity, inadequate budget accounting and coding, and lack of accountability in
monitoring budget execution. Nor did it contain a coherent institutional strategy or action plan
to transform the existing line-budget process into a PEP-based system. Finally, despite good
results in implementing the national sales tax, inadequate collection of income tax and weak tax
administration limited resource mobilization.
Ttmo   o  data fmn th Poplfation and Hosing Censz 1993 inds tho avag aul populto
grovh of about 4.1% for the pmiod 1983-93.



ix
xxvi.  Governance.   Although policy reforms under SAL n removed some sources of
inefficiencies in public resource allocations, governance issues continue to affect donor and
investor confidence. Market-oriented policy reforms and public enterprise reforms (privadzation
of GCDB and pending privatization of GPMB, as well the broadly applied performance contract
system) were effective in reducing some abusive practices. However, problems remain acute in
areas where policy reforms failed to produce results and public institutions remain weak: (i) non-
transparent tax administration; (ii) slow process in improving accountability in programming and
monitoring public expenditures; and (iii) an inadequate incentive system for civil servants,
including inadequate human resource management and career development. To address thes
issues requires policy reforms, change in attitudes and enforcement of the rule of law. The
Government started addressing some well-documented cases of resource leakages by
implementing the Customs Action Plan (March 1992) and by setting up the Asset Management
Recovery Company to collect GCDB's bad debt. Much of this action was a result of donor
pressure. If sustained and successful, these actions are bound to send a strong mesage both to
the people of The Gambia and the donor community about the Government's determination not
to tolerate public resource abuses in the future.



I



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPR
Republic of The Gambia
Credit 2032-GM - Second Structural Adjustment Program
PART I. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name                       : Second Structural Adjustment Program
Loan/Credit Number         : Credit 2032-GM
RVP Unit                   : Africa
Country                    : Republic of The Gambia
Sector                     : Structural Adjustment Lending
2. Introduction
1.   The Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II) to the Republic of The Gambia in the amount
of SDR17.9 million (US$23.0 million equivalent) was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8,
1989. The Credit became effective on August 11, 1989, and was released in two equal tranches of
US$11.5 million equivalent. The first tranche was disbursed upon Credit effectiveness, and the second
tranche release was delayed for 18 months, until January 31, 1992. The delay was caused by a slippage
in various components of the program during 1989/90-1990/91.
2.   The SAL II Credit was supplemented by cofinancing from the African Development Bank and the
governments of The Netherlands, Norway, and Switzerland. Also, the United Kingdom, United States,
and the European Community provided quick-disbursing financing under the Special Program of
Assistance (SPA) for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) low income, debt-distressed countries with adjustment
programs in place.
3.   SAL II supported the second phase of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), the Government's
ambitious and far-reaching reform program launched in 1985 (para. 5). SAL II was designed to continue
and deepen achievements of the First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL I) (paras. 6-13). After
significant accomplishments during the first year, the reform momentum and political commitment to it
eroded in late 1989. To bring the program back on track in late 1991, it took both time and concerted
pressure by the donor community led by the Bank in the context of an intensive policy dialogue under
SAL II supervision.
4.   The IMF supported the ERP's second phase through a three-year arrangement under the Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) during 1988/89-1990/91. The ESAF objectives were in line with
those of SAL II (para. 15). The program targets of the first and third annual arrangements under ESAF
were broadly implemented on schedule, but implementation weakened significantly under the second
annual ESAF arrangement. To address the slippage in targets for gross official reserves and money
supply, the Government implemented corrective measures. Following the expiration of the three-year



2
ESAF arrangement in November 1991, the Government requested continuing close policy dialogue with
the IMF and the Bank, and economic and financial performance for 1992/93 was monitored in the context
of an exceptional Sixth Year PFP covering the following three-year period.
3. Background and the Adjustment Experience under SAL I '
5.   Objectives. In response to the economic crisis which culminated in 1985, the Government launched
the ERP which serves as a successful example of stabilization and adjustment efforts in SSA. The first
phase of the ERP (1986/87-1988/89) was supported by SAL I approved by the Executive Directors on
August 26, 1986. In its first phase, the ERP had two major objectives: reversing internal and external
imbalances, and initiating structural changes that would enable a resumption of growth. To achieve these
objectives, the Government sought to: (i) create a favorable macro-economic and sectoral policy
environment through the elimination of exchange rate and other pricing distortions, and the application
of other incentives; (ii) reverse the overextension of government administration and parastatal activity;
and (iii) improve macro-economic and financial performance.
6.   Results. The reform program was successful in improving the macro-economic policy environment
and restored financial balances and competitiveness. Progress was particularly remarkable in the area
of stabilization and incentive measures. Some impressive results were accomplished in carrying out
market-based structural reforms which did not overburden institutional capacity, including: a floating
exchange rate system, a market-determined interest rate system, price liberalization in agriculture, and
further trade liberalization.
7.   Macro-economic Environment and Incentives. One of the most remarkable achievements was
the introduction and the smooth functioning of the floating exchange rate system (January 1986). After
an initial depreciation of about 100%, the exchange rate stabilized within several months. This along
with restrictive monetary and fiscal policies boasted exports, resulting in higher foreign exchange earnings
and eliminated gradually the parallel market. To support the system, the Government liberalized foreign
exchange controls, including the removal of all restrictions on current payments and transfers. The
floating exchange rate policy contributed to a more rapid real exchange rate depreciation than in
neighboring Senegal. To improve returns to assets held in local currency, the CBG reduced its net credit
to the Government and started containing credit to public enterprises. As part of credit policy reform,
The Government helped parastatals to clear most interlocking arrears. The Government also adopted
market-determined interest rates, regulated through open market operations - a bi-weeldy tender system
for Treasury bills. Despite implementation of some initial measures to improve the financial performance
of the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB), a wholly owned government bank, serious
management and operational deficiencies continued to undermine the health of the financial sector.
8.   In agriculture, the Government sought to encourage increased efficiency in groundnut production,
diversification into other cash crops, and continued expansion of foodcrops. To achieve these objectives,
it liberalized pricing policy for all inputs and outputs with the exception of groundnuts, promoted the
exclusive role of the private sector in output marketing and input supplies, and provided credit for inputs
on market terms. As an exceptional measure, the Government subsidized the 1986/87 groundnut
4 SAL I PCR was compbbtd on June 27, 1989. Its conclusions are reflected in this ection.



3
producer prices above the world price parity to improve export earnings from groundnuts in support of
the floating exchange rate system. Subsidies were financed by generous program aid inflows. The
Government started gradually to bring groundnut producer prices in line with world market prices in
1987/88, with the objective to eliminate unaffordable and uneconomic subsidies (para. 35).
9.   Public Sector Role and EMciency.  The Government sought to increase economic efficiency
through: improving public resource management, reducing its portfolio in productive activities, and
ameliorating financial performance of the remaining public enterprises. In an attempt to improve
domestic revenue mobilization, the Government introduced a revised income tax, aimed at increasing
efficiency and equity of the income tax system and at reducing widespread tax evasion. Also, the
Government enacted a new national sales tax, aimed at broadening the domestic tax base, improving the
effectiveness of tax collection, and streamlining the administration of indirect taxation by replacing
numerous existing taxes. This laid the groundwork for tax reform implemented in the second phase of
the ERP. On the expenditure side, the Government made noticeable progress in: (i) curtailing the wage
bill - partially by retrenching about 24% of the civil servants in 1986 and 1987; (ii) addressing the
recurrent cost problem by changing the composition of public expenditure in favor of higher allocations
to operations and maintenance (O&M); and (iii) reducing capital expenditure. By May 1987, the
Government designed and adopted a three-year rolling public investment program (para. 32) which was
reviewed and agreed to by IDA, ODA, and AfDB. The PIP emphasized the completion of viable ongoing
projects in infrastructure, agricultural development, health and education in support of private sector
development over new projects. Monitoring project implementation under the PIP was a problem area.
10.  The SAL I PCR stated that civil service reform was one of the most successful policy components:
'By the deadline of October 31, 1986, the Government had exceeded reduction targets of SAL I by
affecting a 24% cut in total Government employment and a 14% reduction in its annual wage bill. The
sweeping retrenchment included 2,625 temporary-daily paid workers and 764 established civil servants,
and an additional 848 vacant established posts were eliminated. The Government established a moratorium
on the creation of new civil service posts during the ERP, imposed restrictions on the filling of vacancies,
and put a halt to the practice of transferring unspent budget allocations to other expenditure categories."
The Government also adopted a comprehensive five-year Administrative Reform Program implemented
during SAL II (para. 41).
11. The Government made initial progress in implementing a public enterprise reform program which
slated some enterprises for divestiture and others for operations under performance contracts. During
1987/88, the Government sold to the public its minority holdings in Standard Chartered Bank, CFAO,
a trading company, and Old Atlantic Hotel. The Government also leased a hotel to a foreign private
company. A moratorium was instituted on the creation of new public enterprises. Although delayed,
the Government signed performance contracts with The Gambia Ports Authority (GPA), the Gambia
Utilities Corporation (GUC), and with the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB). This delay was
caused by a postponement in the consultants's report and too broad initial performance contract drafts.
12. Economic and Financial Performance. Macro-economic and financial performance improved
significantly during the SAL I period. The main accomplishments included: (i) keeping the budget deficit
within program targets although it widened in the first two years of the program because of an increase
in subsidies to GPMB in support of groundnut producer prices and increased expenditures on maintenance
and rehabilitation; (ii) generally restrictive monetary and credit policy; (iii) positive real interest rates;
and (iv) improvements in the external position, reduction of external arrears, and build-up of external
reserves. The annual rate of inflation, on an end-period basis, dropped from 70% in 1985/86 to about



4
9% in 1987/88. During the same period, gross external reserves increased from less than one week of
imports to about 2.5 months of imports. Although debt was rescheduled both by the London and Paris
clubs, in 1987 and 1988 respectively, debt service payments amounted to about 68% of exports and
services less imports for re-exports. High debt service payments were met because of generous aid
inflows and by constraining other public expenditure outlays including the wage bill. Policy reforms along
with favorable weather conditions led to a resumption of real GDP growth, which averaged about 3%
per annum. ' The SAL I PCR cited: "The improved policy environment led to a surge in private sector
activity which underpinned the economy's resumption of growth, and helped lay the foundation for
sustained medium term growth and diversification of the economy". Improvements in the incentive
system led to more efficient resource allocation which resulted in some modest economic diversification,
notably in fisheries, construction, agriculture, and tourism.
13.  SAL I achievements, notwithstanding, structural weaknesses remained in public expenditure
management, inefficiencies in the production, processing and marketing of groundnuts, and financial and
managerial capacity of GCDB. This set up the agenda for further policy reforms.
4. Identification and Design of SAL 11
14.  Encouraged by the accomplishments of the ERP's first phase, the Government requested the Bank's
support for the second phase of the ERP (1988/89-1989/90). The Bank agreed to support policy reforms
under SAL II, appraised in October 1988. The draft Government Statement of Development Policy
underlined policies for sound macro-economic management and political commitment was not in question.
15. SAL II objectives were those of the ERP's second phase: the continuation of sound macro-economic
management and deepening of structural reforms with a view to improving economic growth, efficiency,
and equity. Specific objectives included: (i) strengthening public resource management to achieve further
reductions in the fiscal deficit and to establish an appropriate level and balance between recurrent and
investment expenditures, with priority to the social sectors; (ii) promoting efficiency in groundnut
processing and marketing; and (iii) improving public sector management through implementation of civil
service and public enterprise reforms. A matrix of key SAL II measures is attached (Annex).
5. SAL II Achievements
A. Macro-Economic and Financial Performance
16.  The Government further narrowed economic and financial imbalances. By 1990/91, macro-
economic performance was above the program targets: the budget deficit and net lending (net of official
transfers) declined to 4.1 % of GDP, the annual inflation rate (measured by a consumer price index)
declined to about 5.4%, and external reserves were equivalent to about 3.4 months worth of imports.
However, expansionary fiscal and monetary policies in the first half of 1991/92 pushed inflation to about
5 This avme givwth is diffcrw* from the 5.5% cited in the SAL I PCR becaue of the interim revision of
nrtonsl accounts.



5
14.5% and demonstrated the fragility of stabilization results. The March 1992 corrective measures
restored macro-economic discipline, and the program came back on track.
17. In response to policy changes and favorable weather conditions in general, real GDP growth
averaged 4% per annum during SAL II. In spite of some diversification, GDP growth remained uneven
and narrowly based. With the fast increasing population (4.1 %), economic growth was clearly
insufficient, in per capita terms, to make significant progress in alleviating the pervasive poverty.
Although exports and savings improved, they remained insufficient to reduce a sizable investment-savings
gap. Growth in exports was mostly limited to re-export activities in the sub-region induced by macro-
economic distortions in the neighboring countries compared with the liberalized trade regime in The
Gambia. Higher domestic savings (averaging about 5% of GDP) were attributed both to improvements
in private savings in response to positive real interest rates and more importantly to government savings.
A reduction in gross domestic investment reflected a decline in public investment as a result of focusing
expenditures on the priority sectors and the maintenance of the existing fixed assets. Modest increases
of private investment took place in tourism-related activities, construction, fisheries, horticulture, and real
estate, reflecting the importance of macro-economic stability for improving investor confidence.
B. Public Resource Management
18. This component aimed at improving: (i) domestic resource mobilization; (ii) public expenditure
management; and (iii) public investment program (PIP).
(i) Domestic Resource Mobilization
19.  Objectives. To improve revenue collection through full implementation of tax reforms designed
under SAL I and their enforcement, the Government sought to:
(a) achieve on average a 10% annual growth in government revenues;
(b) extend the coverage of the sales tax to major service sectors (telecommunications, air transport,
insurance, hotels, restaurants, nightclubs, cinemas, and casinos) by June 1989, and to monitor the
impact on fiscal revenue and economic activity;
(c) strengthen tax administration particularly by minimizing revenue leakages from the misclassification
of imports as duty-free items; and
(d) monitor and assess, with external technical assistance, the impact of the income tax system.
20.  Results. The government revenue collection effort was below the country's potential. Although
annual growth in government revenues averaged 17.6% during the period, the annual rate declined over
the period. After an initial boost in revenue performance of 35% in 1988/89 resulting from a broad
application of the 10% sales tax, this growth could not be sustained. The positive impact of the sales tax
was not matched by sufficient income tax enforcement or by a reduction in pervasive customs duty



6
evasion. 6 Performance of the payroll and company tax was unsatisfactory. For example, a number
of public enterprises have been lending resources to the Government, through the Treasury Bill tender
mechanism, which could have been taxed through better tax administration. By 1990/91, government
revenues grew only by 4.9%, and as a share of GDP declined to about 20% in 1990/91 compared with
23% in 1988/89. 7
21. The Government made significant progress in the broad application of the national sales tax. The
share of sales taxes in total government revenue increased about fivefold in four years: from 7% in
1987/88 to 36% in 1991/92. Several factors explain this success: (i) low resistance by tax payers who
were informed well in advance about this new tax; (ii) technical assistance which included training staff;
(iii) training was organized and coordinated before tax implementation; (iv) serious monitoring and
follow-up; (v) adequate sequencing of the measures so as not to overburden those who were administering
the tax; and (vi) generally satisfactory enforcement of the tax legislation by tax collectors. Results in
building institutional capacity were crucial in sustaining the sales tax system. What did not work well
were exemptions granted to hotels for package tours, and Customs' management was not always willing
to enforce some legal sanctions (e.g. withdrawal of imported goods) against tax defaulters.
22.  Both tax payers and the Government showed resistance to enforcement of the income tax system.
Donor designed tax reforms called for administrative efficiency: simplifying the laws, eliminating
ministerial and administrative discretion, broadening the base, and lowering the rates. Despite changes
introduced since 1988, tax administration remains non-transparent, and tax-related revenues are still
undercollected. The main reasons are: (i) continued resistance to computerization of the Central Revenue
Department; (ii) abuse of investor incentives (development certificates); (iii) long delays in changing the
income tax structure and rates; (iv) lack of systematic effort to share information among revenue
agencies; and (v) Government's reluctance to enforce sanctions against tax defaulters. For example, there
was no legal action to correct the cases of major customs fraud that came to light in the 1989 study on
duty-free imports.
23.    No policy conditionalities were envisaged under SAL II to bolster the enforcement of tax reforms.
Instead, SAL II relied on close monitoring of the impact of tax reforms implementation by those donors
who financed implementation of respective taxes (USAID). With the exception of the sales tax, this
approach did not work well. In addition, the Government's lenient approach to tax administration
(customs tax evasion, including the widespread granting of discretionary customs duty waivers)
contributed to tax undercollection. Different studies demonstrated how loopholes in the tax laws and lack
6 Regarding the sales tax, the Government observed that the Bank has put "the over emphasis on the performance of the
Sales tax in relation to other revenues'.
7
Initial efforts in tax rforms were limited to a restructuring of import tariffs: introduction of the ad valorem system, a
rationalization of the tariff structure and lowering of the average duty rates. In the next intance, a rationalized and
restructured income tax system was introduced in January 1988 and a new  kal tax sysem in April 1988, with a view
to reducing the predominant reliance of government revenue on import duties. Tax reforms were designed to stengthen
tax administration, broaden the tax base, and further improve the incentive system.



7
of enforcement have served personal ends. I To enforce the 1992 Customs Action Plan, the Bank insisted
on its implementation before it would disburse the second tranche (para. 65). This approach worked
because significant amounts of quick-disbursing aid were at stake. As a result, revenues from import
duties increased by 23% in 1991/92. '
(ii) Public Expenditure Management
24. Objectives. To contain overall public expenditure and to reconcile competing demands for limited
public resources, the Government sought to:
(a) eliminate subsidies/transfers to GPMB and GUC;
(b) allow an increase in the wage bill by about 13% in real terms as of January 1989, to make up for
the erosion in real salaries over the years. The wage bill would not, however, exceed 30% of
recurrent expenditure;
(c) increase further the share of O&M and rehabilitation/maintenance, health, and education in the
recurrent budget; and
(d) achieve expenditure priorities in an efficient and effective manner on a sustained basis through
medium term public expenditure programs (PEP). The objective of a PEP-based budget was to
provide a framework for the effective and efficient allocation of recurrent and development public
expenditures on a sustained basis, taking into account limited public resources and competing
development objectives.
25. Results. Results in public expenditure management were mixed. The policies for containing public
expenditure started under SAL I were successfully maintained. 11 Good results were attributed mostly
to the gradual elimination of subsidies/transfers to GPMB and GUC and to the containment of the wage
bill. Although the Government increased the wage bill by 67%  across-the-board in January 1989, this
A study on the tax sytem in The Gambia prepared by the Harvard Institute for Intemational Development (HHID), in
Febniazy 1992, revealed disconcerting evidence of substantial loss in government revenues because of lack of
enfocmanent of the revenue code.
9 Tax revenues from external trade decrased since 1987/88, following a significant incres in absolute tems during
1985/86 and 1986/87. In addition to customs tax evasion, reductions in tariffs on imports for r-exports (adjustmen  in
the trade regime to improve competitiveness in the region) contributed to a decline in customs-rclated revenue.
10
Regarding import related revenues in 1991/92, the Borrower observed that to say that it was only due to Customs
Action Plan of 1992 that an increas in import duties of 23% in 1991/92 was possible is in our view [MFEAJ
debatable.
11
The thrust of these policies was to reduee the average size of the wage bill, to eliminat trnsfers/subsidies to the public
setor, to service intemal and extenal debt, to increase allocations to operations and maintenne, particulaly in the
social sectors, and to increae the efficiency of development expenditure by shifting the focus on the rchabilitation and
development of the economic and social infmstucture.



8
was not sufficient to make up for the erosion of the wages and salaries bill in real terms over many years. 12
The total share of the wage bill increased to about 29% of recurrent expenditures in 1988/99 from 16%
in 1987/88.
26. In an effort to restore relations with its main donors and creditors, the Government paid external
debt service on time and eliminated external arrears by July 1990. In addition, the Government
maintained a moratorium on loan guarantees for public and private borrowers and a commitment to new
external borrowing on concessional terms. Interest payments on public and publicly guaranteed debt
constituted a significant share of recurrent expenditures given the policy of public expenditure
containment. Average interest payments under SAL II accounted for about 23 % of recurrent expenditures
(219% during SAL I) compared to 22 % spent on the social sectors (15 % during SAL I). This was a costly
reminder of the lack of financial discipline prior to the ERP.
27.  Higher allocations to the social sectors were often a contentious issue, and ensuring that the
programmed amounts were effectively spent required much effort. After having failed to meet agreed
targets for recurrent expenditure on education and health in 1989/90, the Government agreed to allocate
programmed resources in 1990/91 under Bank and donor pressure in the context of SAL II supervision.
It took both time and effort to adjust the pattern of public expenditures to development objectives: human
resource development, and economic and social infrastructure maintenance. Reallocation of public funds
toward priority sectors and categories had to rely on gross target setting, with little basis in budget or
program analysis. With little ability to assess the productivity of various expenditures, target setting was
more intuitive and less directly linked to absorptive capacity or cost effectiveness, underlining the need
for further improvements in this area.
28. Changing the pattern and the composition of recurrent expenditures based on a program-oriented
budget (PEPs) did not go as planned for the four line ministries targeted under SAL II: Agriculture,
Health, Education, and Works and Communication. The process was envisaged in phases. In the first
phase, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (MFEA) was to coordinate the establishment of
PEPs in the four key line ministries on a pilot basis (specifc second tranche condion). Pending
successful implementation in these four line ministries, the PEP-based budget was to be adopted at the
MFEA for the Government as a whole. However, slow progress in establishing even the most
rudimentary PEPs in the four line ministries was one of the main reasons which delayed second tranche
release. In retrospect, this may have been an overly complex and ambitious objective, given that SAL
n design did not envisage: (i) developing a coherent strategy and action plan to transform the existing
line-budget process into a PEP-based system; (ii) improving financial controls under the existing budget
system; (iii) revising the accounting and expenditure coding structure to make it suitable for PEPs; (iv)
developing centrally organized planning and budgeting process; and (v) developing the institutional
capacity to support it both in line ministries and in the MFEA. The process was also hindered by
ministerial-level constraints including: (i) weak accounting and financial management skills; (ii) lack of
integration between the development and recurrent budgets; (iii) lack of linkages between the planning
and budgeting process; and (iv) lack of information on unit costs.
29.  Success stories in developing a PEP-based budget are still few in number in less-developed
countries. After having realized that the Government had neither a clear sense of direction on how to
12
This was the firt substantil incmae since the inception of the ERP in 1985.



9
go about PEPs nor the institutional capacity to handle this complex process, the Bank organized and
UNDP financed short term consultancies for the four ministries (total of 5 staff-months) to assist the
Government in preparing PEPs. By December 1991, short term consultants identified priority programs,
reflecting national development objectives and priorities, for which they prepared preliminary medium
term projections of budgetary outlays based on expenditure information for the 1989/90-1990/91 period.
The consultants' work on PEPs for the four line ministries was sufficient for meeting the specific SAL
II conditionality, but represented only a timid first step in operationalizing a PEP-based budget system.
The four concerned ministries, as well as the MFEA, are still unclear about the technical aspects of
establishing a PEP-based budget. This is clearly an area where the reform agenda remains unfinished
and requires further work.
30. While agreeing that the budget deficit bottom line criteria were being met, the Bank was concerned
that it would be through a pattern of expenditures supportive of long-term development objectives. This
led the Bank and the IMF to look at the overall performance through different lenses. As a result, on
a number of occasions, the Government received mixed signals regarding the strength of their economic
performance.
(iii) Public Investment Program (PIP)
31.  Objectives. To improve effectiveness of public investment in the priority sectors, through use of
the three-year rolling PIP, the Government sought to
(a) raise the productivity of public investment by observing the stringent investment criteria adopted
under SAL I; and
(b) expedite execution of public investment through quarterly reviews of implementation of the PIP.
32.  Results.  The Government adhered to the efficiency criteria and priorities for public investment
established under the ERP, but results in the physical and financial implementation of the PIP were less
satisfactory. The government-designed PIP has been reviewed annually by the Bank since 1988/89. The
three-year-rolling PIP proved pivotal in shifting limited public resources to economic and social
infrastructure. With improvements in the PIP, public investment choices shifted in favor of maintenance,
preserving the value of fixed assets, and new projects with high economic and social returns in priority
sectors. As a result, the priority-focused development budget was further reduced to about 7% of GDP
on average during SAL II compared with about 10% during the SAL I period, thus contributing to further
narrowing of the overall budget deficit. The PIP also proved a useful instrument for aid coordination,
although donor cooperation in aid disbursements reporting could be improved.
33.  Project implementation, including the IDA portfolio, and monitoring of the development budget
execution were the weakest aspect of the PIP.  This is mostly explained by inadequate project
implementation capacity and lack of adequate communications among project units, planning units of line
ministries, and the PIP unit within the MFEA. "  Inadequate monitoring in line ministries delayed
13
On this point, the Borrower observed that 'implementation is difficult if the deuign and formulation of a project is
complex".



10
quarterly reports on project implementation prepared by the MFEA. 14 IDA portfolio performance has
generally improved as a result of some concrete actions (i.e. counterpart funds, timely audits, and
reducing political interferences), and that the Government has undertaken, following the November 1990
Country Implementation Review.
C. Agricultural Policies and Institutions
34.  Objectives. To achieve an efficient groundnut production system based on market-determined
prices, in addition to maintaining SAL I's achievements (liberalized cereal prices, marketing and trade,
and to maintain liberalization of prices and distribution of seeds, fertilizers, and other inputs), the
Government sought to:
(a) align groundnut prices with world market prices and abolish unaffordable and uneconomic subsidies
to GPMB as of the 1989/90 Trade Season; and
(b) increase the efficiency of groundnut processing and marketing to maximize producer prices. This
called for the promotion of a competitive environment and efficiency improvements in both GCU
and GPMB.
35.  Results. On balance, results were favorable: market competition was improved, groundnut prices
were liberalized, and GPMB's groundnut export monopoly was eliminated. The implementation of the
program was carried out in phases. Political resistance delayed actions aimed at: (i) addressing the
GPMB's management issue; (ii) abolishing the export and processing monopolies; and (iii) privatizing
GPMB. In the first phase, the program focused on promoting competition in domestic marketing by
eliminating the preferential status given to GCU. The next step was the elimination of subsidies to
GPMB and the adoption of a depot price system responsive to and aligned with world market prices.
Finally, GPMB's export monopoly was abolished and the company was offered for sale in late 1992, and
sold to a private sector consortium in July 1993.
36. Promoting competition in the domestic marketing of groundnuts focused on restoring GCU's
financial viability, while eliminating concessional loans from GCDB and buying allowances provided by
GPMB. These privileges had allowed GCU to overexpand, to overstaff, to operate inefficiently, and to
crowd out private traders. By successfully implementing an action program (specific second tranche
condition) these issues were addressed in a timely manner. Accomplishments included: (i) reduction of
the network of the Cooperative Produce Marketing Societies (CPMSs) from 86 units in 1988/89 to 54
in 1989/90; (ii) divestiture of non-profit operations; (iii) cutback of the work force from 483 to 110; and
(iv) elimination of preferential access to GCDB's credit starting in 1989/90. During the 1990/91 Trade
Season, GCU made a profit for the first time and private traders returned to the market.
37.  The introduction of a depot price system in the 1989/90 Trade Season led to the alignment of
groundnut producer prices with world market prices leading to the elimination of unaffordable and
uneconomic subsidies to GPMB. To maximize returns to farmers, the Government focused on improving
14
With regard to this point, the Borrower observed that 'although quarterly reporting system is not functioning at a
desired level, project site visits and reports based on them have increased".



11
GPMB's efficiency. To this end, the Government announced the liberalization of groundnut export
marketing in February 1990, and opened the use of GPMB's processing facilities to private traders. This
announcement, however, came too late in the season and had no impact on the 1989/90 Trade Season
(November 1989 to March 1990). Moreover, the private sector's participation was further delayed
because GPMB had to solve severe deferred maintenance problems in 1990 and its plant required
significant rehabilitation. Liberalization was thus, defacto, delayed until the 1991/92 Trade Season. By
then, subsidized prices in Senegal diverted the 1991/92 groundnut crop from GPMB and private sector's
participation in groundnut processing at GPMB has yet to really take place.
38. Efficiency improvements of GPMB were hindered by: (i) inadequate management; and (ii)
Government's resistance to address the management issue. The three-year performance contract signed
in 1987 did not improve efficiency, but it stalled privatization of GPMB which was the ultimate objective.
Management's impropriety, and the Government tolerating it, led to a serious case of fraud in 1991
resulting in significant losses to GPMB, which were paid out from the budget and by farmers who were
offered a lower producer price. Under donor pressure led by the Bank, the fraud-associated management
was suspended and replaced by the African Management Services Company (AMSCO), financed by the
Swiss Stabex. The new management prepared GPMB for privatization which is expected to be finalized
by end-June 1993. The GPMB's managers who were implicated in the fraud, although brought to justice,
have not yet been punished for misconduct.
D. Public Sector Manaeement
39. This component aimed at improving: (i) the efficiency of the public administration, (ii) the public
enterprise sector, and (iii) the financial sector through GCDB restructuring.
(i) Public Administration
40.  The Government sought to improve its own efficiency through: (a) personnelpolicies aiming at the
establishment of an adequately remunerated, better trained, and professionally-managed civil service; and
(b) restructuring of four ministries - strengthening the capacity of priority Ministries in delivering
essential programs. Policy reforms under this component corresponded to civil service reform (CSR) and
to a restructuring of line ministries envisaged by a comprehensive five-year Administrative Reform
Program (ARP) which the Government designed with British ODA's assistance in 1987. Results were
mixed.
(a) Personnel Policies
41.  Objectives.  To increase the efficiency of public services provision, to improve morale and to
reward civil service performance, the Government sought to:
(a) increase the wage bill (January 1989) for established civil servants to compensate partly for the
erosion in real wages and salaries;
(b) implement pay and grading reform (1989) aimed at eliminating imbalances between work
performed and rewards;



12
(c) develop and implement a staff inspection program (June 1989) covering the civil service on a 3-5
year cycle;
(d) introduce a performance-based staff appraisal system (December 1989) for grades 7-12, and for
grades 3-6 (May 1990); and
(e) revise the Public Service Act.
42.  Results.  The civil service reform succeeded in establishing a framework and core institutional
capacity for central civil service management, but failed to create "a leaner, affordable civil service that
is better managed, better trained and motivated, and more productive". Two initial retrenchments (under
SAL 1), job-grading, and capacity-building for central civil service management were insufficient to bring
about the latter. In addition, some planned instruments of CSR were incompletely implemented, and
insufficiently applied and extended at the level of line ministries (e.g. personnel management and
manpower development practices).
43.  Curtailing the wage bill without additional retrenchment contributed to a further deterioration in
real wages. During the SAL II period, the size of the civil service gradually increased to its pre-
retrenchment level (1985) despite initial retrenchments. This growth was attributed to the increase of the
number of teachers and health workers. Following the initial decrease on account of retrenchment in the
Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Works (MWC), the gradual increase in the civil service occurred
in the two priority sectors: the Ministries of Education (MOE) and Health (MOH). The average annual
growth rates of employment have been about 8.5% and 3.2% in the MOE and MOH, respectively, since
1987. The two initial retrenchments were implemented in conjunction with the restructuring of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Works. By end-1988, the staff reduction in the Ministry of Agriculture was
about 33% in the Ministry of Works and Communications by about 63% from the 1985 levels.
44. Without further major cuts in the civil service, the wage bill was curtailed through: (i) additional
cost saving measures (e.g. the virement between personnel emoluments and other expenditure was
abolished, budgetary provisions for vacant posts were reduced to a token amount, and restrictions were
placed on the creation of new posts, although not always strictly observed); and (ii) a pay increase
control. These measures alone were insufficient for a meaningful application of the pay and grading
system and limited the Government's ability to attract and retain skilled personnel.
45.  The application of the pay and grading system, introduced in 1989/90, fell short of its objective
to link compensation with performance because of limited budget resources awarded to the sizable civil
service. As a result, pay anomalies remain, and people adjust for the inadequate remuneration they
receive through a variety of means: frequent travel abroad by high level civil servants, overinvoicing of
other charges (car repairs and other services and purchases of materials), salary supplements under donor-
financed projects, or even outright work outside the administration. This adds to the already inadequate
management of the civil service and further undermines morale and performance.
46.   Other accomplishments were the introduction in 1989/90 of: (i) schemes of service (47 schemes
of services as of March 1993); (ii) a computerized payroll system; (iii) a staff inspection program (SIP)
with external technical assistance; and (iv) a performance based staff appraisal system. A framework
for central management of the civil service was provided by establishing the Personnel Management
Office (PMO) and granting it autonomy under the revised 1991 Public Service Act. To implement
personnel management and training policies, three PMO divisions (personnel management, manpower



13
development, and manpower services) carry out central civil service management activities to varying
standards and depths of application. The core program to improve civil service performance, now
consisting mainly of staff inspections and computerization of personnel data, appears to be drifting, and
a central organizing strategy for improvements in the civil service is lacking.
(b) Restructuring Four Key Ministries
47. Objectives. Restructuring of the Ministries of Agriculture (MOA), Works and Communications
(MWC), Health (MOH); and Education (MOE) was aimed at strengthening planning, monitoring, and
managing functions to facilitate the delivery of core programs in support of private sector development,
and to address long term constraints to sustained growth.
48. Results. Although formal restructuring of the four line ministries is considered complete in general,
the quality of the services which they either manage (road and building maintenance) or provide (health,
education, and agricultural services) stIll leaves much to be desired. Because of weak institutional
capacity to design, implement, and monitor sectoral policies, programs, and projects, these Ministries
continue to rely on external technical assistance. Weak programming and budgeting functions are
inadequate to support their role in support of the private sector. All four line ministers suffer from
common civil service weaknesses which are affecting their performance adversely: overstaffing,
inadequate incentives, poor personnel management and human resource development.   The
implementation of development projects, including The Gambia's IDA portfolio, is often fraught with
problems. Three out of five IDA projects, identified as problem projects in the FY92 ARIS are overseen
by the MWC, the MOH, and the MOE.
49.  Restructuring of the four ministries was carried out at different times. The restructuring of the
MOA and MWC started under SAL I and was completed under SAL H. The MOH and the MOE have
been restructured only recently in the context of the two IDA-financed projects: the National Health
Development Project (Cr. 1760-GM) and the Second Education Project (Cr. 2124-GM). Restructuring
of the MOA is considered successful (spec.fic second tranche condition). MOA changed its role from
that of a supplier of inputs and a producer, to one of a provider of agriculture services. To this end, the
Ministry was streamlined in three departments to focus on research and extension to support the rural
development program. Restructuring of the MOA included privatization of building and vehicle
maintenance, poultry and pig production, and seed production. There is still a need to improve staffing,
management, and human resource development. Restructuring of the MWC is particularly disappointing
because neither the Government nor the Ministry staff ever internalized the objectives and rationale of
the restructuring, which was based on recommendations made by a consultant study. Thus, after almost
five years of restructuring, the MWC notably lacks capacity to manage the process of maintaining roads,
i.e. planning, contracting, and contract supervision are virtually non-existent.
50.   Restructuring of the MOE and the MOH has taken longer than envisaged, particularly in the case
of the MOH. After protracted political resistance, the Cabinet approved the proposed reorganization of
the MOH only in December 1992 and the process is now well underway. In the case of the MOE, the
restructuring was linked to the IDA Second Education Project (Cr. 2124-GM) which did not start until
late 1991 and is now underway and closely supervised.



14
(ii) Public Enterrise Refom
51.  Objec*ves.   To improve the efficiency in the economy in general and the public sector in
particular, the Government sought to:
(a) maintain a moratorium on the creation of new public enterprises;
(b) continue the divestiture program for a number of identified public enterprises; and
(c) improve performance of the remaining public enterprises.
52. Results. With a few exceptions, implementation of the public enterprise reform program was
successful and is considered as one of the better accomplishments under SAL II. The public enterprise
sector's portfolio was further reduced and a number of remaining enterprises improved financial
performance and the quality of their services. The Government maintained a moratorium on the creation
of new public enterprises. Although during SAL n, the Government resisted and delayed leasing GUC
and privatizing GPMB and GCDB, these issues were finally resolved, sometimes under donor pressure.
In February 1993, GUC was leased to a reputable foreign company, with effectiveness in July 1993.
53. The number of divestitures under SAL II was impressive and included some 'strategic' public
enterprises (e.g. GPMB and GCDB), in addition to those with minority public holdings. Six wholly and
partially government-owned companies were privatized: National Insurance Company (December 1990),
Kanifing Brick Plant, Fish Processing and Marketing Corporation (October 1991), and Banjul Breweries
and African Hotel (January 1990). 16 The National Trading Company has been offered for sale. GPA
Dockyard was leased in April 1991, and GAMCOT was leased in May 1991 and sold in 1992. In
December 1992, the Kotu Workshop (vehicle repair) was leased to a private sector company. Seagull
Coldstores was liquidated (May 1991) as well as The Gambia River Transport Company. The Gambia
Ferry Services Company (GFSC) was converted in a mixed company in 1989/90 and its privatization has
been deferred because of mismanagement and related poor financial performance. Privatization modalities
and techniques varied including an employee stock ownership plan. Follow-up assessments of some
privatized enterprises showed improvements in profitability.
54. Results in strengthening management and financial performance of the remaining public enterprises
through the performance contract system were satisfactory, with the exception of GPMB, GUC, and
GCDB. Performance contracts (specific second tranche condition) were signed in 1990/91 with: the
Gambia Telecommunications Company Limited (GAMTEL), the Social Security and Housing Finance
Corporation (SSHFC), and the Gambia Public Transport Corporation (GPTC). Particularly, the
performance of GAMTEL, the telephone monopoly, improved significantly (telephone services - in
If
Regarding this poina, the Bornwer obwerved: 'the datement in this paragraph that Goverunmet resited and delayed the
lesing of GUC and the pnvaization of OPMB and GCDB s iaccurate. In as much as it i acknowledged that them
wem slippae in the timtable in respect of thee benchmurks, it should be undescored that these occumd as a  t
of the requird pzDcese necessay to effectively and exhaustively prepam these enterpnses for pnvatizato, and/or the
need to undertake further diagnostic and mket studies and/or lack of the OUC, GPMB, and GCDB. It should be
underscored that the lead donor involved in each of these respective enterprises fully appreciated and endorsed the
stuation which led to the inevitable delays in the privatization of these aforementioned enterprises.
16
Under SAL I and II some 20 public enterprise were privazized.



15
Banjul and international - are very good). Measures taken to improve financial performance of the
public enterprise sector included: (i) liberalizing procurement and pricing policies, including tariff
changes; (ii) financial restructuring through Government's taking over non-performing liabilities to
domestic and foreign creditors and credit repayments to the CBG; (iii) eliminating subsidies to public
enterprises, notably to GPMB and GUC (para. 25); (iv) supporting the rehabilitation and investment
programs of GPMB and GUC, financed by EEC's external assistance; and (v) retrenching redundant staff.
(iii) Restructuring of the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB)
55.  Objecttves.  To restore GCDB's financial health crucial to the financial system stability, the
Government defined a comprehensive action program, based on a 1988 diagnostic study, to restructure
it (specific second tranche condition) through: managerial changes, operational changes, bad debt
recovery, and financial restructuring/privatization.
56. Results. The main accomplishment was the elimination of the public sector from the financial
system with the privatization of GCDB in June 1992. This was a result of painstaking donor pressure,
led by the Bank, to stop a pattern of political interferences in GCDB's lending decisions, which had led
to massive granting of unjustified concessional loans to selected individuals and some public enterprises.
The legacy is a staggering stock of non-performing credits which, including interest accrued, amounted
to about US$25 million (about 8% of GDP and 10% of total external debt) at the end of 1992. This debt
creates a heavy burden for the budget in interest payments and crowds out credit to the private sector.
Lack of managerial autonomy was the main hindrance to the restructuring of GCDB. As a result of the
renewed reform efforts in late 1990, the managerial autonomy of GCDB was established and the
Government agreed to advance the schedule for privatization to May 1991. To improve prospects for
privatization, the Government set up the Asset Management Recovery Company (AMRC) to which it
transferred doubtful loans for recovery. IDA financed strengthening of AMRC's legal framework and
procedures under the Enterprise Development Project (Cr. 1975-GM). Almost a year after Cabinet
established the necessary legislation, loan collection is still trailing and enforcement lacks the required
vigor, a fact explained by the political prominence of some of the largest debtors. 17
E. Supporting Actions: Economic Divestiture and Infrastructure
57.  Progress with implementing accompanying measures to enhance the impact of favorable macro-
economic policies on private sector development fell short of its objectives:
(a) The 1988 Development Act Revision. The National Investment Board (NIB) has not yet issued
regulations (scheduled for 1989) governing the revised 1988 Development Act to include
17
Regarding slow recovery of bad loans, the Borrower observed: "The loan collection effoits of the AMRC cannot
assume the required vigor in the absence of the functioning of a commercial court system, and the appointment of a
special judge to handle AMRC cases, this process has been initiated. Suffice it to mention tht in as much as the
establishment of AMRC as a limited liability company was approved almost a year ago, further consultations with
donors necessitated a change in the legal structure of AMRC and hence the need to have it incorporated by an Act of
Parliament, this action was accomplished barely six months ago'.



16
transparent administrative procedures for granting development certificates. This work is supposed
to reduce loose interpretations of investment incentives and is now being carried out with USAID's
assistance.
(b) Promotion of New Joint-Ventures. Reflecting still inadequate promotion efforts for new joint
ventures, actual investments are still a few in tourism and horticulture. With USAID's assistance,
the NIB is developing the strategy, policy, and institutional capacity for a 'one-stop' service
facility.
(c) Expansion of Term Lending. Term lending is virtually non-existent in The Gambia after
privatization of GCDB. The line of credit under IDA's Cr. 1975-GM was expected to improve
the situation. However, only two loans were approved and these were never disbursed. At the
Borrower's request, the Bank cancelled the line in March 1993. Given the current interest rate
structure and undeveloped financial intermediation, the banking sector has no interest in term
lending. Efficient financial intermediation is clearly an item on the unfinished reform agenda.
(d) Infrastructure Rehabilitation. Although the MWC attained physical targets in maintaining roads
under IDA's Second Highway Maintenance Project, there is no sound framework for the public
sector to plan, contract, and supervise road maintenance, and for the private sector to carry it out
(para. 48).
58. The Gambia's fragile environment poses a serious constraint to long term economic development.
To manage natural resources in an environmentally sound manner, the Government made significant
progress in the following areas:
(a) Tourism. The Ministry of Tourism developed its strategy including an administrative action plan
to rationalize the use of the Tourism Development Area in 1989. As a follow-up, the Government
issued, in December 1991, new legal directives for the use of plots allocated to the development
of tourism.
(b) Fisheries. A Fisheries Act was enacted in August 1989, with a focus on resource management and
an action program. Government policy is to improve the monitoring and managing of fisheries
resources to prevent uncontrolled depletion.
(c) Agriculture. An agriculture diversification strategy and action plan, scheduled for January 1990,
has not been completed yet. IDA's Agriculture Services Project (Cr. 11093-GM), approved in
January 1993, calls for implementation of an action program for strengthening applied research and
extension services.
(d) The Environment. SAL II envisaged the preparation of an Environmental Action Plan. Although
with some delay, the Government adopted the Gambia Environmental Action Plan (GEAP)
prepared with the help of UNDP in 1992. The GEAP was strongly endorsed at the January 1993
Donor Meeting in Banjul. The Government is preparing implementation of a Natural Resource
Program with USAID's assistance, and Environment Capacity Building Technical Assistance with
IDA's assistance in the context of the GEAP.



17
F. Social Impact
59. The beneficial impact of program reforms on economic growth per capita has been limited to the
population at large mainly because of rapid population growth. Purchasing power, however, improved
as a result of maintaining monetary stability and improving competitiveness. Moreover, generous
external aid inflows contributed to an increase in disposable per capita income. Under SAL H public
expenditure on education and health were increased significantly which helped to implement sound
sectoral policies. As a result, the assess to health and education services increased over the past few
years, but much remains to be done to improve the quality of these services.
60. High population growth unmatched by slow improvements in agriculture productivity and crop
diversification added to pressure on migration to urban areas. Despite still slow changes in the pattern
of agriculture production in favor of higher value added products mainly in the Grater Banjul Area in
response to price liberalization, farmers incomes remain still low. This is attributed to: (i) a less-than-
adequate rainfall; (ii) a severe decline in world commodity prices, particularly groundnuts and cotton;
and (iii) inadequate farming techniques and practices.
Further improvements hinge on the better coverage and quality of agriculture services, access to credit,
and changes in land tenure.
61.  The current inflow of migrants to urban areas is creating additional economic problems and
contributes to the deterioration of living conditions of unemployed. Growth in re-export trade and
tourism have been insufficient to create job opportunities to absorb the urban unemployed. The
increasing urban population has strained the capacity of the already frail water and electricity supply.
Some 70% of urban dwellers are without piped water and toilet facilities.
6. Second Tranche Release
62. During SAL II negotiations, The Government and the Bank agreed that in addition to a satisfactory
performance review of overall macro-economic management, the second tranche release would be
contingent upon:
(a) completion of expenditure programs for the MOA, MWC, MOH, and MOE;
(b) elimination of subsidies to GPMB's groundnut operations, as of the 1989/90 groundnut Trade
Season, allowing GPMB flexibility in determining its own purchase price of groundnuts in line with
world market, and the adoption of measures to ensure the financial viability of GCU;
(c) completion of the restructuring of the MOA, including privatization of its commercial and
production activities;
(d) signature of satisfactory performance contracts with GAMTEL, SSHFC and GPTC; and
(e) achievement of agreed benchmarks in restructuring program for the GCDB.



18
63. The release of the second tranche was delayed by some 18 months because the program went off
track in late 1989. A series of supervision missions and intensive policy dialogue took place including
field visits by the Director of AF5 and the Division Chief of AF5CO in March 1991, in order to get the
program back on track. Based on the November 1991 SAL II supervision mission findings, conditions
for the second tranche release were met. The Bank informed the Government on January 28, 1992 that
the second tranche was available and the credit was fully disbursed by June 1992.
7. Credit Monitoring and Administration
64. Monitoring by the Government. The Government ERP Steering Committee (ERPSC) was
responsible for monitoring program implementation, while the Cabinet of Ministers was responsible for
assuring progress in implementation. To this end, the ERPSC prepared quarterly progress reports for
the Cabinet's information and decision making. As an independent governrnent policy advisory group,
the ERPSC performed satisfactorily. This performance was facilitated by valuable technical assistance
provided by the HIID to the Ministry of Finance and Trade (MFT, later the MFEA) under the Economic
and Financial Policy Analyses (EFAP), a USAID-financed project. The presence of renowned experts
under the EFAP's was crucial both in assisting macro-economic policy design and monitoring
implementation. The ERPSC was co-chaired by the Permanent Secretaries of the MFT and the Ministry
of Economic Planning and Industrial Development. Its members were the Governor of the CBG, the
Chief Executive of the NIB, a representative from the President's Office, the Permanent Secretary of the
MOA, and MEPID's Director of Planning, and the MFT's Deputy Permanent Secretary.
65.  Supervision by the Bank. Bank supervision and close coordination with the donor community
were essential in ensuring progress with program reforms. Some 70.5 staff weeks were devoted to
supervision both in the field and headquarters. There was staff continuity in program design and
supervision. The task manager who had appraised the program also supervised it in close coordination
with sector colleagues concerned with related policy reforms and investments. Close supervision in
ensuring strict adherence to second tranche release conditions was crucial in addressing issues related to
recurrent budget allocations and execution in the social sectors, mismanagement of public resources at
the Customs and GCDB, and the 1991 GPMB's financial fraud.
66. Disbursements and Procurement. As stipulated in the Credit Agreement, only eligible imports
were financed under SAL II. Both public and private sector eligible imports were reimbursed at 100%
of the CIF cost. Financing of imports of petroleum products and foodstuffs did not exceed 20% each
of the total credit disbursements. Direct imports by both public and private entities were subject to ICB
for contracts equal to or above US$250,000. A Special Account was opened at a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to facilitate credit disbursements. At credit effectiveness,
an initial deposit of a total equivalent to US$ 6 million was deposited in the account. Following the first
tranche disbursement, this amount was replenished against expenditure claims documented only by
customs invoices. This was exceptional and justified by the liberalized exchange rate system and the large
number of small transactions. Because the system was not transparent, it was often abused.
67.  Based on evidence that this exceptional procedure may have been abused, the Bank insisted on the
submission of proof of payment, i.e. a supplier receipts, as a requirement for disbursements after second
tranche release, and the Bank proposed a pre-shipment inspection. To avoid the costs of pre-shipment
inspection and to preserve the streamlined procedures with import documentation, the Government instead



19
agreed to a comprehensive audit of the operations and management of the Directorate of Customs and
Excise. This audit, financed by the British ODA and carried out by Her Majesty Customs and Excise,
disclosed numerous instances of revenue leakages and the abuse of development certificates.
Subsequently, as a corrective measure, the Bank insisted on the adoption and implementation of an action
plan for improving Customs performance in order to be able to make disbursements after release of the
second tranche. This was done and customs receipts increased significantly as a result.
68. Auditing and Counterpart Funds. Two audit reports were completed by independent auditors
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles. The CBG submitted the second audit report for the
period 1990 to June 1992 with almost a six month delay. The scope of audits was an assessment of: (i)
Fund Accountability Statements; and (ii) internal controls with regard to the mobilization and use of the
Special Account. With regard to the Fund Accountability Statements both reports were satisfactory.
Auditors concluded that "project income received and expenditures incurred for the two years are in
conformity with the cash basis of accounting". Funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange provided
by the Credit were duly deposited into a counterpart funds account and channelled to the budget.
Although the first audit report confirned that "the procedures and internal controls used to prepare the
statements of expenditures and related withdrawals for that period are adequate and operating effectively",
the second is qualified on the same account. To correct identified weakness in the system of internal
controls and accounting procedures, auditors recommended that 'a pre-printed voucher, detailing the
verification procedures in reviewing the supporting documentation and approving the expenditures on
goods, is completed and approved before the application for withdrawal is approved". The management
of CBG agreed to implement the recommendation.
8. Conclusions and Lessons of SAL II
69. Implementation of stabilization measures and adjustment reforms under SAL II were generally
successful. After a strong start, the program stalled in late 1989. The Government's commitment to
carry out reforms in public resource management, restructuring of GCDB, and privatization of GPMB
dwindled, and the second tranche release was delayed by about 18 months. Intensive supervision and a
stepped up policy dialogue helped retrack the program.
70. What worked? Implementation of program reforms supported by SAL II was successful in
maintaining macro-economic stability and in expanding incentives, preserving SAL I achievements.
These accomplishments included:
(a) Competitiveness. Competitiveness was maintained through the smooth functioning of the flexible
exchange rate system, further liberalization of the trade regime, and generally restrictive budgetary
and monetary policies.
(b) Budget discipline. The budget deficit (net of official transfers) as a share of GDP was reduced to
4.1% by 1991/92 compared with 16.8% in 1987/88. This was mostly achieved through containing
overall public expenditures, whereas performance on domestic resource mobilization was below
the country's potential.
(c) Restrictive monetary policy. A restrictive monetary policy stance was pursued through open market
operations to reduce excess liquidity coming from an increase in net foreign assets and the



20
Govermment repaying the banking system. The latter is attributed to budget improvements and
generous aid inflows.
(d) Sales tax. Impressive progress with the broad application of the national sales tax was a result of
a well planned effort, with appropriate sequencing and proper attention to building ownership for
the reform among all stakeholders. Measures implemented included: planned communications to
tax payers, staff training prior to system implementation, reliance on technical assistance for
implementation and further training "on-the-job", continuous monitoring and follow-ups, and
generally satisfactory tax enforcement. Lessons learned with the sales tax implementation can serve
for future reform implementation.
(e) Public investment programming (PIP). The PIP was instrumental in shifting limited public
resources to economic and social infrastructure, with the focus on maintenance to preserve the
value of fixed assets, and on new projects with high economic and social returns. Project
implementation and monitoring were the weakest aspect of the PIP because of inadequate
implementation capacity and poor communications among project units and planning units at line
ministries and the MFEA.
(f) Groundnut sector liberalization. Producer prices are now determined in line with world market
prices, and the export and processing monopolies of GPMB were abolished. Management
difficulties and political interferences differed implementation of this component and led to a
serious case of fraud in 1991.
(g) Public enterprise reform. On balance, the program was successful, with the exception of GPMB,
GCDB, and GUC, where action was finally taken, but after much delays and much pressure from
the donor community. Public enterprise reform covered an ambitious divestiture program and a
performance contract system which improved managerial autonomy and accountability for a number
of public enterprises. The public enterprise sector's involvement in the economy was further
reduced.
71.  Results were real and impressive in those stabilization efforts and adjustment measures whose
implementation required disengaging the Government from direct control and allowing markets to
respond. The Government's willingness to implement these measures and technical assistance responsible
for their designing and monitoring were also crucial for the success. However, too much reliance on
technical assistance increased dependance on it for monitoring and periodically analyzing the impact at
the level of MFEA (budget revenue and expenditures), and less so at the CBG (monetary aggregates and
the external sector). Generous aid inflows (averaging about 29% of GDP or about US$93 per capita
during the period) also contributed to this success, particularly as they facilitated the smooth functioning
of the floating exchange rate.
72.  What could have worked better?  While the Government proved quite effective in redefining the
respective roles of the public and private sectors, including setting up regulatory mechanisms, it was less
successful in reforms aimed at structural changes within the public administration itself and in enforcing
regulatory mechanisms. Program implementation fell short in putting in place measures which required
systematic and continuous institutional capacity building and management skills. These included:
(a) Public resource mobilization. Mobilization of domestic resources was below the country's
potential. Lack of enforcement of tax administration and the Government's lenient approach to tax



21
administration (customs tax evasion, including the widespread granting of discretionary customs
duty waivers) contributed to tax undercollection. Performance of the payroll and company tax was
unsatisfactory. Despite good sales tax performance, government revenues as a share of GDP
dropped to 20% in 1991 from about 23% in 1988.
(b) Budget reform. Progress was particularly modest in changing the pattern and the composition of
recurrent expenditure and in improving their efficiency based on developing public expenditure
programming (PEP). SAL II conditionality was instrumental in ensuring budget allocations to the
social sectors. PEPs prepared in 1991 for the key line ministries (MOA, MWC, MOE, and MOH)
with short-term consultant assistance were sufficient for the second tranche release, but not to
operationalize them because of unresolved budget process constraints.
(c) Civil service management. Civil service reform succeeded in establishing a framework and core
institutional capacity for central civil service management, but failed to create 'a leaner, affordable
civil service that is better managed, better trained and motivated, and more productive". Curtailing
the wage bill without additional retrenchment contributed to a further deterioration in real wages
and fell short of linking work compensation with performance. Behavior to compensate for
inadequate pay continues to flourish and limit effectiveness of the civil service: frequent travel
abroad, overinvoicing of other charges, salary supplements under donor-financed projects, or even
outright work outside the administration.
(d) Restructuring offour line ministries. Although formal restructuring of the MOA, the MWC, the
MOH, and the MOE is considered completed in general, the quality of the services which they
either manage (road and building maintenance) or provide (health, education, and agricultural
services) leaves much to be desired. Because of weak institutional capacity to design, implement,
and monitor sectoral policies, programs, and projects, these Ministries continue to rely on external
technical assistance. Weak programming and budgeting functions are inadequate to support their
complementary role to the private sector. A new fresh review of the role of the MWC is warranted
and improvements for the remaining Ministries will be useful.
(e) Restructuring of the GCDB. Political reticence to address this centerpiece of the financial sector
was one of the main problems in SAL II implementation. The bank was finally privatized in 1992.
This resulted from painstaking donor pressure, led by the Bank, to break a pattern of political
interference which had led to serious abuses of public resources in the form of granting some
unjustified soft loans to selected individuals and some public enterprises. The legacy is a
staggering stock of bad debt. Enforcement of the legislation to collect this debt is still lax.
73.  Lessons Learned.  The experience of policy reforms in The Gambia shows that implementation
was contingent on: (i) political commitment; (ii) close donor coordination and policy dialogue; (iii) Bank
and IMF collaboration; and (iv) reliance on technical assistance. The Gambia SAL I and SAL II also
show how attention to long term issues has been "crowded out' over the past years by stabilization issues,
which are both essential and unavoidable, but also bring a strong shorter term vision to the Bank's work.
74.  Political Commitment.  The Bank's expectations for the success of SAL II were based on
continuous strong support and commitment of H.E. The President and the Government to the program
reforms. Particularly important was Government commitment with the leadership of H.E. Sheriff
Saikouba Sisay, Minister of Finance, who was the key player in launching the ERP and in managing
successfully the reform process under SAL I. The high level political conmmitmnent to the reform



22
program, however, was uneven over the life of the program. It wavered in late 1989 and led to program
slippages. This coincided with the death of the H.E. Sheriff Saikouba Sisay. Political resistance to
policy reforms increased, especially those dealing with public resource mobilization and eliminating
economic rents associated with controlling some public enterprises, particularly GPMB, GCDB, and
GUC. Political resistance to and interference with policy reforms became more obvious where
institutions were weak and when stakeholders did not share a common understanding and consensus on
the rationale, objective, scope, and sequencing of reforms. However, the commitment to stabilization
and liberalization remained unequivocal throughout the program.
75. Donor Coordination and Policy Dialogue. When the Government commitment to policy reforms
weakened, donor coordination and aid leverage became instrumental in renewing government reform
efforts, particularly in late 1991. Donor coordination was specially effective in pushing for the
privatization of GCDB and the preparation of GPMB for privatization, in the leasing of GUC, and in
ensuring higher budget allocations to the social sectors. Nevertheless, donor coordination would be better
used to assist the Government in addressing long term development issues and providing a policy advise
rather than to prod weakening reform efforts. " Donors coordinated their financial aid effectively:
through SPA for budgetary assistance and through the three-year rolling PIP process for investment.
Coordination, however, was not as effective for technical assistance, particularly with regard to capacity
building.
76.  Bank and IMF Collaboration.   The Bank and IMF's monitoring of macro-economic and
structural reform performance in the context of the PFP mechanism were an important factor in staying
the reform course. Although the two institutions shared views on accomplishments in macro-economic
and financial performance (exchange rate policy, monetary and overall fiscal discipline, external reserves,
and positive interest rates), they often differed on performance of specific structural reforms and sectors.
Bank concerns with the structure and composition of public expenditure, restructuring of GCDB, and
privatizing GPMB were not always viewed by the IMF with the same importance or urgency. These
differences in views resulted in sending mixed signals to the Government.
77.  On balance, the Bank/IMF coordination has been a positive factor in supporting reform efforts, and
ways ought to be found to structure it now that the PFP process is over. Such a structure, however,
ought to permit a greater focus on long-term development issues than has been the case in the context of
programs which are essentially (and properly) concerned mostly with stabilization (restoring internal and
external balances). With its graduation from the ESAF and its accomplishments on the stabilization front,
The Gambia might well be an excellent case to define a new and enhanced longer term framework for
post-ESAF Bank/IMF collaboration.
78. Reliance on Technical Assistance. Implementation of policy reforms was facilitated by generous
technical assistance (about 32 % of total gross ODA disbursements) to compensate for Government's own
weak institutional capacity. Dedicated technical assistance, responsible for designing and monitoring the
impact of the reform program, and accustomed to work for a committed and forceful leader, was another
factor in this success at the program's inception. However, weak institutional capacity to design and
is
On this point, the Borrower observed that donor coordination would be better used to assist the Govemnuent in both
long term development and short tcrm progmrm support in a cohesive manner and to adopt a flexible policy terms of
nitoring and evaluating the conditionalities to be met'.



23
implement development programs and projects, including IDA's portfolio, seriously undermines the
sustainability of policy reforms. Technical assistance mostly substituted for and deferred the development
of the country's institutional capacity though with some notable exceptions (the sales tax and CBG).
Because of political resistance, technical assistance had limited capacity to implement tax reforms (except
for the sales tax) or to enforce transparent tax administration. SAL It was not designed to provide a
framework to ensure the effective use of the technical assistance provided by individual donors even
though it relied on it extensively.
79.  Refocusing on long term development issues. Since 1985, the attention of the Government and
its development partners has rightly been focused on short-term stabilization measures, without which
there would have been no future. With the macro-economic situation under control, the challenge is now
to address long term development issues - economic diversification, human resource development,
population growth, poverty, and the environment - even more forcefully. The Government has already
made progress in preparing national programs with donor assistance. In 1992, it completed three key
programs: (i) the Gambia Environment Action Plan (GEAP), agreed and supported under SAL H and
prepared with UNDP's assistance, which was strongly endorsed at a Donor Meeting in Banjul in February
1993; (ii) a National Population Policy (NPP) which was adopted by the Cabinet in June 1992; and (iii)
the Economic Management Capacity Building Program (EMCBP) prepared with UNDP's assistance which
was discussed at the October 1992 Donor Round Table Meeting in Geneva and provides a broad
framework to address institutional issues. Finally, the Government is currently in the process of
preparing, with UNDP's assistance, a draft Strategy for Poverty Alleviation (SPA). These issues define
a rich unfinished long term policy agenda for the continued partnership between The Gambia and the
Bank.
Outstanding Issues: The unfinished policy agenda
80.  Fragility. After almost eight years of adjustment supported by two SALs, the economy remains
fragile. Macro-economic management has not yet shifted from a crisis-driven structural adjustment
program to one oriented to sustainable growth. The reform program supported by SAL II led to some
diversification, but economic growth remains uneven and narrowly based. Although the environment for
private investment has improved, the absence of a reliable and predictable judiciary system and a weak
financial sector constitute serious constraints still. The country's vulnerability is further accentuated by
its weak capacity to mobilize domestic resources, to allocate them effectively for priority programs and
projects, and to monitor their use. Weak capacity limits the public sector's ability to provide efficient
social and infrastructure services and to facilitate private sector growth. Finally, inadequate domestic
resource mobilization, keeps the country unduly dependent on aid, thus contributing to its vulnerability
in today's changing aid climate.
81. Reducing the country's vulnerability hinges on maintaining macro-economic stability, undertaking
further reforms, and implementing clear growth-oriented sectoral strategies and policies in the medium
term. Policy reforms remain unfinished in the areas of: (i) domestic resource mobilization; (ii) the budget
process; (iii) civil service management; and (iv) the legal and judiciary systems. A proposed Economic
Management SECAL, which could couple policy conditionality and institutional development, will focus
on the remaining policy agenda and on capacity
82. Public Resource Management. Results in public resource management are fragile and pose a
serious challenge to the sustainability of macro-economic stability. Reduction in the budget deficit



24
resulted mainly from curtailing both recurrent and development expenditures, but efforts to improve
domestic resource mobilization remained below the country's potential. Although the budget deficit (net
of official transfers) as a share of GDP was reduced to about 4% in 1991/92, progress in introducing
public expenditure programming (PEP) to improve the efficiency of public resources remained
unsatisfactory. And SAL II did not address directly the related constraints in the budget process: weak
institutional capacity, inadequate budget accounting and coding, and lack of accountability in monitoring
budget execution. Neither did it contain a coherent institutional strategy and action plan to transform the
existing line-budget process into a PEP-based system. Finally, despite good results in implementing the
national sales tax, inadequate performance of the income tax and weak tax administration limited resource
mobilization.
83. Governanc. Although policy reforms under SAL II removed some sources of inefficiencies in
public resource allocation governance issues continue to affect donor and investor confidence. Market-
oriented policy reforms and public enterprise reforms (privatization of GCDB and pending privatization
of GPMB, as well the broadly applied performance contract system) were effective in reducing some
abusive practices. However, problems remain acute in areas where policy reforms failed to produce
results and public institutions remain weak: (i) non-transparent tax administration; (ii) slow process in
improving accountability in programming and monitoring public expenditures; and (iii) lack of adequate
incentives for civil servants, including inadequate human resource management and career development.
To address these issues requires policy reforms, a change in attitudes, and enforcement of the rule of law.
The Government started addressing some well-documented cases of resource leakages by implementing
the Customs Action Plan (March 1992) and by setting up the Asset Management Recovery Company to
collect GCDB's bad debt, as a result of donor pressure. If sustained and successful, these actions are
bound to send a strong message both to the people of The Gambia and the donor community about the
Government's determination not to tolerate public resource abuses in the future.



25
PART II. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 19
1) Background
84.  During the period 1975 to 1985, The Gambia faced sever difficulties which resulted in poor
economic performance and social development. This decline was largely due to erratic and unpredictable
weather conditions which affected the major cash crop, groundnuts, accompanied by other external shockcs
and inappropriate domestic policies. In order to reverse this trend and restore modest real growth in the
economy, The Gambian authorities designed and implemented a comprehensive Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) with the assistance of World Bank, IMF and other donors. One of the major financial
assistance package that was received during ERP was the first Structural Adjustment Credit. This was
in the form of a program assistance funded by World Bank, African Development Bank and other
bilateral agencies. The total credit amounted to about US$37 million and disbursements were made
during 1987/87 to 1988/89. Under SAL I, the major targets that were expected to be achieved were
confined within three broad areas, namely, improving economic and financial performance, deregulating
and liberalizing exchange rate and trade regimes and reforming and ensuing efficiency in the civil service.
85. After successfully negotiating and disbursing the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), The
Government of The Gambia (GOTG) negotiated for a second SAC with the World Bank. The original
Loan Agreement package consisted of an IDA amount, equivalent to about US$23 million on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity and a co-financing arrangement with the government of The
Netherlands whose contribution of a grant amount equivalent to US$2.5 million. Additional co-financing
arrangements were made with African Development Fund, a credit equivalent to US$6.0 million. The
additional resources were also mobilized through a SPA arrangement with United Kingdom (US$3.7
million) and European Economic Community (US$3.7 million). Subsequently, in 1991, Norway and
Switzerland entered into a cofinancing arrangement with an amount equivalent to US$3.3 million and USS
2.8 million respectively. The total package of the SAC 2 amounted to about US$45.0 million, of which
credit amount was US$29.0 million (65%) and grant was US$16.0 million (35%).
2) Disbursement Mode and Procurement
86. The proceeds of the proposed credits and grant (US$31.5 million) would be used exclusively for
the financing of eligible imports. These would then be reimbursed at 100 percent of CIF value. Public
and Private sector imports in accordance with normal rules and procedures for procurement would be
eligible. A special account would be established in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. At credit effectiveness date, an initial deposit of up to a total equivalent of US$6
million would be made into the respective accounts and replenished regularly. The latter will be made
on the basis of fully documented reimbursements applications, except for contracts under US$250,000
which would be on the basis of statements of expenditure. The Central Bank of The Gambia would be
responsible for maintaining all the main and supporting documents for review for supervision missions.
87. Imports by Government and the private sector would follow international competitive bidding for
amounts exceeding US$250,000. For amounts less that US$250,000, the Government would follow
19 TIir trwiscribes the Borrower's view in full.



26
prevailing public procurement procedures of seeking three quotations and the private sector would follow
established commercial practices and, wherever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from at least
two countries should be sought. Purchases from a single source could be used only, under situations
where propriety has to be maintained or where compatibility with existing equipment would necessitate
the use of standardized equipment and spare parts. Verification of merchandise is to be improved through
strengthening inspection procedures in terms of quality, quantity and price of shipments. Proceeds by
the IDA and ADB credits and cofinancing grants from Norway and Switzerland were disbursed on
reimbursement basis for eligible imports through the Central Bank. The U.K. and E.E.C. grants were
utilized for direct procurement of petroleum products.
3) Administration of Accounts and Audits
88. The local funds generated from the conversion of foreign exchange would be deposited into a
counterpart fund account in the Central Bank under the account name of the Ministry of Finance and
Trade. The funds would be channelled through the budget and allocated subject to normal public finance
expenditure procedures, the CBG will arrange for annual audit reports by auditors acceptable to IDA
within twelve months after credit effectiveness and annually thereafter.
4) Tranche Release and Action Program
89. The disbursements would be made in two tranches. The first at credit effectiveness date originally
expected to take place June/July 1989 and the second, after satisfactory completion of actions/conditions
agreed under the program. The disbursement of the second tranche was expected to take place eighteen
(18) months, i.e., about December 1990, after the disbursement of the first tranche. The release of the
second trance would be contingent upon 1) a satisfactory performance review of sound overall
management of the economy and higher growth with emphasis on an increasing role played by the private
sector through the creation of an enabling environment by the public sector and 2) implementation of
specific actions.
90.  The satisfactory performance review will focus on six major areas and these are:
1) achieve significant reductions in the fiscal deficit while improving efficiency in the delivery of
public services;
2) prepare and implement a medium-term strategy to raise efficiency in the groundnut processing and
marketing system. Also prepare an action program for promoting a commercial and competitive
environment for GPMB's and GCU's operations;
3) implement the administrative reform program;
4) achieve technical and financial efficiency gains for GPMB, GUC, and GPA using performance
contracts;
5) implement the enterprise divestiture program; and



27
6) achieve the physical targets for the infrastructure rehabilitation program agreed with IDA.
91. The specific actions contain four major areas and they are, 1) completion of public expenditure
programs for the Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Education, and Works and Communications; 2) as
of 1989/90 groundnut trade season, eliminate subsidies and allow GPMB to determine prices in line with
world market prices and adopt measures to ensure financial viability of the GCU; 3) completion of the
restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture including privatization of its commercial production activities;
and 4) signature of satisfactory performance contracts with GAMTEL, SSHFC, and GPTC; achievements
of agreed benchmark in the restructuring program for the GCDB.
92.  The credit effectiveness took place at the end of 1989 and the first tranche, a total equivalent of
about US$16.0 million was disbursed by end 1990. However, there was a significant delay both between
negotiations of SAL II and credit effectiveness and in the release of the second tranche as a result of the
appraisal made by IBRD, which reported that in some cases the actions and conditionalities were not
satisfactorily completed and in other cases the levels of attainment fell short of the anticipated target.
93. Excluding the macroeconomic performance targets, which were largely set by the IMF, the total
number of conditionalities and actions amounted to 37 of which 30 were related to the four major areas
and seven were general supportive actions. It can be easily argued, perhaps on hindsight, that the total
number of actions both in terms of magnitude and complexity to be carried out was excessive for a small
country like the Gambia. It is also perceived in The Gambia that in some instances the boundaries limits
for fulfilling conditionalities were not very clear from the Bank. In some few cases also a significant
difference existed between the Government and IBRD in relation to the interpretation of the agreed
actions which consequently led to misunderstanding and undue delays. A brief summary of the actions
taken and concerns raised are given in the following:
A. Macroeconomic Performance
94. With regard to the macroeconomic targets, The Gambia continued to perform well. A modest
growth in GDP has been recorded, despite adverse weather conditions which reduced the output level of
groundnuts to about 70,000 Metric Tons (MT) between 1990 and 1993. Tourism, despite recession, and
the re-export trade, despite uncertainties in the sub-region, continued to show steady growth. Other
sectors such as Transportation, Construction, Communications, also contributed significantly to expansion
in output. This was attained within tolerable levels of inflation. Fiscal deficit (excluding foreign grants)
and the Current Account deficit (excluding official transfers) were consistently brought down year by year
to match the targets set. However, it must also be pointed out here that although fiscal deficit was
declining as a percentage of GDP, performance in revenue enhancement was relatively weaker than
curtailment in expenditure growth. External debt arrears were paid off in 1990 and debt service ratio has
been reduced. There has been a significant build up of foreign exchange reserves. Market determined
exchange rate and interest rate policies continue to be in operation. Overall, the Gambia economy
performed reasonably well and achieved many of the targets set.
B. Parastatal Reform and Divestiture Programs
95.  With regard to the targets set for parastatal reform and divestiture programs, a number of important
decisions were made and structural benchmarks were met. The Performance Contracts for GAMTEL,



28
GPTC and SSHFC were signed by early 1990. Third year targets for GUC, GPA and GPMB were
promptly reviewed and agreed with IDA. However, further developments in the leasing arrangements
for GUC and the privatization of the GPMB did not allow for strict adherence to all the tenets of the third
year performance contract targets for these two public enterprises. The Gambia River Transport (GRI)
Company was liquidated. A report assessing the state of the GCDB which includes a rapid credit
recovery scheme and restructuring and divestment plan was prepared by early 1990. The performing
assets of the GCDB were eventually sold to Meridian Bank BAIO in 1992 and the Assets Management
and Recovery Company to establish recover the non-performing assets of the Bank. After a feasibility
study completed by end 1989, GNIC was sold to the public in March 1991. The sale of Kanifing brick
plant was completed in late 1991. The NTC was also sold in late 1991.
96. The first phase of the divestiture programs is now completed with the sale of GPMB/GOPMAC
in July 1993. After obtaining minimum amount of refurbishment assistance and recruitment of technical
assistance, the GPMB has now sold to Alimenta SA of Switzerland in partnership with the Gambia
Cooperative Union. The privatization of the Kotu Workshop, which was targeted to be sold by end 1989,
was delayed due to a lack of interest from private buyers and finally leased in 1992. In the review of
GUC operations, decision was taken to operate it under and 'Operating Lease' scheme within a holding
company which actions were effected in 1993. Delays were experienced in the completion of a study on
the future role of the Livestock Marketing Board (LMB). However, the study, after a number of
amendments was finally accepted in 1992, and actions taken to remove the monopoly for Livestock
Marketing from the LMB and prepare it for privatization.
97. With regard to the supporting actions, several appraisal studies and promotional activities were
carried out in agriculture, horticulture, fisheries and tourism. A revised Development Act was enacted
in 1988 and a revised Investment Guide completed in 1992 and a feasibility study on better utilization of
the present Kanifing Industrial Estate and possibilities of expansion into a second phase has been
undertaken with UNIDO assistance.
C. Public Administration Reform
98. A Personnel Management Office (PMO) was established in December 1987 as part of the
Administrative Reform Program (ARP) under the ERP. Under the second SAL further reforms were
identified and stipulated within the action program. A staff inspection program which assesses work
efficiency and employee utilization rate was carried out in 9 agencies representing approximately 20
percent. The low coverage was mainly due to lack of staff in forming staff inspection teams. This led
to the formation of only one team as compared to three initially envisaged to carry out this task.
Strengthening of the Ministry of Education, reorganization of the Ministry of Works and
Communications, the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture with the privatization of its commercial
and production activities, the implementation of an action program for the Health ministry, which
includes the devolvement of referral hospitals from the ministry were all completed satisfactorily but with
some delays. A performance based staff appraisal system was introduced but its effectiveness has been
marginal owing to difficulties in implementing it fully. However, between grades 3 and 6, the
introduction has been easier and the scheme is operating satisfactorily. Supporting actions in terms of
the formation of committees on training and the implementation of the Public Service Act was completed.



29
D. Agricultural Policy Reforms
99. With regard to the agricultural sector, the actions to be taken under SAL II, mainly relate to the
purchasing, processing and marketing of groundnuts. The two main agencies involved with this are
Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) and Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB). A review to
streamline the operations of GCU was completed and GCU did take some measures such as to reduce
internal costs, withdraw from marketing other crops except groundnuts. A Gambian Environmental
Action Program was prepared and launched in January 1993.
E. Public Expenditure Programs
100. In order to allocate resources rationally and effectively to priority areas, four key line Ministries,
namely, Agriculture, Education, Health, and Works and Communication, were selected to prepare Public
Expenditure Programs. This programming exercise is to be based on a three year rolling forward
principle. With the conscious efforts of the Gambian staff, UNDP's financial and technical assistance
and World Bank's consultancy assistance this exercise was completed in December 1991, a year later than
planned. It is also worth noting that this preliminary exercise was well received during a Donor's Round
Table meeting held late 1992, in Geneva and a number of donors expressed their intention of supporting
future development in this area.
F. PIninntErog[am
101. Another area of agreement that was reached between Gambian authorities and the World Bank was
that the budget and the PIP will be reviewed jointly by both parties. The gradual increase in the share
of education and health budgets and the inclusion of projects based on strict efficiency criteria adopted
under ERP are some of the important benchmarks that were stipulated to be observed. In this regard it
is worth mentioning that overall, the government made a valiant efforts to meet these standards, although
on particular items of spending, especially on the Budget some slippages did occur. A related area was
the strengthening of monitoring and evaluation of the projects, quarterly reporting systems originating
from line ministries to central project management unit at the Ministry of Finance were to be introduced.
Although project implementation rates improved over the years due to more project site visits and better
coordination, the quarterly reporting system did not continue to operate smoothly. Except for a few
projects many of the others abandoned the reporting requirements. Another important factor that
hindered the rate of implementation was the low level of capacity in terms of human resources.
5) Constraints and Lessons Learnt
102. From the outset it must be emphasized that the Government of The Gambia was totally committed
to adhere to the regulations outlined in the procurement and disbursement procedures and satisfy all the
benchmarks and actions set forth in the Second Structural Adjustment Credit agreement. It is gratifying
to note that by and large all the targets were met with varying degree of success. The release of the
second tranche was delayed by about 18 months and although we agree that part of the blame should be
borne by the government which on occasions allowed certain slippages to occur, it is equally felt that
other factors were also responsible in slowing down the disbursement process. It must be also stressed
that in a number of instances the government went further and took bolder initiatives than what was



30
stipulated in the agreement. Examples of such are the implementation of Customs Action Plan which
resulted after the investigation by external auditors from Her Majesty's Customs of the U.K. and taking
the option of complete divestiture of liquidation for some parastatals instead of strengthening efficiency
through the introduction of performance contracts.
103. The first constraint that inevitably comes to mind is the capacity to implement all targets set forth
in the action program in a timely manner. It is often quoted that The Gambia's impressive performance
in terms of macroeconomic stability is not matched by its performance in sectoral and structural reforms.
The obvious reason for this is that stability mainly needs discipline while structural reforms need adequate
institutional and manpower capacity. The lack of both institutional and manpower capacity has impeded
the rate of progress that could have been made in many areas. A good example of this is the low level
of achievement in staff inspection program in the civil service due to shortages of qualified personnel to
form inspection teams to effectively carry out this exercise and capacity to implement sectoral programs
and projects in a timely manner.
104. As stated earlier, some of the delays that occurred were due to external factors outside the control
of government. They delay in selling Kotu workshop was mainly due to insufficient number of buyers
and therefore, lack of competition in the market. It is obvious that such a situation only leads to bids
offered at low prices. A similar situation arose in the case of GPMB and to obtain a good price a
minimum amount of refurbishment has to be carried out prior to the offer for sale.
105. It is regrettable to note that although in some areas donor intervention and coordination worked
well, in a number of other cases this was weak and had lower levels of impact. It is also our experience
that in a multi-donor type of credit like SAL II, due to differences in disbursement procedures and cross
conditionalities to be satisfied, the disbursement of such loans will be cumbersome. Therefore, a great
deal of care and attention is needed in the execution stage and as such one has to question whether the
level and magnitude of existing capacity is adequate to carry out the task in a smooth manner. This also
calls for increased coordination and appreciation of concerns of other multi-lateral donors supporting the
program. Notwithstanding the above fundamental concerns remain to be addressed from the SAL II
program that are of prinary importance for the future prospects of The Gambia. These include timely
recovery of non-performing assets of the GCDB by the AMRC, public resource management and civil
service productivity, efficiency and effectiveness through capacity building. Continued high commitment
to these concerns is recognized to be crucial to the attainment of such important development objectives
and strategies as the poverty alleviation program, social sector program, the environmental action plan
and providing the necessary transparent and objective enabling environment for the development and
expansion of the private sector.
106. Whilst the public enterprise divestiture and rationalization program registered very commendable
results, it can be noted that The Government, The World Bank and other bilateral donors did not hold
sufficient dialogue with regards to reinforcing government's surveillance and monitoring capacity and role
with regards to the operation of privatized enterprises and the private sector vis-a-vs consumer interests.
For instance, Government's surveillance of the insurance industry and providing oversight over quality
and standards within the economy in general are weak. Some of these are now being addressed with
IDA.
107. Whilst the programming and rationalization of the Public Investment Program with established
criteria for the undertaking public investment improved the quality of project selection, efficiency and
productivity of projects, the dialogue with the Bank pertaining to certain sectors failed to address pressing



31
concerns. For instance, the dialogue concerning Yundum Airport was blurred by the insistence on the
redesign of Phase IV project being financed by the African Development Bank to the detriment to finding
solutions to the existing physical constraints impairing the realization of the full potential of the Airport.
108. Finally, it is felt that although the procurement and disbursement procedures were well understood
and carried out without much difficulty, the main problems arose in the attainment of benchmarks set in
the action program. Approximately 30 conditionalities and 7 supporting actions were included in the
action program. Such a magnitude in our opinion, on hindsight, is felt to be excessively high. It is also
felt that in some cases, what was to be achieved was not clearly demonstrated and understood. The
popular on that springs to mind is the PEP's. Although the initial attempt was mad in November 1990
by the Gambian staff, the methodology used was not acceptable to the Bank without no clear guidelines
or other Country experiences provided to help the process and the exercise had to be carried out again.
Only after a year, the methodology was clearly understood by both the Gambian staff and the World
Bank. However, impressive efforts made by the Gambian team of staff drawn from the four key line
ministries and the Ministry of Finance together with the financial and technical assistance of UNDP and
World Bank consultants finally completed this exercise by end 1991. Another concern was the inclusion
of for example the benchmark relating to the performance in terms of physical targets to be achieved
under the second highway maintenance project as part of SAL II action program. This was felt to be out
of place and should have been treated within a Country Implementation Review exercise.
6) Concluding Remarks
109. As we graduate out of the Structural Adjustment Loans (SAL's) and move into a new area of
Sectoral Adjustment Loans (SECAL), due care and consideration should be taken in the design and
formulation of future programs. The concerns raised and problems encountered under SAL I and II,
especially on the magnitude and type of conditionalities, must be seriously evaluated. In the future, we
must ensure that the procurement and disbursements are operated smoothly, repayments are made on time
and absorptive capacity is adequate to execute the program, and benchmarks are realistic and achievable.
Above all, once we agree on a program, as the in previous occasions, we continue to show our
willingness to carry out the tasks and responsibilities set forth in the credit agreement and complete our
goals on time.






PART III. CREDIT DATA AND ANNEX






33
PART III: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT SAL 11
Credit Data
(USSM)
Original          Disbursed          Cance(lld           Rep id           Outstanding
.... ..........................  . ............  .........  ---------..... ...........
Credit No.2032-GM                 23.00             24.01               0.00              0.00                25.23
Original Credit Dates                   Actual or Re-estimated
-- - - - -- - - - -                    ... . . .   .. . . . . .
Initiating Nemorandum                            Oct. 87                              Jun. 88
Letter of Development
Policy                                    JuL. 88                              Jul. 88
Negotiations                                     Oct. 88                              Apr. 89
Board Approval                                   Nov. 88                              Jun. 89
Credit Agreement                                                                      Jun. 89
Effectiveness                                    Jul. 89                              Aug. 89
Credit Closing                                   Jun. 91                              Jun. 92
Final Disbursements                              Oct. 91                              Aug. 92
Cumulative Credit Disbursements
FY90              FY91               FY92               FY93
..............-----                ...... ...         ..... ....
(i)   Planmed                                       11.50             23.00              23.00                23.00
Cii)  Actual                                        11.33              11.33             23.60                24.01
(iii) (ii) as X of (i)                              98.50             49.30             102.60               104.80
Mission Data
No.  of            No.  of            Staff             Date of
month, Year          Weeks            Persons            Weeks              Report
............     ---------         .....  ......      ... ....  ...      ...... ....
Preparation                    Jan. 88                  3                  7                21           Mar. 88
Preappraisal                   may  88                  3                  4                12           Jun. 88
Appraisal                      Sep. 88                  2                  4                 8           Oct. 88
Pre-Supervision/(PFP)/1       Aug. 89                   2                  1                 2
Supervision 1/(PFP)/1         Jan. 90                   3                  2                 4          Apr. 90
Supervision II/(PFP)/1        Jul. 90                   3                  1                 3          Aug. 90
Supervision III               Nov. 90                 1.6                  1               1.6
Supervision IV                 Feb. 91                3.6                  1               3.6          Apr. 91
Supervision V                 Apr. 91                   3                  1                 3
Supervision VI                Nov. 91                   2                  2                 4
Supervision Vll/(PFP)/1       Feb. 92                   2                  2                 4
Completion                    Oct. 92                   2                  1                 2           Nov. 92
Staff Inputs
FY88     FY89     FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93
LENP     64.3      1.4
LENA              30.4
LENN              10.1
SPN                1.1     18.1      16.1     15.2      2.9
SPN/PFP /1         1.0      5.3       5.7      1.3      0.0
SPNT                                  1.8      2.0
/1  SAL if was also supervised in conjunction with PFP (4-6th) during 1989-1992.



THE GAMBIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDrr (SAL E) POLICY MATRIX
Inpicnutation Matrix
POUCY AREAS AND OBJEClVES                 PROGRESS UNDER SAL I                      KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN                                  IAPLEMENTATION REVIEW
UNDER SAL U
1. MACROUCONOMIC POUCY
E1a. RFh- Refom
To encouge eansion of econodiec            Flexible exchange rMe  am adopted in      Mai-enance of dhe l ibd exdca    rate syem.    (a) On-going. TMe Corl Act repealed.
activiy by the pivat setar, divernifia.   JaImy 19U6.
of th. economy, export growth. and
ecoOie efficieny
2.      Reen     i  of tbe Fincil Sec0ro
To etore ruieil vabiity and _agen          Agricultura Dovelapmed Bank cloed         Iuqmdniein   of coaipehensle actio program to      (b) Doca after sbatia delays. See
spport for developnem  iviles. (For        down in 1976. lerim fi6nial               rhabilita GCDB.                                    GCDB.
mom detail. ue Finacial Restcruting of     munrcuing of GCDB impleeaerd.
G_mbia Conmuaci and Develapat  ankw
(OCDB), ud  Pubei Sector M uaasemeA,
bebw)-
. PUBLICRESOttCEMANAGEMENT
I1.     Dome" Resoure Mobilizatin
To inWrove fical per_rmsce and             Revied income tax law enseted in          Monitor the inpact of de evisd income tax oe fsa    (a) Asesmet competd, but
fficiency in ax admninstive                Febnuy 1988 and inylenieid on Marcd  _ veg                                                       -      y6db1low-up.
31, 191.
New Sals Tax Act enacled in              New saks tax wa adopted at dhe imaport lewvl in     0i) Don. Ibnylemwi
April 191.                               July 19U8. k will b extended to oher major              ory.                                         ,  D
ctiviies. Impact o fisal mveaund econNW   i
atvity will be cbloy monitd. _ d
0
Strengthen tax dwnuaboa. In padcular, mtninxe   (c) Asemme  of the inyc on fiscal
reenue eakag  fescn the smsclaaaification of imponrs   rvenue doe. Tax ad _n ioa
as dity-free itan                                      weak.
Reduce subsidies to public ewetpnses.              (d) Direct "ibsidica to GPMB and GUC
elminated.



35              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
2~~~3 3d{, i   I                                  1111
.   ii 3iI*                      11.11 1         'l  Ii l    l|
.      E I                {|          t            i-. 
'   2        12d                ;-o         &.          &



THE GAMBIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL 1) POLCY MATRIX
Imnplementation Matrix
POLICY AREAS AND OBJECTIVES               PROGRESS UNDER SAL I                     KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN                                 IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
UNDER SAL n
To reduce debt ervice burden, inprove     External  mars were reduced and          No external borrowing for projects/progrmu not in  (a) Arrer elimninated in 1990. Borrowing
profile of externel public debt, and      rescheduling agreemena were concluded    the agreed PIP. Moratorium on governnet lon           on conceaaonal terma was fully
strengthen external debt management.      with the Paris and London Clubs. New     guarantees for public and private bonovwers, except as  observed.
external borrowing on concessional terms    agreed with IDA, will be mainaned. No borrowing
wil be undrtakea on non-concessioal terms in the I -
12 years' maurity rnge and/or at other than highly
conceaskmal terms. Strict linits on public sector
sbort-tem debt outstanding will be maintained. All
non-rescheduled external payment arrears wiU be
elininated.
m. AGRICULTURAL POLICIES AND INSTIJTIONS
Prices/Marketin/Inotut SupplV and Credit
To stimulate production and exports, and  Cereals pricing, nurketing, snd trade, and    Liberalized policies will be maintained. Fertilizer  (a) On-going. Fully observed.
improve efriciency in produce             the supply and distribution of seeds,    obtained as a grant will be subject to competitive
marketing/input supply.                   fertilizers, and other inputs were       bidding in term  as agmeed with IDA.
liberalized.
Review of Ministry of Agriculturc's      bitial restructuring steps adopted in July 19S. Otber   (b) Done.
functions undertaken.                   tneamres will be inplemenred as per action program
agreed with IDA.
Ina steps of action progrm to            Inyiemed subwequent steps of action ptuorm  as    (c) Done.
srenghecn ytaem of agricultaul itput     agreed with IDA in July 1933.
credit inplenmeitd.
0
xX
I-
Fh



THE GAMBIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL 11) POLICY MATRIX
Implementation Matrix
POLICY AREAS AND OBJECTIVES                PROGRESS UNDER SAL I                      KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN                                 IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
UNDER SAL H
2.      Groundnut Pricine
To achieve an efficient pattern of         Producer price has been gradually brought    Eliminate subsidies to GPMB. Allow GPMB          (a) Subsidies to GPMB eliminated.
production.                                into line with world market price adjusted    flexibility in determining its own purchase price of  Alignment with world price done.
for procesaing, marketing, and           groundnuts in like with world and dotedtic market
tranportation cots. Subsidies reduced,   conditions at time of procurement and GPMB'a own
cost struture. Conditionality of Second Tranche
Release.
3.      Groundnut Processing and Marketins
To maximizc efficiency -- thereby minimize    Three-year performance contract signed  Monitor and adopt remedial actions to ensure       (a) GPMB is being privatized.
costs - in order to protect rural incomes,  with GPMB and compliance with            adherence by GPMB to performance contract targets.
Efficiency improvements to be sought in the   revenue/cost targets closely monitored.
operations of all agents involved in the
system: GPMB, the Gambia River                                                       Implement short-term action program for restructuring   (b) Done.
Transport Company (GRI), and the Gambia                                              GCU, as agreed with IDA. GCU has already
Cooperative Union (GCU). (See also                                                   withdrawn from several activities. In the 1988/9
GCDB, Public Sector Management, below).                                              Trade Season, the numnber of cooperative societies was
reduced. GCU is also adopting measures to reduce its
own internal costs.
Linked to the above objectives, increase                                             Prepare and implement medium-term action program    (c) Done.
competition in anl aspects of groundnut                                              for promotion of GPMB's and GCU's operations
proceasing nd m rketing in the medium                                                along commercial lines and within a competitive
term,                                                                                environment.
0 Z
4:-
0
OQ1
tD 



THE GAMBIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIf (SAL 11) POLICY MATRIX
ImplerMentation Matrix
POUCY AREAS AND OBJECTIVES                PROGRESS UNDER SAL I                    KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN                                IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
UNDERSAL U
IV. PUBUC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
Public Admiaisqion
e    Personnel Policies
To increase efficiency in the provision of  A comprehensive Administrative Reform  Pay and grading reform implemented in October    (a) Done.
public service. Improve morale, reward    program (ARP) was prepared, including   1988. Wage adjustments implemened in January
performance, and promote the efficient use    actions to improve personnel rmnagemcnt,   1989.
of sarce human and financial resources   training and budgetary procedures, and a
pay and grading rmeorm. A Personnel     In April 1989, a computerized payroll system was  (b) Payroll system computerized. Staff
Managemernt Office (PMD) was            introduced, to facilitate budget preparation and      performance reviews partially
established to guide the implementation of    control, payments, and review of staff performance  imnplemneted.
the ARP                                 via-a-vis rewards.
OD
Develop and implement a performace-based stff    (c) Done. To strngthen application yet to
apprisa system.                                      be donc.
Develop and inroduce a saff inspectioa progrm.    (d) Done. Works is being done to
sareten the applcation.
b.    Rescturin/Snthenins Ministries
To bring the scope of Governmnent irAo line    Study of Ministr of Agriculure's   Implemnt restzucturing program as agreed with IDA,   (a) Done.
with the production base of the economy,  functions, structure, and saffing       including privatization of comrnceial and production                                              >
and focus its functions on support for    compileted.                             activities. Conditionality of Second Tranche Release 
private sector activity and strtegic planning
and monitoring of the development process.   Reorganization of the Ministry of Works  Complet reorEganiztion program.               (b) Done. Perfoamance is unsatisfactory.     -4
and Coumnunication started.
Strengthen Minitrq of Health as per action progrm  (c) On-going.
agreed with IDA.



THE GAMBIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL 11) POLICY MATRDX
Implernentation Matrix
POLICY AREAS AND OBJECTIVES               PROGRESS UNDER SAL I                    KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN                                IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
UNDER SAL H
Strengthen Ministry of Education as per action    (d) On-going.
prg-ra being prepared.
Prepare and imnplement action progam for          (e) Done.
tetwuturing the Miniatry for Local Government and
L nds.
2.      Public Enterprise Reform
a.    Rationalization/Divestiture Policv
To reduce the scope of Government's       Completion by the (NIB) of detailed     Govemnment has offered for purchase by the public its   (a) Done.
financial and nunagerial involvement in  divestiture/rationalization plans for period    share in Banjul Breweries, the African Hotel, Seagull
conunercial ventures.                     1987/88. NIB now represented and active    Coldstores, snd the National Trading Corporation of
on the Boards of all public enterprises.  The Gambia. Conditionality of Second Tranche
Release.
Government has sold its holdings in the  In March 1989, Government sold its holdings in the  (b) Done.
Standard Chartered Bank, CFAO (a        Nyambal Sawmill.
trading comnpany), and Old Atlantic Hotel.
As leasing agreement was concluded with
a foreign comnpany to operate the Atlantic
Hotel.
b.      Performance Contract
OQ >4
To inmprove efficiency of public enterpises.    Performance contracts signed with GPMB,   Review perfornmnce on a quarterly basis. Second-  (a) Done.                           ON
GUC, and the Garnbia Port Authority.    year targets have been reviewed and agreed with IDA,                                          0
First-year perforntnce reviewed as a basis   and contracs have been signed. Sign third-year                                           eh
for preparing econd-yeartargetS.        targets of performace contracta. Conditionality of
Second Tranche Releas.



THE GAMBIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL 11) POLICY MATRIX
Implementation Matrix
POLICY AREAS AND OBJECTIVES                PROGRESS UNDER SAL I                      KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN                                  IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
UNDER SAL 11
Sign performce contracts with the Gambia Public    (b) Done.
Tmnsport Corporation (GPIC), Gambin
Telecommunications Company ULmited (GAMTEL),
and Social Security and Housing Fuuawte Corporation
(SSHFC). Conditionality of Second Tranche Release.
Undertake study to determine the future role and   (e) Done.
ownership modality of the Livestock Marketing Board
(LMB), the only public enterprise not yet under a
performance contract.
c      Restructuring of the Gambia Commercial Development Bank (GCDB)
To restore GCDB's financial health, which  Interim financial restructuring undertaken    Implement comprehensive action program for      (a) GCDB was sold to Meridian Bank
is crucial to the stability of the financial  pending recommendations of a           rehabilitation of GCDB, prepared on the basis of    in June 1992. An Asset Management
system and the day-to-day operations of the    comprehensive diagnostic study. Interim  diagnostic study completed in June 1988. Managerial    Recovery Company (AMRC) established           4
economy as well as the longer term         measures included: (I) a ten-fold increase   and operational measures will precede further financial  to collect non-performing loans. Action     0
diversification and growth.                in the GCDB's authorized capitol from D6    restructuring. Govemment has already replaced the  to collect the bad loans is trailing.
to D60 million; (ii) the opening of its   GCDB's Board of Directors and a new Managing        Perfom ance under the Managed
share capital so prospective foreign      Director is being recruited.                       Fund was disappointing.
institutions and private domestic investors;
(iii) conversion of an outstanding IDA
credit equivalent to D4.4 million into
government equity in GCDB; (iv)
conversion of D35 million of loans and
advances from GCDB into a long-term
interest-free subordinated loan; (v)
eatablishment of a Managed Fund into
which some D78 million of govemnment-                                                                                                        ooz
guaranteed loans extended by GCDB have                                                                                                        (  t-
been tranaferred, for subsequent collection                                                                                                    -4
by GCDB on Govemrnent's behalf on a                                                                                                           0
commiuision basis.



