Page  1
       NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2032 GM
               Norwegian Grant Agreement
        (Second Structural Adjustment Program)
                        between
              THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
            as Administrator of Development
                Aid Funds Provided by
         The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
               of the Kingdom of Norway
                Dated December 19, 1990
       NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2032 GM
               NORWEGIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1990, between THE
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the Gambia) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the
Administrator) of the Grant (as hereinafter defined)
provided by the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of The
Kingdom of Norway (the Ministry);
     WHEREAS the Gambia has requested the assistance of
the International Development Association (the
Association) and the Ministry in the financing of the
urgently needed imports required under the Gambia's
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
achieve structural adjustment of the Gambia's economy
(the Program) referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement dated June 22, 1989 between
the Gambia and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement);
     WHEREAS the Association has extended a Credit for
the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, and the Ministry has
authorized the Administrator to extend to the Gambia for
the same purpose a grant out of the Ministry's
development aid funds (the Grant) to assist the Gambia on
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
     WHEREAS by an agreement, dated December 19, 1990,
between the Ministry and the Association (the
Page  2
Administration Agreement), the Ministry has requested the
Association, and the Association has agreed, to
administer the Grant in accordance with the provisions of
that agreement;
     WHEREAS the Gambia acknowledges that the financial
assistance extended to the Gambia under this Agreement
shall be considered as part of the bilateral development
aid extended by the Ministry to the Gambia; and
     WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Grant to the
Gambia in support of the Program, on the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definition
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
     (a)  the term "Association", wherever used in the
General Conditions, means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant
to the Administration Agreement, except in the provisions
"member(s) of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02
(b) and 6.02 (e);
     (b)  the term "Borrower", wherever used in the
General Conditions, means the Gambia;
     (c)  the term "Development Credit Agreement"
wherever used in the General Conditions, means this
Agreement;
     (d)  the term "Credit", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the Grant extended to the Gambia under
this Agreement;
     (e)  the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the
General Conditions, means the Trust Account opened by the
Administrator on its books in the name of the Gambia to
which the amount of the Grant is credited;
     (f)  in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association
acting in its own capacity;
     (g)  in Section 9.06 (c) the term "Closing Date"
means the closing date set forth in Section 2.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement; and
     (h)  Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02,
4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02, and 12.05
are deleted.
     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement,
unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Development Credit Agreement" means the
Development Credit Agreement, dated June 22, 1989,
Page  3
between the Republic of the Gambia and the Association,
for the Program, as such Development Credit Agreement may
be amended from time to time; and such term includes the
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to the Development Credit Agreement, and all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
     (b)  "Norwegian kroner" and "KNR" mean the currency
of the Ministry.
     Section 1.03. In all Articles, Sections and
Schedules of the Development Credit Agreement explicitly
incorporated into this Agreement, the references to the
"Borrower", the "Association", the "Credit", the "Credit
Account", and the "Special Account" are deemed to be
references to the Gambia, the Administrator, the Grant,
the Trust Account and the Norwegian Special Account.
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Grant
     Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to
the Gambia, on the terms and conditions herein set forth
or referred to, a grant in an amount of thirty-five
million Norwegian kroner (KNR 35,000,000), or such other
amount as shall have been made available by the Ministry
to the Administrator for this purpose pursuant to the
Administration Agreement; provided that no withdrawal
shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to
pay amounts to or on the order of the Gambia in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant unless the Administrator shall have been satisfied
after an exchange of views described in Section 3.01 of
the Development Credit Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Administrator: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Gambia in the carrying out of the
Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement have been taken.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be
withdrawn from the Trust Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of the goods required for the Program and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
     (b)  The Gambia shall, for the purposes of the
Program, open and maintain, in dollars, a special deposit
account (the Norwegian Special Account) in the Central
Bank of the Gambia, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Administrator, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into and
payments out of the Norwegian Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the Schedule to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE III
                    Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. Articles III and IV of, and Schedules
1 (excluding paragraph 3), 2 and 3 to, the Development
Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this
Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein.
                      ARTICLE IV
             Representative of the Gambia;
Page  4
          Transfer of Rights and Obligations
     Section 4.01. The Minister responsible for Finance
and Economic Affairs of the Gambia is designated as the
representative of the Gambia for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Gambia:
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
          The Quadrangle
          Banjul
          The Republic of the Gambia
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               FINSEC                       61170
               The Republic of the Gambia
     For the Administrator:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                         82987 (FTCC)
     Section 4.03. In accordance with the provisions of
the Administration Agreement, the rights and obligations
of the Administrator under this Agreement may be
transferred to the Ministry. The Gambia accepts and
agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the
Gambia to that effect, the Ministry shall, ipso facto,
from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in
all rights and obligations of the Administrator under
this Agreement as if the Ministry were an original party
to this Agreement, without any further action or
formality required on the part of any party and, from
such date, the Administrator shall cease to have any
rights or obligations as a party under this Agreement.
                       ARTICLE V
                     Effectiveness
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective
as of the date first above written, and shall continue in
effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the
parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their
obligations under this Agreement.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their representatives thereunto duly authorized,
have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
               THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
Page  5
               By /s/ Ousman Sallah
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                 as Administrator of Development
                    Aid Funds Provided by
                    The Royal Ministry of Foreign
                    Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway
               By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa
                      SCHEDULE  1
               Norwegian Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required for the Program and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount in U.S. dollars equivalent to ¦KNR 1,500,000á to
be withdrawn from the Trust Account and deposited into
the Norwegian Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Norwegian Special Account shall
be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory
evidence that the Norwegian Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Norwegian Special
Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Gambia shall furnish to the Administrator a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Administrator
shall, on behalf of the Gambia, withdraw from the Trust
Account and deposit into the Norwegian Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Gambia shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)                    For replenishment of
                                 the Norwegian Special
                                 Account, the Gambia
                                 shall furnish to the
                                 Administrator requests
                                 for deposits into the
                                 Norwegian Special
                                 Account at such
                                 intervals as the
                                 Administrator shall
                                 specify.
        (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
             request, the Gambia shall furnish to the
             Administrator the documents and other
Page  6
             evidence required, pursuant to paragraph 4
             of this Schedule, for the payment or
             payments in respect of which replenishment
             is requested. On the basis of each such
             request, the Administrator shall, on behalf
             of the Gambia, withdraw from the Trust
             Account and deposit into the Norwegian
             Special Account such amount as the Borrower
             shall have requested and as shall have been
             shown by said documents and other evidence
             to have been made out of the Norwegian
             Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator
from the Trust Account in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4. For each payment made by the Gambia out of the
Norwegian Special Account, the Gambia shall, at such time
as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to
the Administrator such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Administrator shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Norwegian Special Account:
   (a) if, at any time, the Administrator shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
the Gambia directly from the Trust Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
   (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment,
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Program, shall equal the equivalent of the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Trust Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow
such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by
notice to the Gambia. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after, and to the extent that, the
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Norwegian Special
Account, as of the date of such notice, will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Norwegian Special
Account:
       (i)   was made for an expenditure or in an amount
             not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
             this Schedule; and
        (ii)                     was not justified by
                                 the evidence furnished
                                 to the Administrator,
                                 the Gambia shall,
                                 promptly upon notice
                                 from the
                                 Administrator:
             (A)  provide such additional evidence as
                  the Administrator may request; or
Page  7
             (B)  deposit into the Norwegian Special
                  Account (or, if the Administrator
                  shall so request, refund to the
                  Administrator) an amount equal to the
                  amount of such payment or the portion
                  thereof not so eligible or justified.
                  Unless the Administrator shall
                  otherwise agree, no further deposit by
                  the Administrator into the Norwegian
                  Special Account shall be made until
                  the Gambia has provided such evidence
                  or made such deposit or refund, as the
                  case may be.
   (b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Norwegian Special
Account will not be required to cover further payments
for eligible expenditures, the Gambia shall, promptly
upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the
Administrator such outstanding amount.
   (c) The Gambia may, upon notice to the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator all or any portion of the
funds on deposit in the Norwegian Special Account.
   (d) Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), 6 (b) and 6 (c) of this Schedule shall
be credited to the Trust Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
