oI
CREDIT NUMBER 2032 GM
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1989


﻿'7
CREDIT NUMBER 2032 GM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                               1989,-between
THE REPUBLIC OF- XTHE    BIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter May 4, 1989
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),(\ declaring the
Borrower' s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting' assistafice from the Associatipn in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Minister for
Development Cooperation of The Netherlands a grant (the Dutch
Grant) in an amount equivalent to two million five hundred
thousand dollars ($2,500,000) as additional assistance toward the
financing of the imports required under the Program (the imports);
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Develop-
ment Fund (ADF) a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent to
six million dollars ($6,000,000) as additional assistance towards
the financing of the imports; and
(D) on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by'making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications therein set forth below (the General Con-
ditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:


﻿-2-
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be "financed out of the proceeds of the Credit Pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
E:q Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02, Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the res-
pective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the "United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/kev. 3 (1986); and
(b)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventeen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 17,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associatibn.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to .exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the.date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate
set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such pl4ces
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii). in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 1999 and ending April 1, 2929, Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2009
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such princip di
amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Associatiqu may revise such modification to include, in lieu
,of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) if, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Aesociation determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great-
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG) is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts CBG with responsibility for the prepara-
tion of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to
the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$10,000 equivalent,
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the.proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by>the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for thE
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the


﻿-6-
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and.,
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and,the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
o(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain- until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are inclided
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.


﻿v4
SARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi
tional condition to tte effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement, namely, that the Borrover has furnished the Assodiation
with the following 'budgets and program satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation: (i) the Borrower's 1989/90 recurrent and development
budgets; and (ii) the.Borrbwer's 1989/90-1991/92 public investment
program.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 ofs the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Trade of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance and Trade
The Qvadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of The Gambia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                           2264 GV MINFIN
The Republic of The Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street,. N.W.
Washington, D,C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    /
Regional Vice President
Africa


e l -   9   - 
o                                                                 - 9 - 
S C H E D U L E   I 
W i t h d r a w a l   o f   t h e   P r o c e e d A o f   t h e   C r e d i t 
1 .       S u b j e c t   t o   t h e   p r o v i s i o n s   s e t   f o r t h   o r   r e f e r r e d   t o   i n   t h i s 
S c h e d u l e ,   t h e   p r o c e e d s   o f   t h e   C r e d i t   m a y   b e   w i t h d r a w n   f r o m   t h e - n 
C r e d i t   A c c o u n t   f o r   e x p e n d i t u r e s   m a d e   ( o r ,   i f   t h e   A s s o c i a t i o n   s h a l l 
s o   a g r e e ,   t o   b e   m a d e )   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   r e a s o n a b l e   c o s t   o f   g o o d s 
r e q u i r e d   d u r i n g ,   t h e   e x e c u t i o n   o f   t h e   P r o g r a m   a n d   t o   b e   f i n a n c e d 
o u t   o f   s u c h   p r o c e e d s . 
2 .       N o t w i t h s t a n d i n g   t h e   p r o v i s i o n s   o f   p a r a g r a p h   1   a b o v e ,   n o   w i t h - 
d r a w a l s   s h a l l   b e   m a d e   i n   r e s p e c t   o f : 
( a )   e x p e n d i t u r e s   f o r   g o o d s   i n c l u d e d   i n   t h e   f o l l o w i n g   S I T C 
g r o u p s   o r   s u b - g r o u p s ,   o r   a n y   s u c c e s s o r   g r o u p s   o r   s u b - g r o u p s   u n d e r 
f u t u r e   r e v i s i o n s   t o   t h e   S I T C ,   a s   d e s i g n a t e d   b y   t h e   A s s o c i a t i o n   b y 
n o t i c e   t o   t h e   B o r r o w e r : 
G r o u R         S u b - g r o u p                                     D e s c r i p t i o n   o f   I t e m s 
1 1 2                                                               A l c o h o l i c   b e v e r a g e s 
1 2 1                   -                                           T o b a c c o ,   u n m a n u f a c t u r e d , 
t o b a c c o   r e f u s e 
1 2 2                   -                                           T o b a c c o ,   m a n u f a c t u r e d 
( w h e t h e r   o r   n o t   c o n t a i n i n g 
t o b a c c o   s u b s t i t u t e s ) 
5 2 5                   -                                           R a d i o a c t   i   v   e                 a   n   d 
a s s o c i a t e d   m a t e r i a l s 
6 6 7                   -                                           P e a r l s ,   p r e c i o u s   a n d   s e m i - 
p r e c i o u s   s t o n e s ,   u n w o r k e d 
o r   w o r k e d 
7 1 8                   7 1 8 . 7                                   N u c l e a r   r e a c t o r s ,             a n d 
p a r t s   t h e r e o f ,   f u e l 
e l e m e n t s   ( c a r t r i d g e s ) , 
n o n - i r r a d i a t e d   f o r   n u c l e a r 
r e a c t o r s 


﻿O10
-10 -
GroMR    Sub-group                 Description of Items
897        897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum   group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths '     wares
(including set gems)
971                               Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower orofor
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account for the said .items shall in the case of each such
item have reached an amount equivalent to 20% of the total
proceeds of the Credit.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the,
Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 8,900,000 unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence


﻿-        1
satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achibved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and (b) that the
actions described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after the exchange of views described, in paragraph 3
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
.nd, within 90 days afterosuch notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory t? the Associa-
tion, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
the_ uwithdrawn amourit of the Crpdit or any part thereof.


﻿-12 -
SCHEDULE 2o
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 (c) hereof, contracts for
the procurement of goods by private and public entities estimated
to cost the equivaleht of $250,000 or more each shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modificatidns:
(a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 INotification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one news-
paper of general circulation in the Borrower's country and,
in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿2.   (a) Goods to be procured by private entities estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $250,000 shall:.( ) be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotaM
tions solicited from a list of at least two suppliers from at
least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association; or
(ii) be procured under contracts, awarded on the basis of estab-
lished commercial practices acpeptable to the Association.
(b) Goods to be. procured by public entities estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $25Q 000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
(c) Items of a proprietary nature obtainable only from one
source and additional equipment compatible with existing equipment
and spare parts available from a sole source may be purchased by
direct contracting from original suppliers or sources in accord-
ance with paragraph.3.5 (b) and (c) of the Guidelines.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, ,the Borrower shall furnish to the, Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendeting procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request,
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the


﻿14-
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6. .The provisions of tbe preceding paragraphs 3, 4*and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement'
1.   The Borrower has as of the 1989/90 groundnut trade season:
(A) eliminated subsidies to the groundnut operations of the Gambia
Produce Marketing Board (GPKB); (B) freed GPMB from any
constraints on GPMB in determining its owh purchase price of
groundnuts in line with world and domtstic market conditions at
the time of procurement and its own cost structure; and (C)
adopted measures to ensure the financial viability of the Gambia
Cooperative Union (GCU).
2.   The Borrower has completed the ,restructuring of the Ministry
of Agriculture, including the privatization of its commercial and
production activities.
3.   The Borrower has completed a public expen4iture program for
the Ministries of: (i) Agriculture; (ii) Works and Communications;
(iii) Health; and (iv) Education.
4.   The Borrower has: (i) signed performance contracts satis-
factory to the Association with the Gambia Telecommunications
Company Limited (GAMTEL), the Social Security and Housing Finance
Corporation (SSHFC) and the Gambia Public Transport Corpotation
(GPTC); and (ii) completed the actions that have been agreed with
the Association under the restructuring program for the Gambia
Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB).


﻿- 16
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term. "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Program
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
)Che Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a, request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of -each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish t the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into


﻿-17-
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Spec:al
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a), of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
The reafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.     Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from


﻿the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (ot,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evi-
dence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) pf this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNIATJONAL DEVNT ASSOCIATION
  tar es ofthe In termational
DevelopmetAoito~
FOR SECRETARY


