Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19324
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
(CREDIT 30940-GH)
May 20, 1999
Macroeconomics 4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS:
Currency Unit                            Cedi
US$1.00                                  2,314.00 (1998 period average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER:
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:              :            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:            :            Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:             :             Charles Humphreys
Task Manager:                :            Rocio Castro



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 Agricultural Development Bank
AfDB                African Development Bank
APL                 Adaptable Program Lending
BOG                 Bank of Ghana
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CMA                 Central Management Agency
CPI                 Consumer Price Index
ECG                 Electricity Company of Ghana
ESAF                Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ERSO                Economic Reform Support Operation
FIMTAP              Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
GCB                 Ghana Commercial Bank
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GNPC                Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
GOIL                Ghana Oil Company
GPPHA               Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
GWSC                Ghana Water and Sewerage Company
IDA                 International Development Association
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MOP                 Memorandum and Recommendation of the President
MTEF                Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NIB                 National Investment Bank
NIRP                National Institutional Renewal Programme
NOC                 National Overview Committee
OECF                Organization for Economic Cooperation and Finance
PEPTA               Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance
PSAC                Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PSAC II             Second Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PUFMARP             Public Financial Management Reform Programme
PURC                Public Utilities Regulatory Commission
PUSERMOS            Public Sector Reinvention and Modernization Strategy
RAGB                Revenue Agencies Governing Board
TIN                 Tax Identification Number
TOR                 Tema Oil Refinery
VAT                 Value Added Tax
VRA                 Volta River Authority
XGS                 Exports of Goods and Services
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
(CREDIT 30940-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ....................................................................                                                                           i
PART  I: Project hnplementation  Assessment .                                           ...................................................................      1
A. Backround ....................................................................1
B.  Project Objectives and  Design ....................................................................2
C.  Achievement of Project Objectives ....................................................................2
D.  Bank  Perfonnance ....................................................................5
E.  Borrower Performance ....................................................................6
F.  Sustainability, Assessment of Outcome  and  Lessons Learned  ...............                                                 ......................6
PART  II: Statistical Annexes  ...................................................................                                                               8
Table  1: Summary  of Assessments .....................................................................8
Table 2: Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ....................................................                                    ................. 9
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................................................................9
Table 4: IDA   Adjustment Lending  Program   .......................................................9............                                   9
Table  5: Negotiation  and  Effectiveness Conditions .                                     .......................................................   10
Table 6: Triggers for Processing  of ERSO                                 .................................................................   13
Table  7: Compliance  with  Operational Directives ...............................................                                   ...........   14
Table  8: Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................................                                       15
Table  9: Bank  Resources: Missions ...................................................................   15
Annex 1.                   Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
Annex 2.                   Economic Reforn Support Operation Revised Divestiture List
Annex 3.                   Map



IMPLEMEENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GhIANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
(CREDIT 30940-GH)
PREFACE
1.    The Economic Reform Support Operation in Ghana (Credit 30940-GH) in the
amount of SDR 37.1 million (US$50 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on
June 11, 1998. The credit was a one-tranche adjustment operation that was fully
disbursed upon effectiveness on July 16, 1998, and was subsequently closed on
December 31, 1998. Parallel financing was provided by the African Development Bank
for approximately US$19 million.
2.    Preparation of this completion report was undertaken by the Resident Mission
staff. Accordingly, there is no aide-memoire associated with a mission mounted from
Washington. The report is based on materials in the project files, on discussions with
Government officials associated with the project, and on information provided by the
project coordinators. Additionally, the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report is
included as Annex 1.
3.    This Implementation Completion Report was prepared in March-April 1999 by
Camille Lampart (AFMGH), and reviewed on April 22, 1999 in a meeting chaired by
Peter Harrold, Country Director (AFC 10).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
(CREDIT 30940-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1. Background. After implementing a program of economic refonn since 1983,
Ghana's adjustment process suffered setbacks between 1992 and early 1997. Increased
fiscal spending in the lead to elections in 1992 and 1996 led to the reemergence of large
fiscal imbalances and inflationary pressures. Structural reforms slowed down and key
reforns such as the VAT and electricity tariff increases were reversed in the face of
social unrest. Against this background, the lMlF program was interrupted in mid-1996.
In 1997, however, the newly elected Government launched a fiscal program aimed at
restoring fiscal discipline and reducing inflation. By early 1998, key actions were taken
to reinstate unfinished reforms and the macroeconomic situation had begun to stabilize.
2. Objectives and design. The Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) was
designed as a one-tranche High Impact Adjustment Lending operation to quickly cover
Ghana external and budgetary financing gap for 1998. The credit endorsed significant
up-front actions including the passage of a new VAT law and the reinstatement of
increases in electricity tariffs, while a deeper program of structural reforms was
formulated. A set of future actions that would trigger the processing of future adjustment
support was agreed upon with the Government.
3. Achievement of outcomes. Ghana made progress in restoring macroeconomic
stability in 1998. Inflation fell substantially in 1998, there was a noticeable decline in
real and nominal interest rates, and gross international reserves stabilized. Most notably,
the Government approved a long awaited medium-term strategy for the cocoa sector
developed in wide consultation with stakeholders. The VAT was reintroduced in
December 1998 and electricity tariffs were raised to economic levels, this time, in a
climate of general social acceptance. In addition, the Govemment adopted a Medium
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for the 1999 budget ahead of schedule, and made
progress in launching the implementation of a major public sector reform program. The
privatization program was less satisfactory and the Govemment has recently adopted a
new strategy for implementing it.
4. Bank and borrower performance. The Bank's performance was satisfactory.
Project preparation was rapid and very cost efficient. The identification, at appraisal, of
triggers for processing firther adjustment support, was an important innovation in Ghana.
The Borrower's performnance was also satisfactory, in particular, by ensuring consensus
for the need to move ahead with unfinished reforms. Adequate progress on the triggers
has been made in a timely fashion.
5. Sustainability, overall assessment and  lessons.   Although  the  overall
macroeconomic situation continues to improve, sustainability hinges on a continued
decline in inflation and real interest rates. The impetus for structural reforms remains
strong in most areas and a Second Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO II) has
been prepared. The overall assessment is satisfactory because the operation achieved its



ii
intended impact of supporting stabilization and the resumption of the reform program.
The major lesson from this operation is that Bank processes and procedures can be
managed in such a way as to deliver timely assistance very rapidly.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
(CREDIT 30940-GH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMIENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1. After implementing a continued program of economic reform since 1983, Ghana
suffered severe macroeconomic instability during the period 1992-96. Higher than
planned public spending in the lead to elections in 1992 and later in 1996 worsened fiscal
imbalances and increased inflationary pressures. Moreover, key reforms were reversed in
the face of considerable social unrest. A 17.5 percent VAT was repealed shortly after its
introduction and a 200 percent increase in electricity tariffs was reversed. The IM's
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) was interrupted in mid-1996 after less
than a year. In 1997, the newly elected Government launched a fiscal adjustment
program with the objectives of restoring fiscal discipline and bringing the program back
on track.
2. By early 1998, key actions were taken to reinstate the unfinished reforms and
significant progress had been made in restoring macroeconomic stability. The Parliament
passed a bill for the reintroduction of the VAT, set a 10 percent, later in the year. In
addition, the independent Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC) was
established to set utility tariffs and implemented a 90 percent average increase in
electricity rates effective from March. The IMF program was resumed in March 1998
and a new Policy Framework Paper for the 1998-2000 period was prepared.
3. The turnaround in the macroeconomic situation was significant. The domestic
primary balance increased from 0.3 percent of GDP in 1996 to 3.2 percent in 1997 the
highest since the start of the Economic Recovery Programme (ERP) in 1983. Inflation
was reduced from 33 percent at end-1996 to 21 percent at end-1997. However, the
external position deteriorated considerably. Excessive non-concessional borrowing in
1996 and early 1997 had led to a large increase in debt service payments. In addition,
Ghana saw a steep 40 percent decline in grant financing of public expenditures over
1997. As a result, gross official reserves fell sharply from 4.4 to 2.6 months of imports.
4. IDA's adjustment support for FY1998 was originally programmed as a supplement to
the ongoing Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC). However, the developments in
1996 resulted in a long delay for the release of the third tranche of the first PSAC until
March 1998. The need for waivers precluded a supplement to the PSAC. This increased
the risk that the restoration of macroeconomic stability would be derailed. In late
November 1997, the IMF had already begun preparations for a resumption of the
standing ESAF program. An early commitment from the Bank in recognition of the
recent progress was necessary to send signals to the donor community that the Ghana
program had achieved an acceptable resumption. However, there was not sufficient
clarity on the medium-term program to merit an acceleration of the PSAC II (planned for
FY99).



2
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
5. The Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) was designed as a one-tranche
operation and processed along the High Impact Adjustment Lending model to quickly
cover the substantial financing gap for 1998. The credit would support the early progress
in restoring macroeconomic stability and endorse significant up-front actions taken by the
Government to resume unfinished reforms, while a deeper program of structural refonns
was being formulated. To reinforce the movement forward, a set of future actions that
would trigger the processing of the next adjustment operation was agreed upon with the
Government (see Table 6).
6. Key up-front actions endorsed by the ERSO were: the passage of the VAT law and
the related tax administration reforms; the increase in electricity tariffs aimed at restoring
the financial viability of the public utilities; and the preparation of the 1999 budget
guidelines along a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The ERSO also
sought to lay the foundations for broader reforms in public sector and public expenditure
management, privatization, and movement toward increased private participation in the
energy and cocoa sectors. In energy, divestiture and public sector reform, the credit
endorsed and reinforced reform strategies and programs that had already been articulated
by the Government, and more substantive actions were to follow as triggers for later
adjustment support. On cocoa, the Government was to formulate a revised medium-term
strategy for the sector.
C. ACHEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES1
7. Covering Ghana's external financing gap for 1998. At the November 1997
Consultative Group (CG) meeting for Ghana, a financing gap of about US$150 million in
program assistance was projected for 1998. It was expected that the ERSO would attract
an additional US$50-70 million in parallel financing. The African Development Bank
(AfDB) pledged US$26 million as parallel financing, but this was later scaled down to
approximately US$19 million. The first tranche of about $14 million was disbursed in
January 1999. In addition, the Government requested from the Organization for
Economic and Cooperation and Finance (OECF, Japan) another US$50 million to be
disbursed in the first quarter of 19992. Overall, program assistance nearly doubled 1997
levels.
8. Macroeconomic stabilization. Ghana has continued to make progress in restoring
macroeconomic stability. In 1998, the overall budget deficit was contained to 6.6 percent
of GDP and the domestic primary balance increased to 3.6 percent of GDP. Fiscal and
monetary restraint led to substantial reduction in inflation and interest rates while the
nominal exchange rate remained relatively stable. The annual rate of inflation declined to
16 percent by end-1998 and to 10 percent by April 1999. Gross intemnational reserves
stabilized at around 2.5 months of imports.
IFor a detailed list of conditions and their compliance, see Table 5.
2 However, the OECF support was delayed, and at the time of writing had still not been confirmed.



3
9. In addition, the economy exhibited much more resilience through a drought-related
energy crisis that surfaced in early 1998. A good cocoa crop, increased volumes in the
mining sector, and fast growing non-traditional exports helped to offset increased imports
of petroleum, whose cost was moderated by declining oil prices. Increases in private
capital flows related to privatization also helped to offset the higher amortization of
external public debt. The debt service ratio decreased from 32 percent in 1997 to 27
percent in 1998 because of the Government's strict adherence to a moratorium on new
non-concessional external loans and guarantees.  Finally, domestically financed
expenditures in health and education as a percentage of GDP were increased in 1998.
10. Resumption of unfinished reforms. The Government has made major progress on
completing its unfinished program of tax reform and actions to improve the financial
viability of the electricity utilities. The VAT was successfully reintroduced in December
1998 without any signs of social unrest. A unique tax identification numbering (TIN)
system was established and a common governing board instituted to coordinate activities
in the three separate revenue services. To date, over 13,000 businesses have registered
for the VAT and received TINs, far exceeding the original target for the first phase.
11. The newly-established PURC implemented further increases in electricity tariffs in
September 1998 bringing the average increase for the year to over 200 percent, thus
allowing utilities to cover cash operating costs and own-guaranteed debt service through
the end of 1999. In addition, the Government adopted financial recovery plans for the
Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG) and the Volta River Authority (VRA) that include
efficiency improvements and the settlement of arrears.
12. Foundations for next phase of reforms. The next stage of the structural refonn
program for Ghana involves broad efforts to fundamentally reposition the state in the
economy. These include reforms in public sector and public expenditure management,
accelerating the Government's withdrawal from commercial activities through divestiture
and reform of public agencies, and deepening private participation in key economic
sectors, such as cocoa and energy.
13. The MTEF. The Government has made substantial progress on its Public Financial
Management Reform Program (PUFMARP) during 1998. The 1999 budget was
formulated according to the MTEF for the first time and was extended to all sectors
rather than the three that were originally planned. The MTEF extends the budget horizon
to three years to allow better planning and prioritization. The MTEF has also integrated
the programming of development and recurrent expenditures and increased the
transparency in the allocation of Government resources, including external funds. Other
actions include the design of a new budget and public expenditure management system
and new expenditure control rules.
14. Cocoa Reform. The Government recently completed a medium-term development
strategy for the cocoa sector. This strategy evolved from a series of broad consultations
within the sector, starting in September 1998 and culminating in a national workshop in
January 1999. The resulting strategy is far-reaching: it will accelerate increases in the
share of the f.o.b. export price paid to farmers; reduce the taxation of cocoa bean exports;
gradually allow private participation in exports; and provide non-discriminatory access
by domestic crop purchasers to government warehouse and credit facilities. This marks a



4
distinct change in the Government's approach to the cocoa sector and has surmounted
significant political hurdles by raising the awareness of the need for reform, and building
a constituency for change. It also represents a major breakthrough in the Bank's policy
dialogue with Ghana, after several years of little progress.
15. Energy Reform. The Government has made important headway in improving the
financial viability of the utilities and enhancing the regulatory framework for private
participation. In addition to the substantial tariffs increases effected in 1998, both
utilities are being restructured this year to prepare them for divestiture. In April 1999, the
Government issued a Statement of Sector Policy outlining the future structure of the
sector and the remaining reform agenda. By end-1999, it will publish a plan to guide
private investment in wholesale power supply, publish the guidelines for setting tariffs in
order to ensure transparency in pricing, and complete regulations for private participation
in the sector. Notably, the Government plans to privatize the distribution systems of the
Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG) by end-2000. This would be the first such
divestiture in Africa.
16. Divestiture. Under the ERSO, Ghana extended its divestiture program to cover all
major public enterprises in the energy, transport and banking sectors. The Cabinet
approved a list of the twelve strategic enterprises (including five banks) to be outsourced
for divestiture by June 1999 and re-affirmed a policy to outsource the divestiture process
of these enterprises to specialized investment advisors. Of these firms, four non-banking
entities have been outsourced, to date. The divestiture strategy for the banks has recently
been redefined in light of difficulties in finding strategic investors and the financial
deterioration of two banks (see Table 5). Meanwhile, there have been substantial delays
in completing a number of sales of small and medium enterprises, partly owing to delays
in the outsourcing process, problems in resolving outstanding liabilities, and low investor
interest. These issues were addressed at the mid-term review of the IDA-supported
Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance (PEPTA) project held in April
1999. As a result, the Government has adopted a new sales strategy whereby it will
streamline bidding procedures and evaluation processes while it focuses resources and
attention on larger enterprises. In particular, qualification issues will be assessed up-front
and selection of winning bids will be based on price only. For smaller enterprises, no
high-level decision making will be required.
17. Public Sector Reform. The ERSO initiated the implementation of Ghana's Public
Sector Reinvention and Modernization Strategy (PUSERMOS) adopted in late 1997. The
Government outlined three main areas for action: rationalization of subvented agencies3;
reforrma of central management agencies; and improvement of the policy formulation and
management process. There has been progress on the first two areas. Twenty-five, rather
than seventeen, subvented agencies have been targeted for closure or commercialization
in the pilot phase to be completed by end-200 1. Work has also begun on the
restructuring of three central management agencies. The Bank is supporting the first two
areas through an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation approved by the Board on
May 4, 1999. The policy management component has been moving slowly because of
lack of clear consensus among the various agencies involved about the distribution of
3 Agencies which derive their fimding from govemnment subsidies.



5
responsibilities. This has impeded the appointment of policy analysts to the Cabinet.
The Bank has postponed its support in this area until consensus is reached within
Government.
D. BANK PERFORMANCE
18. The Bank's performance in project identification was highly satisfactory. The
decision to pursue a fast track operation was appropriate for several reasons: the need for
urgent balance of payments support and as an indicator of Bank support of the significant
recent turnaround in the country's performance. The cooperation between the Bank and
the Borrower during stabilization provided a good opportunity to cement relations and
strengthen the delivery of advisory services. The choice to support a broader range of
reforms, in addition to privatization, recognized that there were issues facing the
economy in other areas, and the need to rethink the Bank's involvement in the divestiture
program.
19. Project preparation was satisfactory, taking only one month between identification
and appraisal (see Table 3) and incurring costs of only $68,600 (see Table 9). The
operation supported policy actions that were articulated and designed under other Bank
projects, thus reinforcing these reform programs. For example, the credit induced policy
decisions on the reform of subvented agencies which advanced the implementation of
PUSERMOS. It also deepened the Bank's involvement in financing divestiture activities
under PEPTA by securing a policy on outsourcing and the selection of strategic firms for
privatization.
20. Project appraisal was satisfactory. The identification of future actions that would
trigger the processing of the next operation was an important innovation in Ghana. These
triggers were approved by the Cabinet and included in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (see Table 6). However, because these triggers were effectively
conditionalities for continued support, the appraisal of both the Government's
commitment and their relative relevance for the program could have been more rigorous,
specifically regarding the divestiture and public sector reform programs. For example,
the appointment of policy analysts to Cabinet was not as critical an action for the reform
program and in hindsight, it should have been excluded from the list of triggers.
21. The major risk of this operation was whether, as a package, the up-front actions taken
under the operation positively signaled the end of the Ghana's periodic slippage on
macroeconomic policies and a renewed commitment to structural adjustment. These
risks were recognized in the President's report and at each level of review. Indeed, the
operation was the result of a strategy of waiting for significant action and then moving
very rapidly to provide support, which proved to be effective.
22. The risk that reforms would be weakened by adverse social reactions, as with
previous experiences, was mitigated by the Government's new approach of broadly
consulting social partners in policy formulation (see para. 23).4 In fact, this approach was
also adopted for the formulation of the cocoa sector strategy, with similar success.
4 These ideas were captured in the Concept Review Paper but not reflected in the President's Report.



6
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
23. The borrower's performance on preparation was satisfactory. The Govemment had
already articulated a number of reform strategies, including PUSERMOS and
PUFMARP, aimed at improving the efficiency of the public sector and the Power Sector
Development Program for the energy sector. Most notably, in September 1997 a
National Economic Forum involving a wide range of stakeholders was held on the
country's economic growth strategy. This consultation served to underscore the private
sector as an engine of growth, to coalesce support for the Government's Vision 2020
goals, and to build consensus on the need to move ahead with unfinished reforms (such as
the VAT). The Government also took full ownership of the preparation of the Letter of
Development Policy, and expedited the legal steps for the processing of the credit.
24. Implementation was also satisfactory. The operation endorsed up-front actions
therefore all of the conditionalities were completed prior to Board presentation. More
importantly, the Government has adequately satisfied eight of the ten triggers (outlined in
Table 6) for the processing of a follow-up adjustment operation. As noted earlier,
progress on the divestiture program has been less than satisfactory. In light of this and in
the context of the PEPTA mid-term review, the Government has decided to concentrate
efforts on the larger enterprises, to streamline procedures, and increase the speed of
decision making to close transactions.  In addition, while the policy management
component of public sector reform is moving slowly, the Government is working on
reaching the necessary consensus while it has started the restructuring of the central and
subvented agencies, which are very critical for the reform process.
F. SUSTAINABILITY, ASSESSMENT OF OUTCoME AND LESSONS LEARNED
25. Sustainability. Although the macroeconomic situation has continued to improve,
sustainability is hinged on a continued decline in inflation and real interest rates in order
to contain the domestic debt burden. Expenditure restraint continues to be necessary, but
resources need to be delivered to ministries in line with the MTEF in order to maintain
the new ethos of planning and judicious target setting. As a result, the fiscal program is
acutely balanced on increases in tax revenues, a recovery in external concessional
funding, and a reduction in domestic interest rates and payments.
26. The major risks to the program are the possibility of another bout of fiscal excess
prior to the 2000 presidential elections, and demands by public servants for salary
increases.  On the former, it appears that having experienced the inflationary
consequences of previous election-related excesses, both the electorate and the
Government have begun to value macroeconomic stability over one-shot transfers.
27. The impetus for structural reforms remains strong in most areas supported by the
ERSO. A Second Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO II) has been recently
prepared because the Government has satisfied the specified triggers. This credit will
support the implementation of policy reforms in the cocoa, energy, and financial sectors;
including the privatization of key enterprises. For public sector reform, the Bank has
recently approved an APL, which is a more appropriate vehicle for supporting
institutional reform. The MTEF process and public expenditure management will



7
continue to be supported by the Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
(FIMTAP).
28. A major concern is implementation of the divestiture program. The Bank is now
focusing on strengthening Government ownership of the program while shifting attention
and resources to support the divestiture of economically significant enterprises. The
recent PEPTA mid-term review and the preparation of ERSO II have proved instrumental
to moving in this direction. In particular, the ERSO II is concentrating on the divestiture
of key enterprises in energy and banking sectors, while the divestiture process in general,
including that for smaller enterprises, will continue to be supported by the PEPTA
project.
29. On the policy management component of public sector reform, concerns raised during
the ERSO Concept Review remain unresolved, i.e. the relationship between the Policy
Management Group and the Cabinet are still unclear. The Bank has postponed its
support for this component under the new APL until the necessary consensus within
Government is reached.
30. Notwithstanding the sustainability concerns, the overall assessment of the ERSO is
rated satisfactory. The project fully achieved its intended developmental impact of
supporting the restoration of macroeconomic stability, the completion of one phase of
reforms and laying the foundations for the next stage.
31. The major lessons learned from this operation are as follows:
a. Bank processes and procedures can, with effort and cooperation, be managed in
such a way as to deliver timely assistance very rapidly. After a period in which the
program has been off-track, there appears to be merit in waiting for significant up-
front actions and then moving very rapidly to provide commensurate support.
b. Institutional development and capacity building actions should not be included
as conditionalities (or triggers) in fast track adjustment credits, because for these
types of actions that cannot be sufficiently predetermined, implementation often
does not proceed as planned.
c. In a maturing democracy, policy reforms will generally take a longer time
because of the need to build consensus. However, in turn, this participatory
process can safeguard reforms by forming a coalition and building the momentum
for change.
d. Triggers should be treated with the same rigor as conditionalities, especially in
the appraisal of the Government's commitment and their relative relevance to the
overall program (selectivity).
e. The Bank needs to make additional efforts to strengthen the Govemment's
ownership of the divestiture program in order to enhance the effectiveness of both
adjustment (conditionalities) and technical assistance instruments.



8
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
(CREDIT 30940-GH)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
_   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
Macroeconomic policies                            X
Sector poxicies                                                                      _
Financial objectives                              X
Public sector management                                       X
Private sector development                                     X
Physical objectives       .                                               X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ....6
Sumnmary Assessment                                        X
Identification                        X
Preparation assistance                                  X
Appraisal                    _______                    X        ___
Superision                   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           X         _   _  _ _  _
Summary Assessment                                         X
Preparation                            X
Implenentation                                         X
Covenant compliance                                    X
Suwm    marysAssmentsment



9
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
;.
Preceding Operations
1. Second Phase of       2nd phase of structural adjustment program:   1 989            Closed
StructuralAdjustment    trade, exchange rate and tax reforms, public
Program                  expenditure management, state enterprise
and civil service reforms.
2. Private Investment and   Improved regulatory framework for private   1991             Closed
Sustained Development    investment, state enterprise reform, tax
(SAC III)                reform, and public expenditure.                        __
3. Private Sector        Accelerated privatization program,             1995             Closed
Adjustment Credit        Improved public expenditure management.
5. Public Enteiprise and    Divestiture of public enterprises and      1996             Ongoing
Privatization Technical    rationalization of subvented organizations.
Assistance Project      I_                                                                      _
6. Financial Management  Improvements in public financial              1997             Ongoing
Technical Assistance     management.
Project
Following Operations
1. Second Economic       Fiscal reform, cocoa sector reform, energy    1999            Board date
Reform Support Operation sector reform, financial sector form, including   (in progress)  May 27, 1999
(ERSO II)               privatization of key enterprises.         _
2. Public Sector         Institutional development                     1999            Approved
Management Reform        Improved efficiency and effectiveness of
Program - APL            public services.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification (Concept Review Meeting)                               March 17, 1998
Preparation (Decision Meeting)                                        March 25, 1998
Appraisal                                        April 14, 1998        Apnrl 14, 1998
Negotiations                                     April29,1998          April 30,1998
Board Presentation                               June 18, 1998         June 11, 1998
Signing                                                                July 13, 1998
Effectiveness and Single Tranche Release         July 31, 1998         July 16, 1998
Loan Closing                                   December31 1998    December31, 1998
TABLE 4: IDA ADJUSTMENT LENDING PROGRAM
(US$ millions)
CAS Base Case Program                             70-150    40-90
PSAC II                                    70-150
PSAC Ill                                              40-90
Actual and Planned Commitments            50       180        0
ERSO (Cr. 30940-GIH)               50
ERSO H                                       180        0



10
TABLE 5: NEGrTIATION AND EFFECTVENESS CONDITIONS
(or Key Indicators for Project Implementation)
Macroeconomic Program
ESAF performance criteria (June 1998) program        actual         Inflation rate fell from 21% at end-I 997
Domestic primary balance (c billion)     287 (min)     342          to 16% at end-1998.
% GDP            1.6            2.1
Net domestic fm of budget (¢z billion)   315 (max)     307          Interest rates (91-day t-bills) fell slowly
o% GDP)          1.8            2.1          from 42% at end-1997to 27% at end-
Reservemoney           (¢:billion)      1125 (max)    1122          1998.
(12-month change)    29.7           29.3
Net foreign assets    ($US million)     -75 (min)       63          Exteral current account deficit fell
from 8.8% GDP in 1997 to 3.5% GDP
in 1998.
Moratorium on new non-concessional       Complied.                         Extemal debt service in % of XGS fell
external loans contracted or guaranteed by                                from 32% in 1997 to 27% in 1998.
the Government or Bank of Ghana.
No increase in short term external debt  Complied.
outstanding contracted or guaranteed by
Government or Bank of Ghana.
No increase in govenrnment payment arrears.  Increase in arrears to road projects    Government audit of contracts led to
contractors from 0.3% GDP at end-   decision to inmmediately terminate the
1997 to 0.8% GDP at end-1 998.   most problematic ones and to eliminate
arrears by end-2000.
Divestiture Programi
Revise the divestiture list to include twelve    Revised list of firms adopted in May  ERSO II to concentrate on divestiture
large state-owned companies: GNPC (non-    1998 (See Annex 2). Four non-   of banks and the distribution units of
core assets),TOR, Ghana Airways, GOIL,  banking firms outsourced (out of  the Electricity Company of Ghana
ECG, GPHA, Ghana Railways, GCB, NIB,   seven). Of five banks, two expected  (ECG).
ADB, Coop and BHC. The outsourcing       to be outsourced (for 2nd time), two
program for GWSC while not included in the  to be closed down, and one
list began at the same time.            postponed.
Adopt a policy whereby the divestiture of  Outsourcing policy initially adopted   Only 2 enterprises outsourced in 1998
such state-owned companies would be      in 1996 and re-affirmed for large  and 23 overall. The selection criteria for
contracted out on a competitive basis to  firms in May 1998.               enterprises to be outsourced needs to be
private consulting firms or investment banks.           revisited, since the economic rationale
private consulting firms or investment banks.                             for outsourcing is not clear in some
cases. A review of the program was
conducted in April 1999 under PEPTA.



11
Tax Reform
Establish tax identification numbering  T1N systems established in      Over 13,000 TiNs assigned for launch
system for all taxpayers to harmonize tax  Marchl 998 with the first phase  of VAT. The second phase is to extend
collection infonnation and enhance     concentrated on VAT-eligible     TINs to all tax payer categories by end-
monitoring of compliance with the various   registrants.                1999.
taxes.                                                                I
Promulgate the VAT Act and establish a  VAT Act passed February 1998    The Government reported that the first
VAT rate of 10%.                       with 10% rate. VAT replaces sales   returns for January and February 1999
and service taxes in December 1998.  are encouraging.
Expenditure Management
Adopt the MTEF, which includes a three-    Guidelines for the preparation of  Allocations to health and education
year rolling plan (1999-2001) for allocation   1999 Budget include MTEF 1999-   programmed to reach 29 percent of
of public resources.                   2001 issued in June 1998.        domestically-financed expenditures in
2001 up from 22 percent in 1998.
Prepare the MTEF manual for            Manual prepared in May 1998.     MTEF (1 999-2001) adopted for all
implementing the MIEF in three priority                                 sectors in the preparation of 1999
sectors in 1999 and for all sectors in                                  Budget.
subsequent years.
Complete the design of the Budget and  BPEMS design completed in 1998.   New expenditure control rules and a
Public Expenditure Management System                                    new accounting framework consistent
(BPEMS).                                                                with MTEF have been introduced.
Select a contractor for the installation,  Contractor selected. Delays in  The proposed system has been scaled
testing and customization of the computer    inplementation due to split of firm    down, but will still cover all central
software for BPEMS.                    responsible for design, and an   government agencies and have one site
underestimation of costs.        in each district.
Public Sector Management Reform
Establish a subcommittee of the Cabinet to   TOR for subcommittee submitted to  The National Overview Committee
oversee its public sector management   Vice President and commitment to   (NOC) has established a secretariat to
reforn program.                        establish committee by mid-I 998.    manage the National Institutional
Instead, the Government nominated   Renewal Program and continues to
the National Overview Cornmittee    oversee and support public sector
to oversee all public sector reform    reform actions.
activities. The Bank accepted this
decision in a letter to the
Government in August 1998.
Select key professional staff to support the   Three rounds of selection have been   The Bank has postponed its support for
operations of the Cabinet.             undertaken, and recommended staff  the policy management component
rejected at the fnal political   until a clear consensus is reached
clearance each time.             among various relevant agencies (i.e.
Cabinet, Policy Management Group,
NOC,etc.)
Adopt a program for reforming subvented    Pilot program designed and final list  New APL to support this program
agencies, including a list of agencies to be    of 25 agencies to be closed or  approved in May 1998.
closed down, to operate on a partially  commercialized to be approved in
commercial basis and to operate on a fully    May 1999.
commercial basis.



12
~~~~~~                '~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .; 1 ~   --
Strengthening Infrastructure
Implement significant tariff increases in  Electricity tariffs increased by an  New tariffs only cover cash operating
both the energy and water sectors to      average 90% in February 1998 and    costs of transmission, distribution, and
strengthen the financial viability of the  again in September 1998 resulting in  part of current debt service operation.
electricity and water sectors.            a cumulative average rate increase
of over 200%.
Water tariffs increased in March   An additional 70% increase to restore
1998 by an average 140%.           financial viability is under
consideration at the PURC.
Enact the Public Utilities Regulatory     PURC Act passed in October 1997.   PURC to publish tariff-setting
Comnnission Act and establish the         Commission inaugurated in          guidelines for the power sector in 1999.
Comnmission to be responsible for        November 1997.
regulating water and power sectors,
including the establishment of utility prices
and service standards.
Enact the Energy Commission Act and       Energy Commission Act passed on    Commission inaugurated in October
establish the Cormnission to implement    October 1997.                      1998. Delays owing to energy crisis in
strategies under a restructured energy sector                                mid-late 1998. Electricity regulations
to create a conducive enviromnent to attract                                 are under preparation by Ministry of
private capital, promote competition and                                     Mines and Energy for end-I 999.
enhance efficiency.                                                          Statement of Sector Development
____________ ___  .. Policy published in April 1999.



13
TABLE 6: TRiGGERS FOR PROCESSING OF ERSO II
(or Key Indicators of Project Operation)
Achievement of main fiscal targets for 1998  1998 targets on track.       1999 program agreed and a third ESAF
and agreemnent on program for 1999                                        approved by IMF board in May 1999.
Re-introduction of VAT.                Re-introduced December 30, 1998 at   Ml program envisages adjustment to
10%.                              rate.
Establishment of Central Revenue Authority  Law establishing common Revenue    Remove "special tax" of 17.5% on
Agencies Governing Board passed   selected imports.
December 3,1998. Board appointed    Complete comprehensive review of tariff
early 1999. Institutional framework   regime.
is being prepared.                Reduce top tariff rate in line with rates in
the sub-region.
Formulation of 1999 budget on an MTEF  MTEF (1999-2001) adopted for all    Continued use of MTEF for future
basis                                   sectors in the preparation of 1999  budgets.
Budget.
Adequate progress in the approved       Partially done:                   ERSOII to concentrate on resolution of
divestiture program:                   (a) See Annex 2.                   divestitures of banks.
(a) Twelve (12) strategic enterprises to be    (b) Ten (10) small-/medium-sized  Resolution of distressed banks.
outsourced for divestiture by June 1999.  divestitures completed, mainly owing   Complete divestiture of remaining govt.
(b) Twenty (20) small/medium enterprises   to delays with resolving outstanding    share in GCB and NIB, to strategic
targeted for divestiture in 1998.       liabilities and commitments of    investors and through stock exchange.
enterprises.                      Review role of ADB in agricultural
____________________________________  finance.
Cabinet approval of subvented agencies to    Expected May 1999.           These two actions have been de-linked
be closed or restructured in pilot phase.                                 from the ERSO 11. The first is being
_  _____________________              supported under the IDA-financed Public
Appointment of five policy analysts to  Not done.                         Sector Management Reform APL.
support the Cabinet.                                                      Regarding the second, the Bank has
postponed its support for this policy
management component until a clear
consensus is reached within Govermnent.
Actions to restore financial viability of  Financial Recovery Plans adopted for  Continue implementation of fmancial
public energy utilities, including      ECG and VRA in September 1998     recovery plans for ECG and VRA.
regularization of arrears and further tariff   including arrangements to convert  Divest ECGthrough joint ventures to run
increase.                              some arrears to government equity  distribution zones.
and to defer certain debt service  Complete regulations for operation of
obligations until 2000.           national grid.
PURC to publish guidelines for setting
electricity tariffs.
At least match cocoa producer prices with    On-going. Latest adjustment done for  Price adjustment for 1999/2000 crop
those of neighboring countries.         1998/99 crop season.              season (see below) to be announced in
June 1999.
Formulate medium-term cocoa strategy.  Cocoa Development Strategy Task    Increase farmer's share to 65% of f.o.b.
Force Report presented to national    price for 1999/2000 crop season.
stakeholder workshop in January   Allow qualified domestic crop purchasers
1999. Medium-term cocoa strategy    to export 30% of their crop.
approved by Cabinet on April 1,   Ensure equal access by all domestic crop
1999.                             purchasers to Cocoa Board's
warehousing and financing facilities.



14
TABLE 7: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL DIERECTIVES
ISSUES IN ADJUSTMENT LENDiNG, R96-55,    ERSO PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
4/4/96.
B. CRITEIUA FOR SINGLE TRANCHING
34. Single tranche operations should always    Paras. 64-68 "Directions for Future Adjustment Programs"
provide a clear indication of how a particular    describes reforms in the cocoa, energy, and public sectors.
operation links with future operations.
36. A single tranche operation may be     71. The proposed single tranche credit would undeipin the
considered on the basis of up-front policy  existing fiscal reform program and includes some of the
actions, provided these actions were envisaged in remaining PSAC agenda such as the consolidation of the
the CAS as part of a medium-term program of   privatization program as well as launching broader
reforms, and providing adequate provisions exist rationalization of the public sector.
in terms of other lending or non-lending services
for assisting the country to carry out that  All the conditionalities were supported by other TA or
program.                                  investment operations.
HIGHER IMPACT ADJUSTMENT LENDING - UPDATE, CHIEF ECONOMIST, AFR, MAR 1998
Increased selectivity:
o  Track record of compliance with  [  Compliance with 3rd tranche of preceding PSAC
conditionalites                     delayed and required waivers.
.  Borrower conmitment              V  Government took full ownership of preparing the Letter of
Development Policy.
*  Policy performance/reform effort    l  Most of the reform programs were articulated before
processing of operation.
.  Implementation of IMF programs.   i  The operation was consistent with the IMF ESAF program
and fit well into the PFP starting in the same year.
More in-country stakeholder participation.  i  The operation built on reform strategies that were prepared
with broad stakeholder input. Specifically, the economic
growth strategy was discussed at a National Economic
Forum in September 1997.
Single/floating tranche operations.      i  Single tranche operatioTL
Increased credibilty of conditionality through:
.  Front-loading                   V   All the conditions were up-front.
*  Reduction in number             x  There were too many (10) triggers.
.  Better focussing                x  Some triggers could have been dropped.
.  Strict consequences in non-     i  There was negligible non-compliance.
comipliance.
Better use of combinations of TA, investment    '  ERSO complemented ongoing and future TA and
and adjustment operations for enhanced       investment operations.
effectiveness.
Use of performance indicators for defining  x  The performance indicators were not adequately specific
expected results and monitoring the impact.  in key areas, but performance was measured by action
on the triggers.
Strong empirical basis for the proposed   x  Both the CAS and the President's Report lacked
measures.                                     adequate analysis of the growth-based antipoverty
strategy.



15
TABLE 8: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPuTS
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ea
Preparation to approval    9.5        42.9          9.5         42.9         10.6        68.6
Supervision/Completion    n.a.        89.0          8.5         43.0         6.0         30.0
TOTAL                     n.a.        131.9        18.0         85.9         16.6        9.
I/ Estimate
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Identtification and    No niission, i hficato  n re-appraisal completed by resident mission staff.
pre-appraisal
Appraisal/           Apr 14 - May 1,      6      16   Econornist            n.a.       rn.a.       n.a.
Negotiation               1998                        Lead Economist
Public Sector Ref
Public Finance
Privatization
Legal
Completion         No mission, ICR conmpleted by: resident mission staff                         .



16
ANNEX I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
(CREDIT 30940-GiH)
The following pages are the Government of Ghana's evaluation report on the
ERSO project prepared by the Minister of Finance.



17
GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Introduction
1. The Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) was negotiated between the Government
of Ghana (GOG) and the International Development Association (IDA) in April 1998. The
Development Credit Agreement was signed on 13"h July 1998 and the Credit became
effective on 16th July 1998.
Objectives
2. The Credit was a one tranche operation and meant to assist in covering Ghana's external
financing gap for 1998. The primary objective of the associated programme was to
consolidate macro economic stability and to lay the foundation for complex reforms in areas
of public sector reform, public expenditure management, privatisation and reforms in the
energy and cocoa sectors.
Financing
3. The programme was expected to be financed by IDA (US$50million equivalent) and co-
financed by Japan, through OECF (US$50 million) and the African Development Bank
(US$13 million). The IDA credit was disbursed in July 1998. The ADB also disbursed
US$10 million of its commitment in January 1999. However, OECF-Japan's commitment is
yet to be disbursed.
Achievements of Project Objectives
4. Overall, the objectives of the programme were achieved by end of 1998. The country made
satisfactory progress in improving the macro economic framework, notwithstanding the
drought related energy crisis during the first half of the year and the adverse contagion effect
of the Asian Financial Crisis.
5. Macro Economic: Performance:       Real GDP rose by 4.6 per cent, though lower than
the target rate of 5.6 per cent for 1998, but higher than rate of 4.2 per cent recorded in 1997.
Rate of inflation which stood at 21.0 per cent in December 1997 fell to 16.0 per cent in
December 1998. The overall budget deficit dropped from 9.9 per cent in 1997 to 8.1 per cent
in 1998, while the domestic primary balance improved from 3.2 per cent to 3.6 per cent in the
same period. Monetary growth slowed down considerably and for the first time in several
years money supply was broadly on target. Money supply (M2+) recorded a growth of 17.3
per cent (year-on-year), compared with 42.0 per cent and 41.6 per cent in the corresponding
periods of 1997 and 1996 respectively.



18
6. The year 1998 also witnessed strong export growth led by cocoa and gold exports. Import
growth in value terms slowed because of a sharp decline in petroleum prices. The current
account, including official transfers, recorded a deficit that was equivalent to 3.7 per cent of
GDP. On the other hand, the capital account showed a net inflow of $371.5 million. These
inflows were more than enough to finance the current account deficit, resulting in an overall
balance on payment surplus of $99.4million. The external public debt service declined from
32 per cent to 28 per cent of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1998. The cedi
depreciated by about 4.3 per cent against the US dollar, compared to a depreciation of 22.7
per cent in 1997.
Structural Reforms
7. VAT:    Parliament passed the VAT Act for its reintroduction on 30t December 1998, and
the tax was successfully re-introduced at the rate of 10 per cent to replace the sales and
service taxes. In addition, the first phase of the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)
project was successfully introduced in 1998. This phase concentrated on the VAT registered
traders. As at end of March 1999, about 13,000 traders have been issued with their TINs.
The Revenue Agencies (Goveming) Board Act (Act 558) was also passed in 1998. The
Board will coordinate the activities of all the tax collection agencies in order to eliminate
duplication of work and ensure maximum efficiency in tax collection effort.
8. MTEF:  In keeping with the commitment to improve financial management in the public
sector, the Govemment in 1998, adopted the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
as its approach to budget preparation. The framework hinges on a three-year rolling budget
based on strategic plans of individual MDAs as against the annual budgets of the past. These
measures are to ensure that MDA programmes and policies are directly related to national
priorities. The design also allows for trade-offs of programmes and resources among MDAs
over a three-year period.
9. Public Sector Management Reform: The Government in 1998 established the National
Overview Committee to oversee all public sector reform activities. Further, the Government
with assistance from the World Bank has instituted a Public Sector Modernisation
programme to reform all central management and subvented agencies. A pilot programme
designed to commercialise or closed 25 subvented agencies is about to be implemented.
10. Energy Sector: In 1998, the Government continued to implement energy sector reforms
including further de-regulatory measures in petroleum  supply.  The Public Utilities
Regulatory Commission (PURC) approved electricity and water tariff increases as part of the
measures to restore the credit worthiness of VRA, ECG and GWSC. The Government has
recently published a Statement of Power Sector Development Policy to outline the remaining
reform agenda for dissemination and discussion with stakeholders.
11. Cocoa:  In 1998, the Government took steps to review the medium and long-term strategy
for the cocoa sector in view of the rapidly changing market environment. In September 1998,
a task force composed of a wide representation from across the sector prepared a report,
which was discussed at a national workshop in January 1999. On the basis of these



19
discussions the government has formulated a medium-term cocoa sector strategy to take
effect from the 1999/2000 crop season.
12. Privatisation:   Under the ERSO programme the Government adopted a revised list of 12
firms for privatisation. Six of these were outsourced for privatisation in 1998 and the rest are
scheduled to be outsourced shortly.
Lessons Learned
13. The intensive collaborative effort between GOG staff and World Bank staff during the
preparation of the ERSO ensured smooth implementation of the programme. Further, the
simplified disbursement procedures introduced by the World Bank in 1998 enabled the credit
to be disbursed immediately after credit effectiveness, thus avoiding the ardous task of
compiling various eligible but often out-dated import bills to support withdrawal
applications.
Conclusion
14. The GOG perceive these reform measures under the ERSO programme as part of the
building blocks for the achievement of the objectives of the Vision 2020 programme. It is
therefore determined to sustain the implementation of these reform measures to ensure macro
economic stability and accelerated development of the country.



20                                  ANNEX 2
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION (ERSO)
Revised Divestiture List (May 1998)
Name of Enterprise                 Planned Outsourcing Date      Status
Ghana Oil Company                  December, 1998               Done
Tema Oil Refinery                  June, 1999                   Done
Electricity Company                June, 1999                   Expected December, 1999
GNPC (non-core assets)             December, 1998               Done
Ghana Airways                      June, 1999                   Expected December, 1999
Ghana Ports & Harbours             June, 1999                   Done
Ghana Railways Corp                June, 1999                   Expected December, 1999
National Investment Bank           March, 1999                  Expected June, 1999
Cooperative Bank                   December, 1998               Privatization cancelled
Agricultural Development Bank      March, 1999                  Postponed
Bank for Housing and Construction    March, 1999                Privatization cancelled
Ghana Commercial Bank              April, 1999                  Expected June, 1999



IBRD 23606
3-                            5tl                                           0               5-                                                              2-
BURKINA FASO                                    r           Kulge
:t~~~ -a                                                                               ReeL    B w_)PuI,mokom                                                      '
N                           N
,m i             Yal    C                    -       c                               1
'  tQ     WA     ,   -                                                      - ge                               -         PRIMAkR ROADS
.  c r ( th 4 >'  y   j   >  <   WupfiPR SECONDARY   ROADS
t  s  NORTHE RNI                  Be ecu'   <       SabTERTIARY ROADS
00 0  X           _t+(  MLEgf '- -                                           'iends(?  ~ )   E RAILWAYS
<, Sawi= t < t<< _ < ~~~~~~~~~~~ _ Cs (3 ~~~~REGION HEADQUARTERS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
.I .                         Y0Zeoles g. \                                                                  REGION BOUNDARIES
The boundaries, colors,
COTE~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                                                         denominaEions and any
ot aher information, shown
MeosnEe   .            Sha,e'     a~~~~~~n this map  do  not
D'IVOIRE                                                                                                                    imply, on the part of
BieR Is      The World Bank Group,
3d ,, ..e  Cniodin,        /             any judgment on the legal
>   3   . /           g                g             \ @        /       |        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or any endorsement
/           - ~or acetnce o such
05o4mpe                                                                                                        i ) /KT=nnpo                            --,,, ,9Qss rtcng g>-OD=mbri ' boundaries  3'
7-,'   .'            E /  BRONG-AH   r     /
[ /; 3 r3 Atebubu <~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..     ........................ XX.)pol 03 03 IE
\     '            B          = ;        Et/                -      <         L         1      g   . (             ,    20   40   60   ro KU. 4ETERS
7  /                    . ..'' ..\              ', '  ,                                               ,          { 
!   X    .   ?   KUMA AI                                                       O ,   _  ,  :    X tA.  TOGO
- .., N  k =    Mpe; ;                  i        ;:taR  / HO
x           <s~~~~~~~~ibi=n   .S'F                                                   <|  t  
-sm                                                    KOFONtTE    A                             ~         ORaeokc
\,.. Af4S.... .......                      ENTRA     g. 
{) Enchlo ........ ,. ,\ ......... a- Enyin=br  z  t=f  lECwc'n, b  Ct0Ej  ;-idif 0 X '0 | iQ 0  loi iB N tI
WEPf£STERN   . '.;            x    ---?.    <  .;t,1v.;0  xi; t-jx ;V;;js i, t:. i,, 0ti0S:$,c, co Vot, 
^   ;%  it          u   \              J  X-v00:ijtji;,:gai0.E0Wxj  fll0'iiB:0j0=u-'I!E\                                                 L
gb=   qT.,kwc    . -   >                            i   ^ i i  ii | ;0 00 9  MAURITANA                G     /              \or
/ .     0000 0    t0;0ij     j ;;  Uii0 0iMAI*
FEBRUARY 1995



