Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No,: P 7247 GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONNA
PROPOSED ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
OF SDR 37.1 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
May 18, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Cedi (¢)
US $1                =      ¢2307 (April 24, 1998)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP           -      Accelerated Divestiture Program
AfDB          -      African Development Bank
BOG           -      Bank of Ghana
BPEMS         -      Budget and Public Expenditure Management Systems
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CG            -      Consultative Group Meeting
CISPIP        -      Civil Service Performance Improvement Program
CMAs          -      Central Management Agencies
COCOBOD    -         Ghana Cocoa Board
CRA;          -      Central Revenue Authority
DIC           -      Divestiture Implementation Committee
ERP           -      Economic Recovery Program
ERSO          -      Economic Reform Support Operation
ESAF          -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GCB           -      Ghana Commercial Bank
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GNPC          -      Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
IDA           -      International Development Association
IFC           -      International Finance Corporation
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
MIGA          -      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MTEF          -      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NIRP          -      National Institutional Renewal Program
NGOs          -      Non-Governmental Organizations
PFP           -      Policy Framework Paper
PSAC          -      Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PUFMARP    -         Public Financial Management Reforrm Program
PUSERMOS   -         Public Sector Re-Invention and Modernization Strategy
SAs           -      Subvented Agencies
SOEs          -      State-Owned Enterprises
SSB          -       Social Security Bank
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
Vice-President                               Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director                             Peter Harrold
Sector Manager                               Charles P. Humphreys
Lead Specialist                              Jose B. Sokol
Senior Country Economist                     Rocio Castro



REPUBLIC OF GHANA                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY.....
I. THE ECONOMY ...............................................................                                 1
A.   Background...............................................I
B.   Major Elements of the Reform Program ...
II. GHANA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ....................3
A. Restoring Macroeconomic Stability                                     .          .         .          3
(i) Fiscal Policies                                     .3
(ii) M[onetary and Financial Sector Policies                         .4
(iii) External Sector                                   .           .           .            4
B. Structural Reform Efforts                                       .            .           .5
(i) Promoting the Private Sector                               .5
(ii) Human Development and Poverty Reduction                            .6
(iii) Second Generation Reforms                               .         .          .         7
C. Medium-Terrm Outlook and Financing Requirements                                 .9
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ............................................................... 10
A.  Rationale for the Credit and Credit Description ........................................... .................... 10
B.  Credit Components ..............................................................                    II
(i) Macroeconomic Stability .............................................................. 11
(ii) Public Expenditure Management                ............................................... 12
(iii) Public Enterprise Reform ..............................................................  13
(iv) The National Institutional Renewal Program ............................................................ 13
C.  Specific Actions Supported By The Credit                 ................................................ 16
D.  Direction for Future Adjustment Programs ..............................................................  17
E.   Poverty Impact .............................................................. 18
F.   Link to the CAS ............................................................... 19
G.  Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation .                 ............................................... 19
H.   Program Benefits and Risks ..............................................................         20
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND COLLABORATION WITH OTHER
DONORS .............................................................. 20
V.   RECOMMENDATION .............................................................. 21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.    Matrix of Policy Actions
II.    Letter of Development Policy
III.   Ghana At-A-Glance
IV.   Key Economic Indicators
V.    External Financing Requirements
VI.   Status of Bank Group Operations
VII.   Timetable of Key Processing Events
VIII.  Impact Indicators
IX.   Policy Framework Paper
MAP: IBRD 23606



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Ghana
Amount:             SDR 37.1 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Description:        The proposed Credit will support the completion of an important phase in the
Ghanaian reform program. In particular, it recognizes the significant recent
progress made in restoring macroeconomic stability. Key steps in this regard
include: the increase in the primary domestic surplus in 1997 by 3 percentage
points of GDP; the passage of the VAT law in February 1998, laying the basis
for more efficient and equitable revenue base for the future; and the 90 percent
adjustments in water and electricity tariffs in the same month through the newly
created Public Utilities Regulatory Commission. The implementation of these
three key policies marks the completion of an important phase of policy
formulation, restoring considerable confidence at a critical juncture. The
proposed Credit also seeks to support the Government's efforts to lay the
foundations for the next phase of difficult and complex reforms in the areas of
public sector reform, public expenditure management, privatization and the
energy and cocoa sectors. The proposed Credit will help cover the external
financing requirements of Ghana in the context of a vulnerable external position
and low level of external reserves. It is proposed as a one-tranche operation, and
related policy actions will have been implemented prior to Board presentation.
Benefits:          Successful completion of the program  should enable the Government to
substantially improve fiscal performance and thus help maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework necessary to achieve sustained broad-based, private
sector-led growth and reduce poverty. The Government, through its policy
reforms, has signaled strong commitment and support to make achievement of
its economic programs more likely, in particular, by bringing down inflation and
supporting the external position.  The reduction in inflation will have a
beneficial impact on the poor, together with the protection of social sector
spending, and the preparation of the medium term expenditure programs for
health and education. The Bank will be recognizing the launching of a new,
deeper and more challenging phase of the reform program in areas which include
opening-up the energy sector, re-assessing the cocoa sector, undertaking
comprehensive public sector reforms, including that of the civil service, and
consolidating the privatization program efforts.



ii
Risks:             Given Ghana's recent up-and-down macroeconomic performance, there is a risk
of macroeconomic slippage for both economic and political reasons. However,
the Government is quite cognizant that the population at large has been hit
significantly hard by inflation and modest per-capita GDP growth, and that the
costs of repeated policy failure at this juncture would be very high indeed. The
Government is, thus, politically committed to having in place the necessary
policies that will underpin a process of sustained growth and poverty reduction.
There is also the risk that the ongoing energy crisis could jeopardize
macroeconomic performance by increasing fiscal pressures. In this regard, the
Government has initiated steps to encourage the private sector to rapidly add
capacity to the existing power generation. Finally, there is the possibility of
unanticipated external shocks adversely affecting the export prices of gold and
cocoa. However, the likelihood of such a risk materializing is minimal under
current world conditions.
Disbursement:      The Credit will be disbursed in one-tranche in an amount equivalent to US$50
million upon effectiveness. The program was designed to emphasize actions
taken prior to Credit approval to demonstrate, as indicated above, the
Government's progress in turning the fiscal situation around, and its commitment
to the program.
Map:               IBRD 23606



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A P]ROPOSED ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
1.    I submiit for your approval the following report and recommendation on the proposed
Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) to the Republic of Ghana for SDR 37.1 million, an
amount equivalent to about US$50 million, on standard IDA terms. The Credit is proposed as a
one-tranche operation, and would underpin the existing adjustment program. The proposed
Credit recognizes Ghana's recent significant progress made in restoring macroeconomic
stability. Key steps in this regard include the increase in the primary domestic surplus in 1997
by 3 percentage points of GDP; the passage of the VAT law in February 1998, laying the basis
for a more efficient and equitable revenue base for the future; and the 90 percent adjustments in
water and electricity tariffs in the same month through the newly created Public Utilities
Regulatory Commission, which effectively de-politicized the process of utility pricing. The
implementation of these three key policies marks the completion of an important phase of
reform in the Ghanaian adjustment program. The proposed Credit also seeks to endorse the
Government's efforts to lay the foundations for the next phase of difficult and complex reforms,
in the areas of public sector reform, public expenditure management, privatization, and the
energy and cocoa sectors. The operation would consolidate the privatization efforts that were
supported under the Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC), the third (and final) tranche of
which was released on April 16, 1998. Finally, the proposed Credit will assist in covering
Ghana's external financing gap for 1998.
1.    THE ECONOMY
A.    Background
2.    Since 1983, the Government of Ghana has implemented a gradualist adjustment strategy
under the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), designed to stabilize and liberalize the economy.
These reforms, covering public finance, the trade and foreign exchange regimes, the regulatory
environment, and the agriculture and financial sectors, have successfully turned the economy
around. In the decade prior to the introduction of the ERP, real Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
and per capita income growth declined by 1 percent and 5 percent per annum, respectively. In
the decade since, GDP and per capita income increased at average annual growth rates of 5 and
2 percent, respectively.
B.    Major Elements of the Reform Program
3.    Fiscal Policies. Initial efforts to stabilize the economy centered on reducing budgetary
deficits. The key objective of fiscal reform was to enhance revenue mobilization. The share of
government revenues rose from 6 percent of GDP in 1983 to 15 percent of GDP in 1991. Higher
revenue collection made it possible to reduce the fiscal deficit and, at the same time, increase
public investment in physical and social infrastructure, which had collapsed prior to the ERP.



2
The fiscal consolidation enabled inflation to be brought down from a peak of 142 percent in 1983
to 10 percent by the end of 1991. However, in the run-up to the elections of 1992, civil servants
secured a large wage increase and revenue collection slipped. As a result, the narrow fiscal
balance (including divestitures and grants) moved from a surplus of 1.5 percent of GDP in 1991
to a deficit of nearly 5 percent of GDP in 1992, money supply rose by more than 50 percent and
inflationary pressures re-emerged.
4.     Stabilization has returned to the top of the reform agenda following the fiscal shock of
1992. Ghana's problems since 1992 are rooted in recurrent lapses in financial discipline. In
1993-94 the Government made some progress in reducing fiscal and external imbalances: the
domestic primary balance shifted to a surplus of 0.8 percent of GDP in 1994, bolstered by
increased revenue from taxes on cocoa exports, while the external position was supported by
large privatization proceeds.  The budget outcome for 1995, however, was weaker than
programmed and the domestic primary balance was about 1.5 percentage points of GDP short of
target, because of overspending in the capital budget, particularly on roads. Large fiscal
slippages emerged during the second half of 1996. The 1996 budget deficit reached 10.4 percent
of GDP, owing to unbudgeted spending of about 3 percent of GDP. Domestic financing of the
budget rose to 5.1 percent of GDP, which increased interest payments and kept nominal and real
interest rates very high.
5.     Economic Liberalization Policies. Economic liberalization focused on removing price
controls and creating a market-friendly environment. Ghana shifted from a highly distorted trade
regime and a grossly overvalued multiple exchange rate system to the current liberal trade and
exchange rate regime. The exchange rate was gradually floated. Quantitative restrictions on
imports were removed, import tariffs reduced and rationalized, and export licensing abolished.
Investment restrictions and price controls (except for cocoa and petroleum) were eliminated.
Reforms of public enterprises were also initiated during the mid-1980s. The Government
progressively withdrew from the marketing of inputs and outputs in the agriculture sector and
began its program of divestiture of parastatals. In the financial sector, interest rates were
liberalized, sectoral lending allocations removed, bank portfolios restructured, and prudential
regulations and banking supervision strengthened.
6.     Outcomes of the 1992-96 Policies.   Ghana's political liberalization during 1992-96
was marked by growing fiscal difficulties. Higher than planned public spending worsened fiscal
imbalances and increased inflationary pressures. To finance the ensuing fiscal deficits and
absorb the excess liquidity in the financial system, the Government increasingly issued Treasury
bills. This resulted in a rapid increase in domestic debt, a rise in real interest rates, a sharp
increase in debt servicing requirements, and a crowding-out of private sector access to credit.
Though there have been substantial increases in the share of non-wage expenditure in social
spending, these gains have been eroded by the impact of inflation on the poor. It was against this
difficult macroeconomic setting that after the 1996 elections the Government began to formulate
its new economic program.



3
II.    GHANA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A.    Restoring Macroeconomic Stability
7.    The Government's main policy focus for the 1997-99 period is to substantially improve
fiscal performance. The Government aims at establishing a sustainable fiscal balance on the
basis of significant revenue reform, expenditure restraint (notably of non-interest outlays), and a
comprehensive reform of the public sector. In this regard, the Budget for 1998 capitalizes on
several key developments in 1997, such as continued economic growth, substantial
improvements in budgetary and monetary management, and a marked reduction of inflation.
(i)    Fiscal Policies
8.     1997 was a year of significant fiscal turnaround aimed at slowing-down inflation,
regaining macroeconomic stability and advancing the structural reform agenda. The domestic
primary surplus reached 3.3 percent of GDP, the highest since the ERP was launched in 1983,
and up from 0.3 percent in 1996. As a result of the fiscal tightening, however, real GDP growth
is estimated at 3.0 percent in 1997, compared to 5.2 percent in 1996.1
9.    Expeniditure Policy. The fiscal adjustment in 1997 addressed the root cause of fiscal
slippage in past years and was achieved entirely through expenditure restraint. Non-interest
spending fell by 4.6 percentage points of GDP as a result of reductions across all expenditure
categories. The wage bill declined by about 0.5 percent of GDP, while subventions and
transfers, a significant part of which are wage-related, dropped by about 1 percent of GDP.
Spending on goods and services and domestically-financed capital projects also fell relative to
GDP due to the non-recurrence of unprogrammed expenditures from 1996. However, interest
payments on domestic debt rose from the already high level of 4.2 percent of GDP in 1996 to 4.7
percent in 1997. This reflected a rapidly rising trend in domestic debt (through the issuance of
Treasury bills) and a high Treasury bill rate which has remained around 40 percent since 1995.
The stock of domestic debt amounted to cedi 2,142 billion (or about US$930 million) at the end
of 1997.
10.   Revenue Policy. Revenue fell by 1.6 percentage points of GDP in 1997, mainly on
account of lower collections of petroleum taxes -- reflecting the erosion of specific duties by
inflation and a drop in cocoa export duties because of a decrease in the volume of exports.
However, the Government continued to improve the efficiency and buoyancy of the tax system.
Specifically, it removed a number of exemptions and advised that any customs exemptions must
be approved by Parliament. Monitoring of customs exemptions in general was strengthened, and
duty-free imports under public and donor-funded projects substantially reduced. These actions,
together with the cutback of tax and customs exemptions, significantly strengthened collections
of duties and sales tax on imported goods.
11.   The cornerstone of the Government's tax reform is the replacement of the present sales
and services taxes with a value added tax (VAT). The VAT law was passed by Parliament in
February 1998, and the tax is to take effect in December 1998. Consistent with the intended
i   Based on preliminary IMF estimates; the official estimate is 5.1 percent.



4
coverage of the VAT and in order to raise additional revenue, the Government extended the
services tax in 1997 to cover a broad range of professional services. Furthermore, the tax on
lotteries is now being collected and a revised income tax assessment for self-employed taxpayers
is being enforced. The tax audit program has been strengthened and the tax withholding authority
of revenue agencies has been expanded.
(ii)    Monetary and Financial Sector Policies
12.    Monetary Policy.   In 1997, monetary policy continued to be dominated by the
Government's large financing requirements with broad money increasing by an estimated 41
percent. The Bank of Ghana (BOG) applied a uniform reserve requirement of 8 percent to all
deposits as of March 1997. This action has resulted in uniform treatment of foreign currency
and cedi deposits, and effectively has increased overall reserve requirements. In 1998, reflecting
lower projected government domestic financing needs, broad money is expected to grow by 18
percent and in line with the growth of the economy thereafter. Reserve money growth is
projected to decline to 17 percent in 1998. Thus, the inflation rate, which fell from 33 percent in
end- 1996 to 21 percent in 1997, is expected to decline further to about 11 percent by end- 1998.
13.   In early 1996, BOG discontinued its practice of issuing Treasury bills in retail auctions
and, in 1997, discontinued its practice of tapping sales for small investors. Government paper is
instead being issued in wholesale auctions, and BOG is developing a network of primary dealers.
After sufficient preparation, namely the introduction of a centralized book entry system in 1998,
BOG will implement its liquidity operations mainly through short-term repurchase agreements
with these dealers. This will not only improve the effectiveness of BOG's operations, but also
stabilize the auctions of government paper.
(iii)   External Sector
14.   In 1997, declining export receipts from cocoa and gold were more than off-set by lower
import levels resulting from tighter financial policies. The external current account deficit as a
share of GDP (excluding external grants) narrowed from 8.3 percent in 1996 to 6.4 percent in
1997. Increased external grants and positive net capital flows led to a small surplus in the
overall balance of payments (US$25 million). However, gross international reserves fell below
three months of import equivalent as the BOG reduced its external liabilities.
15.   Ghana's stock of public external debt stood at about US$6.3 billion at the end of 1997,
or about 94 percent of GDP. In net present value terms, the external public debt was estimated at
225 percent of exports of goods and services. The country's external debt service ratio rose
substantially from 27.1 percent in 1996 to 33.7 percent in 1997, largely reflecting the impact of
excessive non-concessional borrowing during 1996 and early 1997, and the need to settle
deferred payments to the Paris Club. The share of external debt service in total government
revenues also climbed to 46.2 percent in 1997 from 38.7 percent the previous year.



5
B.    Structural Reform Efforts
16.   While moving to address the fundamental macroeconomic imbalances, the Government
has continued to deepen reforms in a number of structural areas. In addition to furthering
progress in private sector development and poverty reduction, the Government also has begun to
develop approaches to "second generation" reforms relating to the role of the state in Ghana.
(i)    Promoting the Private Sector
17.   Incentives for cocoa farmers were improved through an increase in the share of the f.o.b.
price of cocoa that accrues to farmers, from 51 percent in the 1996/97 crop year to 54 percent in
the current crop year. Moreover, a further opening of domestic cocoa marketing was announced.
Important reforms were also undertaken in the energy sector. The system of automatic price
adjustments for petroleum products was reinstated with the adoption of a new ex-refinery pricing
formula. As part of this formula, an ad-valorem excise tax of 15 percent was recently added to
the specific excise tax on petroleum products. In August 1997, the Ghana National Petroleum
Corporation (GNPC) began repaying its long-standing debt to BOG. The Government also
withdrew its commitment to guarantee any non-concessional borrowing by GNPC for the
intended Tano Field Development and Power Project, and these projects will now proceed only if
significant private equity participation is secured.
18.   The Government has also sought enhanced competition in commercial banking through a
program of divestiture of publicly-owned commercial banks, including the Social Security Bank
(SSB) and the Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB). Majority share holdings in SSB passed into
private hands in 1996, as foreign strategic investors obtained management control. Forty-two
percent of the shares of GCB were divested through a public offering in 1996, and negotiations
with a strategic investor were conducted in 1997. However, these negotiations could not be
concluded due to complications arising from Bank of England regulations governing the sale of
the London branch of GCB. The Government has therefore decided to seek alternative strategic
investors for GCB, having already separated the GCB London branch into a separate entity.
Financial sector reforms will continue in 1998, with the divestiture of the National Investment
Bank and the State Insurance Company. Overall banking supervision is being strengthened in
order to safeguard the soundness of the banking system.
19.   There has also been considerable legislation enacted to promote private investment.
These include the Free Zones Act (1995), Ghana Investment Promotion Act (1994), the
Securities Industries Law (1992), the Non-Bank Financial Institutions Law (1992), the Bank of
Ghana Law (1992) and the Banking Law (1989). Private investment trends, however, reveal
relatively weak response to these reforms. Private investment peaked in 1991 at 8.1 percent of
GDP but declined to 2.9 percent in 1994 and has remained at about that level. Given the need to
accelerate economic growth and reduce poverty, private investment needs to grow more rapidly.
In order to achieve this, priority will be given to maintaining a stable and viable macroeconomic
framework. This, in turn, will create the conditions conducive to increase private savings. Other
priorities include improving the quality of the social and economic infrastructure, and
undertaking reforms to enhance the legal and regulatory framework for promoting private
participation in economic activities. In this regard, the Government created in February 1998, a
fully independent Road Fund, financed from an increase in the petroleum tax at a level sufficient
to guarantee routine and periodic maintenance.



6
20.   In 1997, the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission was established to regulate power
and water, and to provide an appropriate regulatory framework for private participation. As a
first step to restore the financial viability of the utilities, the Commission raised electricity and
water tariffs by roughly 90 percent. Preparation of the Gateway Trade and Investment Program
is underway. The program aims to attract a critical mass of investors in non-traditional exports
by providing the off-site infrastructure for a privately owned free trade zone. The program also
entails reorganizing the customs and immigration services and enhancing the investment
promotion program.
21.    Accelerated Divestiture Program (ADP).   Under the ADP, launched in 1995, 139
state owned enterprises were handed over to the Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC)
for divestiture. As of January 1998, DIC had completed 50 divestitures (out of 200), and its
work program consisted of 53 divestitures in progress, of which twenty had been contracted out
to consultants. Notably, the divestiture of Ghana Telecom was completed in 1996.
22.    An ad-hoc divestiture process characterized the program prior to the adoption of the
ADP. Hence, a major objective of the ADP has been to enhance public confidence in the
process.  The strategy entails the implementation of a comprehensive public information
program: (i) dissemination of the procedures for divestiture, including those for subcontracting
implementation to private firms; (ii) wide distribution of DIC's annual reports and audited
financial statements; and (iii) an assessment of the program's impact and the actions intended to
mitigate any negative effects.
23.    The program is now entering a new phase where the focus  will be on reducing
government equity in larger economically significant enterprises. A major step was a recent
Cabinet decision to seek Parliamentary approval of an amendment to the Statutory Corporations
(Conversion to Companies) Act. The amendment would convert 24 state-owned enterprises
from statutory to company status, thereby allowing their divestiture where appropriate.
(ii)    Human Development and Poverty Reduction
24.    After a marked decline during the 1970s and early 1980s, social indicators improved
during 1983-92. The poverty incidence fell between 1987 and 1992 from 36 percent to 31
percent. The reduction in poverty was predominantly a rural phenomenon, brought about by the
growth of non-farm income, while urban poverty increased over the same period. Most of
Ghana's social indicators compare favorably with average levels for Sub-Saharan Africa. Life
expectancy is 59 years compared with 52 for Sub-Saharan Africa, and the infant mortality rate is
73 per thousand live births compared with 92 for Sub-Saharan Africa. Similarly, the gross
primary school enrollment ratio has increased to 76 percent while the ratio for Sub-Saharan
Africa as a whole is 72 percent, with male and female primary enrollment rates at 83 and 70
percent, respectively (compared to 78 and 65 percent for the region). However, the deterioration
in the macroeconomic environment since 1992 has worsened poverty conditions and raises
concern about the sustainability of the gains achieved in the preceding decade.
25.   In order to accomplish its social development objectives, the Government has
emphasized the reorientation of resources to the social sectors and to poverty reduction
programs. The share of education in total domestically-financed expenditures has increased



7
from 12 percent in 1994 to 14.6 percent 1997. The share of health in total expenditures has also
increased during this period, from 4.6 to 5 percent, but is still below the 8.2 percent level reached
in 1991. At the same time, the proportion of the national budget allocated towards poverty
programs has consistently been on the increase since 1994. The 1998 Budget makes a provision
of cedi 150 billion (about US$65 million) to fund these programs. This is in addition to the cedi
141 billion (about US$60 million) allocated to the District Assemblies Common Fund in order to
finance the provision of basic services and employment generation schemes at the local level.
26.    The Government has launched a series of targeted interventions in order to protect those
who have not directly benefited from overall economic growth. These efforts are focused at the
local and community levels. Main programs include: the District Assemblies Common Fund, the
National Program for Poverty Reduction, the Village Infrastructure Project, the Social
Investment Fund, and micro-finance and rural-finance schemes. Under these schemes, resources
are channeled directly to poor groups and communities through District Assemblies, non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), community-based organizations and grassroots
organizations, for the implementation of projects that benefit the poor.
27.   A new Accelerated Agricultural Growth Strategy has been drafted with support from
the World Bank. Besides its objectives of ensuring food security, creating rural employment
opportunities, reducing rural-urban disparities and strengthening support services at the local
level, the strategy proposes to promote agricultural growth through large-scale private-sector
commercial production. Accordingly, plantation agriculture and out-grower schemes will be
encouraged, but not to the disadvantage of small-scale farmers who currently produce the bulk of
Ghana's food needs and cocoa for exports. The Government is preparing a sector-wide program
to coordinate support from all donors involved in agriculture-related activities.
(iii)   Second Generation Reforms
28.   Public Service Reforms. Reforming the public sector to improve its capabilities and
efficiency is crucial for enhanced service delivery and the formulation and implementation of
policy. It is also essential for fiscal stability that a sustainable wage bill be established, vAhile at
the same time ensuring that adequate remuneration increases are provided to civil servants.
Without such improvements in incentives, it will be impossible to achieve an adequate flow of
professional and technical skills into the public sector or to maintain and upgrade existing skills.
29.   Broad and ambitious reforms have been on the Government's agenda for many years.
These include:
*  the Civil Service Performance Improvement Program  (CISPIP), which focuses on
performance improvements within the civil service;
*  the Public Financial Management Reform  Program  (PUFMARP), aimed at improving
financial management through the introduction of new systems and procedures, including a
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF);
* a new incomes policy, including reforms to the system of remuneration, grading and
classification;



8
*  a program to strengthen the policy review and decision-making process within the Executive
and Cabinet;
*  reform of the Subvented Agencies (SAs -- implementing agencies set-up by statute or
executive order to provide public services which derive their funding from subsidies
explicitly included in the budget), aimed at improving efficiency and reducing financial
pressures on the budget;
*  legal sector reforms to facilitate the promotion of the private sector;
*  restructure of state-owned enterprises which remain in public hands to enhance efficiency
and profitability; and
*  the Gateway Project, to build the capacities of institutions which serve investors.
30.    As these reforms had developed in the absence of an overall vision and strategy, the
Government created the National Institutional Renewal Program (NIRP) in 1994, in an effort to
give strategic direction to the reforms. After several years of workshops and many studies, the
NIRP Secretariat moved decisively in 1997, under the leadership of its new Chairman, the Vice-
President, to produce a strategy and plan for a renewed reform effort, scheduled to begin in mid-
1998. The Public Sector Re-Invention and Modernization Strategy (PUSERMOS) provides an
integrated framework to guide, coordinate and monitor these reforms. The strategy presents an
overall framework within which the Government will coordinate the various activities and
addresses key weaknesses: structural and organizational fragmentation; overlapping of functions;
the confused regulatory regime; and the weakness of systems for planning, budgeting, managing
and monitoring by outputs or outcomes. Action plans and timetables have been prepared for
those crucial activities which are prerequisites for successful implementation of the reform
agenda, and which will be supported by the Credit (see paragraphs 61 and 62).
31.   Decentralization. The Government has embarked on a process of decentralizing its
current highly centralized structure, both at the political and administrative levels. As part of
these efforts, the District Common Fund has been established, and by Constitution receives not
less than 5 percent of all domestic tax revenues. In addition, several other sources of funds and
administrative responsibilities are being decentralized, notably the new Ghana Health Service
and the Ministry of Agriculture (with an associated doubling in the number of extension staff
located in the Districts). Moreover, resources from the Village Infrastructure Project are to be
channeled via the District Assemblies Common Fund. The Social Investment Fund (to be
established shortly) will also disburse funds at the district level.  In addition, the Ghana
Education Service is already highly decentralized.   As this trend continues, district
administrations, which are very weak, will need to strengthen their financial management,
expenditure allocation, and implementation capabilities. In this regard, the up-coming Local
Government Act will create the administrative and accounting framework for the 110 district
authorities. To this end, the Cabinet recently held a 3-day retreat on the future of decentralized
government. This is an evolving area of government policy that will pose major challenges in
the coming years.
32.    Regulation. As the Government withdraws from the direct provision of services -- both
through privatization and removal of entry barriers -- it recognizes that there is a new role for the
state to play in terms of the regulation of these activities. In this context, the Government has



9
established the P'ublic Utilities Regulatory Commission, to review pricing and standards on the
water and electricity sectors; the Energy Commission, to issue licenses to independent power
suppliers; and the National Communications Agency, to oversee the telecommunications sector.
As the privatization of other services proceeds, such as civil aviation and ports and railways,
additional regulatory agencies may be proposed. For this reason, the Government now considers
that it would be more appropriate to establish one overall regulatory commission, with general
oversight responsibility, and which could provide common services in accounting, economic
analysis, legal services, etc. Below these common services would be the specialized services
needed to deal vvith specific sectors, although much of the expertise that the regulatory agency
would require would be contracted on an as-needed basis.
C.     Medium-Term Outlook and Financing Requirements
33.    Medium-term macroeconomic prospects for Ghana assume political stability, successful
stabilization, implementation of the policy agenda for private sector growth, and adequate public
spending on social services and rural infrastructure. Real GDP growth is projected to increase to
5.8 percent in 2000. Growth is expected to be broad-based and derived from increases in
agricultural productivity, and private investments in manufacturing, mining and services.
Investment and savings are projected to increase, reaching 20 percent and 12 percent of GDP
respectively by 2000, gradually narrowing the investment-savings gap. Concessional external
assistance will continue to play a significant role in Ghana's economic development.
Table 1. Ghana: Selected Economic Indicators, 1994-2000
f f ;-: ~~Actuals -                     siae-Prjvtins--
1994   195 1996    99           9S 1999   2000
(annual % change)
Real GDP                               3.8    4.5    5.2    3.0    5.6    5.8    5.8
Consumer Prices (end-period)          34.2   70.8   32.7   20.8   11.0    5.5    5.0
(as % of GDP)
Domestic Revenue                      19.7   21.4   19.2   17.6   18.3   18.7   18.8
Total Grants                           3.7    3.8    3.0    0.9    2.9    1.7    1.6
Total Expenditure                     32.8   31.8   32.6   27.2   27.5   24.4   23.8
Overall Balance                       -9.3   -6.7  -10.4   -8.6   -6.3   -4.0   -3.4
Domestic Primary Balance               0.8    1.6    0.3    3.3    3.8    3.8    3.9
Net Domestic Borrowing                -0.8   -0.4    5.1    5.2    3.1    2.9    1.4
Current Account Balance 1/            -5.1   -2.3   -5.0   -3.3   -4.2   -3.9   -3.7
Current Account Balance 2/            -9.0   -6.5   -8.3   -6.4   -7.3   -6.6   -5.4
Gross International Reserves 3/        4.1    4.6    3.4    2.8    2.7    2.9    3.1
External Public Debt (US$bn)           5.7    5.8    6.2    6.3    6.6    6.8    6.9
External Debt Service ratio (%) 4/    27.0   35.4   27.1   33.7   34.0   28.3   22.8
Source: Government of Ghana and staff projections.
1/ Including external grants.
2/ Excluding external grants.
3/ In months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
4/ In percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services.



10
34.    Export prospects are good, reflecting the positive external economic climate and the
liberalized domestic environment. The current account deficit, including official transfers, is
projected to average around 4 percent of GDP over the next three years. Gross international
reserves are projected to remain at around 3-months imports through the year 2000. Adherence
to the Government's fiscal and monetary targets should permit it to maintain a stable real
exchange rate and thus help preserve Ghana's external competitiveness. The external debt
service ratio (as a percentage of goods and non-factor services) is projected to decline to below
25 percent by the year 2000. This decline in the debt service ratio will be buttressed by the
Government's recent decision to impose a moratorium on non-concessional borrowing.
35.    External financing requirements over the 1998-99 period would total about US$1.6
billion. While adequate financing has been identified for 1998 (including this proposed Credit),
a residual gap of US$108 million has been estimated for 1999 which, however, is likely to be
covered by additional concessional assistance as indicated by donors at the Consultative Group
Meeting (CG) held on November 4-5, 1997.
III.   THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.    Rationale for the Credit and Credit Description
36.    The proposed Credit has been designed on the "High Impact Adjustment Lending"
model of the Africa Region. It is proposed as a one-tranche operation, and related policy actions
will have been implemented prior to Board presentation. The proposed operation would support
the completion of an important phase in the Ghanaian reform program. It was noted earlier how
the program had gone seriously off-track in 1995-96. A first attempt at introducing a VAT in
1995 was aborted after a few months; an electricity tariff increase of over 200 percent was
withdrawn in 1996 shortly after it was announced; and the fiscal deficit ballooned to 10.4 percent
of GDP in 1996. Addressing these three key macroeconomic issues was fundamental to
establishing the basis for the resumption of sustainable economic growth.
37.    Thus, the proposed operation recognizes the significant recent progress made in restoring
macroeconomic stability. Key steps in this regard include the increase in the primary domestic
surplus in 1997 by 3 percentage points of GDP; the passage of the VAT law in February 1998,
laying the basis for a more efficient and equitable revenue base for the future; and the 90 percent
adjustments in water and electricity tariffs in the same month through the newly created Public
Utilities Regulatory Commission, which effectively de-politicized the process of utility pricing.
The implementation of these three key policies marks the completion of an important phase of
policy formulation, restoring considerable confidence at a critical juncture. Prior policy failures
in these same areas make these accomplishments that much more significant, and provides the
essential basis that the Bretton Woods Institutions had established as necessary preconditions for
the restoration of support.
38.   This proposed Credit can therefore be seen to close an important phase of reform.
Moreover, it also seeks to support the Government's efforts to lay the foundations for the next
phase of difficult and complex reforms. These will include: implementing a comprehensive
public sector reform program; improving public expenditure management and allocations;
deepening the privatization program, both in terms of the economic significance of the
enterprises to be privatized as well as the transparency of the process; significantly restructuring



11
the energy sector and the role of the state in the provision of energy; and further enhancing the
growth prospects of the cocoa sector. In undertaking these steps the Government is giving clear
signals as to its future reform intentions, and has indicated the signposts by which its programs
will be evaluated.  Finally, the proposed Credit will help cover the external financing
requirements of Ghana, in the context of a vulnerable external position and low level of external
reserves.
B.    Credit Components
(i)    Macroeconomic Stability
39.    The Government's overall medium term goal is to secure a stable macroeconomic
environment to support private sector-led growth, thereby creating employment, increasing
incomes, and reducing poverty. The Government's economic program for 1998, in support of
which it requested the second annual arrangement under the IMF's Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF), aims to consolidate the reforms begun in 1997. Broad money
growth and the budget deficit will be reduced further in 1998, in line with Government's
inflation target.
40.   Fiscal Adjustment Objectives. The fiscal adjustment is guided by the need to generate
the savings needed to achieve significant domestic primary surpluses, which, in turn support
external current account objectives. Specifically, the primary surplus is projected to approach
4 percent of GDP and the overall budget deficit (on a commitment basis) to decline to below
7 percent of GDP. The budget projects an increase in tax revenue of about 1 percent of GDP,
driven in part by a 0.3 percent of GDP increase in sales tax revenue. Tax collection in general
will be improved through reform of the tax administration. An important element in this
projection is the introduction of the VAT with effect from December 1, 1998. As part of a tariff
rationalization in a regional context, the Government introduced, jointly with the 1998 budget
legislation, a shift of a number of previously zero-rated items to a new tariff rate of 5 percent, in
addition to the existing rates of 10 percent and 25 percent. As a result, and following last year's
cutbacks in customs exemptions, the effective import duty rate is expected to rise further to 8.6
percent. Along with the expected rebound in imports and cocoa exports, trade tax collections are
projected to rise by 0.6 percent of GDP.
41.   Passage of the VAT. The draft VAT law was first tabled in Parliament in July 1997,
featuring the following important and desirable aspects: a single positive rate (15 percent), broad
coverage and limited exemptions, zero-rating limited to exports, a refund system restricted to
exporters and taxpayers who have carried forward excess credits for six months, an appropriate
threshold and sound administrative features. The VAT law was finally passed on February 17,
1998, but with some important modifications. First, the tax rate was set at 10 percent instead of
the 15 percent proposed by the Government. This compares with VAT rates in neighboring
countries in the 17-20 percent range. Second, the refund system was extended to taxpayers
carrying forwarcd credits for only three months.  This has the potential for substantially
increasing the number of claims for refunds, thus straining the capacity of the tax administration
to administer refunds properly and inviting abuse of the refund system. Once the VAT is fully in
place, consideratiion will need to be given to restoring the important aspects included in its initial
tabling. In the meantime, the Government is stepping up the public information campaign
launched in November 1997 to enhance public acceptance. It issued regulations for the



12
implementation of the VAT by end-April 1998 and plans to complete the assignment of taxpayer
identification numbers by September 1998. The import withholding tax will be applied to
importers not registered for the VAT.
42.   Tax Administration.  In order to strengthen the administration of all taxes, an
independent Central Revenue Authority (CRA) will be established by September 1998. A
specific task of the CRA will be to ensure smooth implementation of the VAT by the intended
effective date of December 1, 1998. The CRA will be responsible for administering the taxpayer
identification number system, monitoring the collection and audit activities of the revenue
agencies, and designing and implementing uniform personnel policies. Creation of the CRA is
expected to lead to efficiency gains in tax administration through incentives and performance
monitoring.
(ii)   Public Expenditure Management
.43.   The Government recognizes that better public expenditure management requires the
development of new tools, both for the management and control of expenditures, as well as for
the allocation of budget funds. During 1997, the Government embarked on a comprehensive
improvement of its procedures for budgetary planning, implementation and monitoring under the
PUFMARP. This program is being supported by the World Bank, the IMF, and other donors.
As a first step, the Government finalized the design of the new Budget and Public Expenditure
Management System (BPEMS), which is expected to be fully operational by the end of the year
2000.  Once implemented, the system  will support better budgetary preparation and
implementation, improved cash management, and strengthened accounting functions, all on an
integrated, computerized basis. Other sub-components of the program include strengthening aid
and debt management, revenue management, the audit function, and improvements in
procurement procedures.
44.   To accompany the expenditure management systems, the Government has embarked on
the development of an MTEF. The MTEF is a process designed to integrate the process of
making sectoral policy decisions and setting priorities with budgetary allocations. Under an
MTEF, sectoral policy decisions are integrated with a rolling, three-year macroeconomic and
budgetary framework. Activities, such as the provision of primary education for one child, or
maintaining one kilometer of feeder road, are costed, as the basis for estimating what policy
targets can be achieved at different levels of sectoral budget. The aim of the Government's
program in this area is to implement the MTEF for three priority sectors (health, education and
roads) in its fiscal year 1999, and in all sectors from year 2000 onwards.
45.   As part of this program, the 1999 Budget Guidelines, to be issued in mid-June 1998, will
include a macroeconomic framework consistent with the Policy Framework Paper (PFP), and
will provide indicative budget ceilings for each Ministry, Department, or Agency for the next
three years, consistent with the available resources. The Budget Guidelines will also provide
clear instructions on how the MTEF is to be implemented through the MTEF manual. By the
end of October 1998, the Cabinet is expected to have approved the sectoral expenditure
programs for three priority sectors in detail for 1999, and on a preliminary basis for the next two
years. While the rest of the sectors would not have activities costed on an MTEF basis, they will
present their budgets on an MTEF program basis (agricultural extension, rural health care, for



13
example). T hus, the first year of the three-year MTEF becomes the actual budget for 1999,
which would be laid before Parliament by December 1, 1998.
(iii)   Public Enterprise Reform
46.    While important progress has been achieved in the public enterprise reform area, the
program is now entering a new phase both in terms of the significance of the enterprises to be
addressed and the need to increase the transparency of the reform process.
47.    The existing legal framework for divestiture has several deficiencies that need to be
addressed in order to improve the effectiveness of DIC. Thus, the Divestiture of State Interests
Law will be amended to (i) empower the Minister to issue regulations, which will clarify and/or
expand the provisions of the legislation and to provide the detailed statutory basis upon which
the policies and activities are to be carried out by DIC; (ii) to provide DIC with the authority to
approve sales; and (iii) to clarify DIC's role as the sole reporting agency for the divestiture
transactions. The regulations will articulate the Government's policies and, in particular, spell
out the methodology to be applied by DIC in relation to issues such as valuation of assets,
treatment of liabilities, pricing, the bidding process, form of accounts, advertising, distribution of
proceeds of sale, redundancy issues and relationships with the management of state-owned
enterprises and staff. The regulations would also serve to regulate the outsourcing program and
to legitimize the forms and procedures contained in the DIC Procedures Manual.
48.   In May 1998, the Government revised its divestiture list to include economically
significant state owned corporations as part of their preparation for privatization and/or private
sector participation. These include non-core GNPC assets, the Tema Oil Refinery, Ghana
Airways, Ghana Oil Company, Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, Ghana Ports and
Harbours Authority, Ghana Railways Corporation, and the remaining state-owned banks
(including GCB, the National Investment Bank, and the Agricultural Development Bank). The
list includes a provisional timetable for the divestiture of the corporations, and will be published
in the local and international press and the DIC website.
49.   In order to ensure the smooth implementation of the next phase of the divestiture
program, the Government will outsource the divestiture process for all economically significant
enterprises and recruit qualified investment banks/consulting firms to formulate and implement
the appropriate divestiture strategy for each enterprise.  In addition, the Government has
launched a public information program to improve public awareness of the divestiture program.
A major feature of the program will be the dissemination of information on each divestiture
transaction, including the number of bidders selected, the name of the winning bidder and the
value of the transaction. The Government also intends to disseminate the findings of the
forthcoming impact assessment as well as DIC's audited financial statements for 1996 and 1997.
(iv)   The National Institutional Renewal Program
50.    While much has been done to adjust the role of the state in the economy, little has been
done to address the functioning of the public sector itself. As noted earlier, after much analytical
work, the Government is now moving to the implementation phase of its public sector reform



14
program, notably, in the areas of (i) the Cabinet process, (ii) public sector regulation; (iii) the
Subvented Agencies.
51.    Supporting the Cabinet Process. Several studies carried out during the preparation of
NIRP have found that policies presented to Cabinet by sectoral and central ministries and
agencies do not always conform with necessary standards. To address this problem, the
Government has begun a program to strengthen the review and coordination of policies in the
Offices of the President and Vice-President and within the Cabinet Secretariat.
52.   The Credit will support efforts to strengthen the policy review process and thereby to
equip the Cabinet and the Executive to make informed decisions concerning policies, policy
options and trade-offs. Proposals will be systematically examined to ensure that: (i) they have
been prepared on the basis of consultation and coordination among ministries; (ii) planning of
implementation and evaluation is an integral part of the design; and (iii) all proposals requiring
financial resources have been discussed with the Ministry of Finance and the budgetary
implications are clearly spelled out.
53.   The Government has selected key professional staff to support the Cabinet process
function. Each analyst will support a particular Cabinet sub-committee: finance and economics;
social sectors; infrastructure and utilities; legal, political and security; and the new Sub-
Committee on Public Sector Reform. This Sub-Committee, whose creation has been approved
by Cabinet, will address public sector reform issues which do not fall within the remit of the
finance and economics sub-committee, such as structure and organization, decentralization and
local government, and personnel management.
54.   It is recognized that the policy review function will only succeed if other organizational
and management weaknesses within the Office of the President and the Cabinet Secretariat are
addressed. In this regard, a four-step development plan has been designed. The Credit will
support the first two phases which will involve: (i) inventory, evaluation and recommendation of
changes for the various entities which are now part of the Office of the President; reviewing and
improving records management; and (ii) reviewing and reorganizing the Cabinet Secretariat:
functions, systems and procedures; preparing a Cabinet Handbook which will serve as a basic
guide and source book for the systems and procedures; and preparing the next phase which will
consist of capacity development and training.  It is expected that the first phase will be
completed by end-1998, the second by end-1999.
55.   Reform of the Central Management Agencies (CMAs).  The CMAs include: the
Office of the President; the Cabinet; the National Development Planning Commission; the Office
of Head of Civil Service; the Ministry of Finance; and the Public Service Commission. These
agencies are at the core of Government. Their role is to regulate and manage the entire public
sector and to ensure that generic budgetary, personnel and legal policies and practices are carried
out in a coherent and coordinated manner.  Analysis shows that imprecise regulatory
responsibilities combined with management weakness have led to the following system-wide
problems: (i) mismatch between policies and resources; (ii) overlapping, lack of clarity and
duplication of roles and functions; (iii) lack of uniform standards and guidelines; and (iv) poor
operational performance and lack of accountability. Putting a more coherent and transparent
regulatory environment in place is therefore an absolute prerequisite for launching the reforms,
since these are the very bodies which will have to implement the reform agenda.



15
56.   The Credit supports the first phase of Government's program to reform CMAs. This
phase, which will target the Ministry of Finance and the Public Service Commission, will
include: (i) a ifunctional analysis of activities undertaken by the CMAs in the areas of: personnel
management and development; financial and budgetary planning and management; strategic
planning and policy development; and control and administration functions in personnel and
budget functions. This work will be complemented by parallel efforts already underway to
reform the budget planning and management cycle, improve support to Cabinet decision-making,
etc. This component will be completed by the end of 1998; (ii) recommendations for realigning
functions among the CMAs; (iii) a set of focus group discussions, led by the Vice-President, on
the recommendations and development of a consensus; and (iv) costing and planning a program
to reform ancl realign these functions, based on the agreed upon restructuring, definition of
mandates, and new patterns of interrelationships among the agencies. The last three components
will be completed by end-1999.
57.   Reform of the Subvented Agencies. The bulk of Ghana's public sector activities takes
place within the large and diverse SAs sector. The sector includes important agencies such as
the Education Service, the Health Service, the universities, the Highways Authority, as well as a
myriad of smaller agencies, boards commissions, institutes, etc. It has long been recognized that
the sector, which presently employs over two-thirds of the civilian public servants in over 170
agencies, must be reduced in size and scope in order to focus the public sector on its defined
priorities, reduce the fiscal burden  and  enhance policy development and service delivery
through improved management and better incentives.
58.   Considerable analytical work has been done on the sector over the last two years under
the NIRP. The basic conclusion is that the performance of the sector has been unsatisfactory
because of internal managerial deficiencies and external regulatory problems triggered by the
fragmented supervisory and regulatory environment.  These deficiencies have abetted
overspending and other arbitrary behaviors which have played havoc with fiscal discipline. The
reform agenda is therefore considerable.  It comprises changes to the sectoral legal and
governance framework, reforms of the agencies planning, budgeting, personnel management,
financial management, and performance evaluation, and addresses the basic question of the need
for the existence of each of these agencies
59.   The Credit will support a pilot program to close down or restructure selected agencies,
as well as the preparation of a fully costed three-year action program to reform the whole sector.
At the same time, work on the regulatory regime of the CMAs will prepare the way for better
management and control over the SAs. Cabinet has already stipulated that once the Public
Service Comrnission is strengthened and its mandate clarified, it should take on oversight
responsibility for these agencies.
60.   Cabinet has approved a list of candidate SAs to be closed down, partially
commercialized, or wholly commercialized. The pilot phase, to be completed by end-1999, will
involve the closure of at least five SAs, targeting those that will generate the largest budgetary
savings; the partial commercialization of at least seven SAs (at least 30 percent of whose
expenditures will be removed from the budget), and the full commercialization of five SAs.
Cabinet approval of the specific SAs to be targeted in the pilot phase will take place by end-
1998. The legal framework and procedures for closing down or commercializing SAs created
by statute will be enacted by October 31, 1998. As part of this program, the Government will



16
develop out-placement and re-deployment initiatives to assist employees made redundant. The
pilot, as well as planning for the subsequent phase, will be completed by end- 1 999.
C.    Specific Actions Supported by the Credit
61.   Prior to negotiations of the Credit, the Government:
i. promulgated the VAT Act and has established the VAT at a rate of 10 percent;
ii. established the Tax Identification Numbering System for all tax payers so as to
harmonize tax collection information and monitor compliance by tax payers with the
various taxes as specified in the relevant legislation;
iii. adopted the Medium Term Expenditure Framework which includes a three-year
rolling plan for the allocation of resources;
iv. enacted the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission Act and has established the
Public Utilities Regulatory Commission which is responsible for regulating the
water and power sectors;
v. enacted the Energy Commission Act and has established the Energy Commission
which is responsible for implementing policies under a restructured energy sector;
vi. implemented significant tariff increases in both the energy and water sectors;
vii. adopted a Public Sector Re-Invention and Modernization Strategy which will guide
the Government in carrying out a comprehensive reform of the public service; and
viii.completed the design of the Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
and selected the contractor for the installation of the computer software for the
system.
62.   Prior to Board presentation of the Credit, the Government:
i. established a sub-committee of the Cabinet to oversee the public sector management
reform and also selected key professional staff to support the operations of the
Cabinet;
ii. prepared the MTEF Manual to implement the MTEF for three priority sectors in
1999 and for all sectors in subsequent years;
iii. adopted a program for reforming Subvented Agencies which includes a list of
agencies to be closed down, those to operate on a partially commercial basis, and
those to operate on a fully commercial basis, and decided, in its pilot phase to close
at least five agencies, to operate on a partially commercial basis at least seven
agencies, and to operate on a fully commercial basis at least five other agencies;



17
iv. revised the list of state-owned companies to be divested to include economically
significant corporations which will be divested in the next two years, and adopted a
policy whereby all state-companies under the revised list will be divested with the
assistance of private consulting firms or investment banks.
63.   Prior to effectiveness, the Government will:
i. issue the Budget Guidelines for the 1999 budget preparation, which includes
indicative ceilings for all sectors and instructions to prepare the budget on an MTEF
basis.
D.    Direction for Future Adjustment Programs
64.   Cocoa Sector Policies. Marketing of cocoa remains highly restricted in Ghana. The
state-owned Cocoa Marketing Company, a subsidiary of the Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD),
has retained monopoly of cocoa exports and only about 30 percent of domestic marketing is in
private sector hands. In addition, a tax of 28-30 percent is levied on cocoa exports. As part of
on-going efforts to improve the growth prospects of the sector and raise the financial incentives
for farmers, the Government has undertaken to: (i) increase the share of producer prices in the
f.o.b export price from 54 percent currently to 60 percent for the 2000-01 crop season; (ii)
continue the liberalization of the domestic market, including through the partial or full
privatization of the operations of the Produce Buying Company (the domestic arm of
COCOBOD); and (iii) unify the extension services provided by COCOBOD with those of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
65.   With a view to furthering the reform process within the sector, the Governrment has
agreed that COCOBOD, with support of the World Bank, will complete a strategic study on the
future of the industry by the end of 1998. On the basis of this study and taking into account the
experience of other cocoa producing countries, the Government will review its cocoa policy with
respect to, inter alia: (i) the role of the state and the private sector in the development and
management of the cocoa sector; (ii) the share of producer prices in the fob export price; and (iii)
the appropriate level of the export tax. In the meantime, the Government will ensure that returns
to Ghanaian producers will at least match those of other cocoa producer countries, through
reductions in export taxes and marketing margins.
66.   Euergy Sector Policies. The Government is committed to reforming the energy sector
in order to overcome and eventually prevent the recurrence of power shortages across the
country. Following the substantial price adjustment of February 1998, the Government plans to
recommend adjustment of electricity prices by at least a further 35 percent in September this
year, and to continue with subsequent adjustments with the aim of achieving thermal cost
equivalent pricing by the end of 1999. In recognition that further power supply must come from
private operators, the Government will rapidly operationalize the functions of the Energy
Commission created in March 1998 with the mandate to license independent power operators,
and to establish the necessary regulatory framework for power off-take arrangements.
67.    The Government is also pursuing a far reaching reform of state ownership in the sector.
It plans to privatize existing thermal generating capacity this year while leaving all capacity
expansion to the private sector. It plans also to privatize electricity distribution through a



18
number of concessions to assume the responsibilities of the Electricity Company of Ghana.
Finally, with the privatization of the Tema Oil Refinery, the Government will be withdrawing its
control over the retail petroleum sector.
68.    Redefining the Role of the State. The Credit supports a series of actions that in
themselves redefine the role of the state in Ghana: privatization, reform of public agencies, and
the introduction of a self-regulating revenue system. In parallel, many public services are being
decentralized to the District level. The Government is also re-thinking its role more generally as
it seeks to operationalize the targets of its Vision 2020. Some of the main issues it is addressing
in this regard are:
*  the creation of fora for the on-going public sector-private sector-civil society debate and
interaction;
*  the role of the state in promoting industrial development, especially in the form of technical
assistance for the private sector, investment in industrial infrastructure, investor search, and
vocational training;
*  the promotion of the financial sector, especially for the development of medium- and long-
term credit markets, as well as the provision of micro-finance;
* the means to encourage the development of a modern, export-oriented agricultural sector,
exploiting Ghana's underdeveloped potential in such areas as horticulture, coffee and rubber;
and
*  the identification of appropriate institutional mechanisms to channel the provision of poverty
reduction to those not benefiting directly from economic growth.
E.    Poverty Impact
69.    The Credit would contribute to improving the economic prospects of the poor in Ghana
by supporting the Government's efforts to stay the course on economic policy, thus increasing
the prospects for sustainable broad-based economic growth and increased investment in human
resources. Of particular importance to the poor in this Credit will be efforts to focus public
expenditures on the provision of basic social and economic services, such as education, health
and sanitation, and rural infrastructure. The proposed Credit will specifically support the
preparation of the 1999 budget on the basis of the MTEF, including appropriate allocations for
the key sectors of education and health, reflecting the overarching priority of poverty reduction.
The privatization and public sector reform program would indirectly benefit the poor, by moving
the state away from activities that can be better performed by the private sector and thereby
releasing funds for development expenditures and basic services, and improving the environment
for economic growth and hence increasing job opportunities.
70.    Long term efforts to eradicate poverty can only be successful if the Government is able
to increase the investment in Ghana's human resources for all population groups. This is
strengthened by the specific commitments supported under this operation to improve budget
allocations to the social services and to reinforce efficiency in the provision of public services.



19
F.    Link to ithe CAS
71.    The Ghana CAS was discussed by the Executive Directors on September 4, 1997. The
key elements of the strategy, which are aimed at reducing poverty, include: restoring
macroeconomic stability; ensuring a breakthrough in private investment (especially in exports);
promoting broad-based social and rural development; and implementing direct poverty-reduction
measures. A significant part of Bank lending (i.e., ongoing and subsequent adjustment
operations, sector investment credits, and technical assistance), and non-lending services over
the next three years will support the Government's stabilization efforts. The proposed single-
tranche Credit would underpin the existing fiscal reform program and include some of the
remaining PSAC agenda, such as the consolidation of the privatization program as well as
launching broader rationalization of the public sector. The proposed Credit is, therefore, fully
consistent with the CAS and sustained implementation of the reforms it supports.
72.   The CAS sets out clearly the criteria that would need to be met if there were to be a
significant increment in adjustment lending during 1997-99. In particular, the high case for
adjustment lending would depend on substantial progress in: fiscal performance, notably a higher
primary balance; revenue reforms, notably the VAT and the Central Revenue Authority;
liberalization of domestic marketing of cocoa; public service reforms; and regulatory reform for
infrastructure. The present operation goes a long way towards these aims in the areas of fiscal
performance, revenue reforms, and public service reforms, and lays the basis for future reform
programs in the remaining areas. The impact indicators are designed to reflect these same areas.
Thus, this operation is very much in line with the CAS, and, if the program is implemented with
vigor and determination, would lay the basis for consideration for later movement to the high-
case lending scenario.
G.    Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements
73.   Tranche Release. The Credit will be disbursed in one-tranche in an amount equivalent
to US$50 million upon effectiveness. The program was designed to emphasize actions taken
prior to Credit approval to demonstrate, as indicated above, the Government's progress in
turning the fiscal situation around and its commitment to the program.
74.   Procurement and Disbursement Procedures. The Credit will follow the Bank's new
simplified disbursement procedures for structural adjustment operations. Under the revised
procedures, the Credit will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment
program.  Disbursement will not be tied to any specific purchases and no procurement
requirements will be needed. Once the Credit is approved by the Board, the proceeds of the
Credit will be deposited by IDA in an account at Bank of Ghana at the request of the Borrower.
If, after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes as
defined in the Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either: (a) return the amount
to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA. The
administration of this Credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Although an
audit of the deposit account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at
any time.
75.   Implementation of the policy and actions under the program will be monitored by an
Inter-governmental Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance. The Committee will have



20
responsibility for the monitoring and evaluating process under the various components of the
program  with inputs from  participating ministries and agencies.  IDA  will monitor
implementation of the program through regular supervision missions.
76.   Impact Indicators. To monitor the proposed Credit's impact on growth and poverty
reduction, the following indicators will be monitored on an annual basis: (i) domestic primary
surplus as a percentage of GDP; (ii) cocoa exports; (iii) primary school enrollment rate; (iv)
inflation rate; and (v) share of the public sector in the economy.
H.    Program Benefits and Risks
77.   The benefits of the program are substantial and the risks of non-implementation are
manageable.  Successful completion of the program  should enable the Government to
substantially improve fiscal performance to help maintain the stable macroeconomic framework
required to achieve sustained broad-based, private sector-led growth and reductions in poverty.
In particular, the reduction in inflation will have a beneficial impact on the poor.
78.   Benefits. The Government, through the actions outlined above, has signaled strong
commitment and support to make achievement of its economic program more likely, in
particular bringing down inflation and supporting the external position. The Government will
have taken further important fiscal actions. The Bank will be rewarding the culmination of a
difficult phase of the reform program while simultaneously supporting the launching of a second
generation of reforms which include opening-up the energy sector, re-assessing the cocoa sector,
undertaking a comprehensive public sector reform, including that of the civil service, and
consolidating the privatization program efforts.
79.   Risks. Given Ghana's recent up-and-down macroeconomic performance, there is a risk
of macroeconomic slippage for both economic and political reasons. However, the Government
is quite cognizant that the population at large has been hit significantly hard by inflation and
modest per-capita GDP growth. The Government is, thus, politically committed to having in
place the necessary policies that will underpin a process of sustained growth and poverty
reduction. There is also the risk that the ongoing energy crisis could jeopardize macroeconomic
performance by increasing fiscal pressures. In this regard, the Government has initiated steps to
encourage the private sector to rapidly add capacity to the existing power generation. Finally,
there is the possibility of unanticipated external shocks adversely affecting the export price of
gold and cocoa. However, the likelihood of such a risk materializing is minimal under current
world market conditions for these two commodities.
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND
COLLABORATION WITH OTHER DONORS
80.   Bank Group. At March 31, 1998, the Bank had 31 active IDA credits for Ghana,
totaling US$1289.46 million, of which about US$645 million remained undisbursed. IFC's total
investments are comprised of US$29.7 million in loans, US$6.4 million in equity, US$15.2
million in quasi-equity of both loan and equity instruments, and US$18.5 million in
participation. In 1997, MIGA guarantees amounted to US$9.8 million.



21
81.   IMF. Bank staff are working closely with the IMF and other donors in helping Ghana
design and implement its reform program. The Bank and the IMF collaborated with the
Ghanaian authorities on the preparation of the Seventh Policy Framework Paper, which was
approved by the Bank and Fund Boards in March 1998. The Second Year ESAF Arrangement
for Ghana was also approved by the IMF on March 23, 1998. The Government of Ghana plans
to conduct, with the Fund, a midterm review of its program supported by the second annual
arrangement no later than September 30, 1998.
82.   Other Donors. The Bank Group is increasing its collaboration with donor agencies, the
United Nations system, and NGOs benefit from the complementarities in the activities of these
organizations with those of the Bank. The Bank, as Chair of the CG, provides the forum for CG
meetings in Paris every alternate year, and regular consultations among official donors.
Consultations with individual bilateral and multilateral donors take place in the context of
specific projects or programs and also under the Special Program of Assistance for Africa.
During the November 1997 CG, donors endorsed the Government's program to improve
macroeconomic mianagement. In connection with this, some donors have made pledges to co-
finance the proposed Credit, namely, the African Development Bank (AfDB) with US$26
million. The Government has also indicated its intention to request up to US$50 million
equivalent in co-financing from Japan. On project aid, most donors in Ghana support agriculture
and water and sanitation, followed by the social sectors and roads. The recent development of
sector programs in roads, basic education, and health has enhanced donor coordination
considerably. There are active coordination groups chaired by the Government in health,
education, roads, and more recently, agriculture. Following the November 1997 CG, the
Government and the Bank sponsored the creation of the Government/Donor Economic and
Finance Coordinating Group, which is meeting quarterly under the co-chairmanship of the
Minister of Finance and the Bank, to follow-up on the decisions of the CG.
V. RECOMMENDATION
83.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 18,1998



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
GHANA: ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
Matrix of Policy Actions
Macroeconomic Stability
Restore and further      Increase revenue    The domestic primary surplus was    Maintain the domestic primary  Achievement of the
consolidate past reform  effort and contain  increased by 3 percentage points of  balance in surplus, consistent with the main fiscal targets for
achievements on the      expenditures in   GDP in 1997 through expenditure    macroeconomic program.           1998 and agreement on
macroeconomic front.     line with the     restraint.                                                          a program for 1999.
targets agreed                                      Improve revenue performance,
under the ESAF to  The VAT Act has been promulgated  through improved tax administration  Establishment of an
reduce the fiscal    and the rate set at 10 percent.  and strong control of exemptions on  independent revenue
deficit from 8.6                                    import duties.                    authority by mid-1998.
percent of GDP in   The tax identification numbering
1997 to 3.4       system has been established for all  Increase the efficiency and    Introduction of the
percent in 2000.   taxpayers so as to monitor       sustainability of public expenditures  VAT with effect from
compliance by taxpayers with the    through the implementation of a  December 1, 1998.
various taxes as specified in the  Medium Term Expenditure
relevant tax legislation.        Framework (MTEF).



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
Objectives        | Strategies and  |   Actions Already Taken    |   Actions to be Taken                          Triggers for
_______________                Measures        ______________________  _________________                             Further Support
Public Expenditure Management
Improve the efficiency   Focus public         Non-wage expenditures in primary     Budget Guidelines for the        Preparation of the 1999
and effectiveness of     expenditures on the    health care, basic education and rural    preparation of the 1999 budget will budget on the basis of
public expenditures to   provision of basic   infrastructure were raised in real terms   be issued with indicative sectoral  the MTEF, including
reflect the overarching  social and economic   by 288 percent, 103 percent and 266  ceilings and instructions to    appropriate allocations
priority of poverty      services, such as    percent respectively in the 1994-1996    implement the MTEF.          for the key sectors of
reduction.               education, health and  period.                                                             education, health and
sanitation, and rural                                     The MTEF will be implemented    roads.
infrastructure.      A fully independent Road Fund,       in three priority sectors in 1999 and
Improve budgetary    financed from an increase in the    in all sectors in subsequent years.
planning, control and   petroleum tax at a level sufficient to
monitoring systems.   guarantee routine and periodic      BPEMS system will be installed in
maintenance, has been established .  key ministries.
The MTEF has been adopted.
It includes a three-year rolling plan for
allocation of resources. The MTEF will
assist the Government in controlling
expenditures.
The design of the BPEMS has been
completed and a contractor selected for
the installations of the computer
software.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
Public Enterprise Reform
Complete the public      Accelerate the    As of January 1998, 50 state-owned   The Divestiture of State Interests    Adequate progress
enterprise reform program,  divestitutre   companies under the Divestiture      Law will be amended to empower  with the approved
with the objective of    program and move  Implementation Committee (DIC) have   the Minister to issue regulations; to  program, including
moving away from state   with next phase of  been divested. The divestiture of  provide DIC with the authority to   outsourcing of all new
management of those      by targeting      Telecom was completed in 1997.      approve sales and to clarify DIC's  1998 divestitures.
activities that can be better  economically                                    role as the sole reporting agency
performed by the private   significant state-    Cabinet has submitted to Parliament an  for the divestiture transactions.
sector.                  owned enterprises.  amendment to the Statutory
Corporations Act which would allow  Implementation of a public
Increase the      conversion of 24 state-owned        awareness program, including
transparency and    enterprises from statutory to company    dissemination of information on
accountability of   status, for their divestiture.    the outcome of each divestiture.
the divestiture
program.          The list and timetable of state-owned  Completion and publication of the
enterprises to be divested in the next two  impact study.
years has been revised to include
economically significant corporations.    Publication of DIC's audited
accounts annually.
This list will be published in the local
and international press and the web site.
All state-owned companies above will
be divested with the assistance of private
consulting firms or investment banks.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
Qbjeetin0s             Strategies   I    Aitious   ra     T"ken                 Actions to be Taken             Triggers for
:::::    :   and  ::  :                      ::                                    Further Support
::  Measures                                  :          ___
Energy Sector Policies
Assure reliable,          Strengthen the     The Public Utilities Regulatory      The Electricity Company of Ghana  Action to restore
economically efficient, and  legal framework    Commission Act was enacted and the  will be restructured into several    financial viability to
equitable supply of energy   and the         Public Utilities Regulatory Commission,  distribution companies and   the public energy
to meet Ghana's needs.    environment for    responsible for regulating the water and   privatized/let out to concessions.   enterprises, including
private           power sectors, was established.                                       arrears regularization
participation in                                       Incremental capacity will be     and a tariff increase in
the generation and  The Energy Commission Act was      provided by independent power    September 1998.
distribution of   enacted and the Energy Commission,    producers. The national grid will
power.            responsible for implementing strategies   be turned into a separate company
under a restructured energy sector, was   where the private sector will be
established.                         invited to participate.
Energy and water tariffs were increased   The thermal plant of Volta River
by about 90 percent in February 1998.   Authority (VRA) will be
privatized.
Continue to adjust electricity
tariffs with the aim of achieving
thermal cost equivalent by end -
1999.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
National Institutional Renewal Program
Improve efficiency in the    To restructure the   A Public Sector Re-invention and  Re-organization of the functions  Appointment of five
provision of public        public employment  Modernization Strategy has been       and procedures of the Office of the  staff to support the
services and of the        system, increasing   adopted to guide the Government in  President and The Cabinet         Cabinet process.
functioning of central     rewards for        carrying-out reforms in the structure of   Secretariat.
government.                performance,       government, human resources, systems                                    Cabinet approval of
measuring output,   and processes, accountability framework  Rationalization of the functions of   SAs to be targeted in
and rationalizing  and relations with the general public  Central Management Agencies      the pilot phase by the
the regulation of    (and especially the private sector).  (CMAS) as well as of regulations    end of October, 1998.
the public sector.                                       governing these agencies.
The Sub-Committee of Cabinet to
Elimination or     oversee public sector management      Preparation of a fully costed action
restructuring of   reform has been established. Key      program to reform the whole sector
"subvented         professional staff to support the Cabinet  of SAs.
agencies" (SAs).    process have been selected.
A system of performance measurement
has been installed in major ministries.
A program for reforming SAs which
includes a list of SAs to be closed-down,
partially commercialized and fully
commercialized has been adopted.
Under the pilot phase of the program,
the Government will close at least five
agencies, partially commercialize at
least seven, and fully commercialize at
least five.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
Objectives             Strategies   1 Ations Already Taken                        Actions to be Taken              Triggers for
and                                                                                  Further Support
._ _ _ _ _  J  Measures                        :                   :               :
Cocoa Sector Policies
Increase cocoa earnings to   Further reforms to   Share producer price in fob export price  Share of producer price in fob  At least match the
the farmer and to the      liberalize domestic  increased to 54 percent in the 1997/98    export price to increase to 56  Ghanaian farmers'
country.                   and external       crop season from 51 percent the       percent for the 1998/99 crop season  price in case of
markets.           previous season.                      and to at least 60 percent by 2000.   attendant price
increases from other
Domestic market partially liberalized:    Privatization of the Produce  cocoa producer
30 percent of output is being bought by   Buying Company.              countries.
private domestic companies.
Full liberalization of the domestic   Medium and long
market.                          term cocoa strategy to
be completed by end-
Review the medium and long term    December 1998.
strategy for the sector, particularly
the role of the state, downstream
processing, appropriate level of
producer prices, and the policy of
taxation.



ANNEX I1
Page 1 of 8
A cvric qf rep!y the                                              MINISTRY OF FINANCE
ownDer and date of this
eir .,itd I;& quoted.                                                   P. 0. BOX M40
our Re! (. ERSO/98/003                                                      ACCRA
Y,r R4f O .                       REPUBLIC OF CIANA
Te 1. No . .. ._ . . .... .+ .........                                 I  9    9
GRANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
LETTER OF DEVELOPAENT POLICY
INTRODUCTTON
Thc Government of Ghana rcquests the Tnternia.ional Development Association (TT)A) to provide
a credit in Lhe sum of USSSO million in support c^thc current economic refoml proxrarrnie.
The Govcrnmet's z-rrent economlic objective is to secure a smable macroeconomic environment
that supports economic growth led by the privam_ scctor. Acuordingiy, measurcs that will foster a
stable, low-inflation environment in addition lto sucturl rcforms to enhance incentives for
savings, cncourage private investinent aad imu.rove resource allocation are being pursued. In
addition to the on-roing liberalisarion of the tnancial sector mid puisuit of thc divestiture
progra     as well ws relorming the public scvices (including subvented organisati ons), the
Government will embark on furth-er deregulation of tic anergy and cocoa sectors.
These policy mcasurcs are outlined in the Gover-ment's Policy Framework Paper (PIFP) dated
9th March 1998, which was prepared in collabhra-von with the sraff of the World sanl, and the
intcrnational Monetary Funid. A copy of the PF?. incorporated as part of this ltctr, is aLtached
for your information. I would confirm. that the PITP is an aceuralt reflection of Govcrnrment's
cconomic and social policies. This letter presents the policies and prograrnmcs to be supported
lby this credit in morc detail. _
Recent Economic Dcvclopments
According to our recenlt estimatcs, overall growth in real GDP was 5.1 per cent in 1997 wlhich
compares with 5.2 per cert achieved in 1996. Following- the strengthenina of gov Mrnmn t
fiscal operations and a tightening. of monetary policy, inflation dcclined fromi 32.7 per cent in
December 1996 to 20.8 per cent in December 1997 (point-to-point). The annual average rate
of inflation siimilarly fell from 46.6 per cenL to 27.9 per c:llt over thc samiie period.
The Government embarked on significant tightening of fiscal operations whichl resulted in an
increasc in domestic pTimary surplus from 0.3 per cent of GT)P in 1996 to 3.3 per cent in
1 997. In addition the Bank of Ghana strenr.h.cncd its control of domiestic liquidity by
redefining the targeed monerary aggregate to includc foreign currency deposits. Mhe Bank
also irnposed a uniform reservc requirement of 9 per cent on all deposits (includinlg forcign
currcncy deposiLs).



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
2
The ovcrall Balance of Paymuent registered a surplus or $24.9 million in,1997 as against a
deficit of $ 13.0 million in 1996. At thc endi of 1 997. the stock of Ghana's public external debt
amounted LtO USS5.9 billion. Thc extemnal debt service ratio as a pcruentage of exporLs of
goods and non-factor scr-ices rose from 27.4 pc: cent in 1996 to 32.9 per cent in 1997.
Outlook; for 1998
l hc ovcrall fiscal delicit (on cash basis) is projeactd to decline from 9.3 per cent ill 1 997 to
the equivalent of 6.6 per zent of GDP. The implicit incrcasc in Lhe domestic primary surpiLis
to 4 per ccn, of GDP is expected to contribuL- Lo a substantial Lowering of domcstic bourowing
and zssist in rCducing in,t_rest rates.
Total domcstic rcvenue (txcluding divcstiture receipcs) is projccted tl) increase by nearly 32
per cent. *rotal cxpend;i, re is projected to exceed the 1 997 provisional ocurtur of ,3.848.3
billion by 27.4 pcr ccn:. In financing the ovcrall deficit, about 45 per cent of the nceded
reso-urce is expected to be securcd from external sources, mainly in the form ofproject loans.
The nct external resou7:C f.nalncing is expected to rise by 0458 billion whilc donmestic
financin- of tlie budeCt ., projected at ¢552 billion.
In 1998. monetary policy will conTinue io aim  at achieving price sLability. a linc with the
tarcstcd inflation and rewi GDI' -rowvh raies. monetary -roRth, has been projectcd not ta
excecd i8 per cent. To  nh31ancc its opCnS marktr operaTions, thc Bank of G;hana will promote
the introduction of repur;.hase agrccmnenLs (REPOs) in the country.
Thc tmLernal reserves lv.i,d up -which will provide an adequate cushion agzainst shorn-term
external shocks will be .he external sector focs for 1 998. An overall balar.ce or paymilents
surplus of USS40 millio.. Ior the year 1998 is Cxpected. De iciLs on currcnt accounL will I e
tirrunced by an expected u:plus in the capiLal accounr.
National Economic Forum and Othlr Consultative Fora
As a result of positive developments and thc maturalion of our democratic process, e:fforts
were initcnsified in the: .-3a of consensus building. especially with respect to =anagcmenL <)f`
the economy.
In an attcmpt to achieve broad consensus on some of th1 difficult economic choices facing the
counLty. since 1996 Coc-mnnrcnt has organised a number of workshops involving labour,
cmployers, academia, politicians and researclcrs. Most importantly. a two-day National
Economic FoTmuni waLs       in September 1 997 oln thc thenie "Achieving a National
Consetsus on Policv uleasures for A cceicrated £Economic Growtl wit/i in the Framewnrk- of
Glhana Jision 2020.' ConsensLLs w;ls reached on a number of issucs. including fiscal and
mnacrocconlomic  stabilit., reinLroduction  of' the  Value  Added  lfax, improvemCenu  in
agriculrural production. r-nanufacturing, as well as measures aimed at poverty reduction.
0overnaient is conrtnittcd to iznplementing tl-e _;nsensus reached at thiese fora in the light of
a changing economic cinoirnnient.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 8
;
The Value Added 'ax (VAT)
rhe Value Added rax Act was enactcd in Fcbruai-y 1998, in preparation ror its reintroduction
by Decemnber 1 9'98. CaLbinet proposed a rate of 15 peer ccnt but Parliamcnt approved a rate of
10 per cenit.
An Oversighlt Comn-ittec comprising all stake-holdcrs, and a sub-commnittee on publicity,
respcctively chlared with ensuring the simooth implenieitiLation of lhe tax and undertakc an
elffecrivc public educaLiom on tlhe tax tXroLLghout the counitry ror at Icast six months prior LO itS
inplementation. havc been put in place.-
VAT will become operational late Lhis year and is expected to increasc tax revenue by about 2
percenT ol GD1' by the year 2000.  7ne imnplementation of thC VAT is expectcd Lo be
flacillrated by thc inLroduction of a unique-Ta,;payer Tdentificallot Number (T'IN) system to be
adoptcd by all rcvnuc ag,encies. The TIN tySL Cm is being implcmented.
Crcation of a Central Revenue Authiority
In keeping with the cnhanacement ot revenue managament, a Central Revcnue Authority
(CTRA) is being established to co-ordinatc and oversee the policies, programimes and
operatiojis ol' the rcvcnue agencies of the gcvernncxa; i.e. Tnteinal Revenuc Service (IRS),
Customs- Fxcise and Preveltive Services (CFPS) cLnd the Value AddeCd Tax (VAT)
Secrctariat. It is expected that the CRA will lead to cficiency gains in tax administration
throuah the exc2hantre of infonmation on Laxnayers between the revenuc agencies. improve
performance monitoring. and rationalisation oi incentive schemcs.
Terms of Rcference calling for a consultrig firm  io l1e1p set uP thC CRA  inCluide the
iatroductioii of legislation to legitlinisc its eStablishment and operationis; developing an
effcctive or saniSatiOn;1 structure: streamlining and co-orditiatina the :activities of' thc rCvenue
aacncies; rescarching. analysing and formula-IUrntax/rcvenue policY; as well as undertakling
tax audits and investigntions.
A firm  h3s bccn appointed and has started work. It is expectcd thLt th e Central Revenuc
Autiloriry will be fully set up by JunO 1 99R. with rhe fIlUI comP1ment of its .tafLaad log'SLics.
Taxpayer Identification N umbcring- (TIN) System
Tlic numbering systcm to g,eaerate and issue .!cese numbers to all eligible taxpayers has also
be-en (ested- To cnhiarnce the TIN sysiem's security lteatures, it is plained that a TTN Card,
containing bio-daLa anLi figerprints. will bc issued 3nd the reveniue aaencies will use bar code
readers to access alid vcrify information oLn individuals. Re-arding corpor.ate eatities. coded
magnetic strips on the 'IIN Corporate Ccrtificates will also containi all of the vital informationi
needed by agencies to help thcm assess and coilect =aX revcnuLe from thesc companies. 'The TN
Centrc commenced issuing the numbers in Apri I 1 998.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
4
Customs Rcforms
A scrics of custom reforms have been unaddr:aken, These are tlhe introduc:lon of selective
examinXationi of all cairgo; harmonisation  nr.d raLionalisation of customs Zriffs aimed at
incrcasing the effccrive duty ratc: and a substantial cut of ta. and cus.oms exemptions.
Measurcs have also been takcn to elimninatc a_use oF duty-frce imiports under on-going pubLic
and donior funded projccts, and personnel :n-rana-cmcnt has becn improved and regular
rotationi of afficers institutionalised.
EXIPENDITURE
?Mledium Termn Expenditure FrarneworkTMT TEF)
The C,overlimcni lhas adopted the MTEF wic'. will enltail a mediumii term (three year) rolliz
plan lor allocation of resources and will er.abl_ goveurment pLan fir suceqssf'ufl cxecuLion- of
pro"ralncs.
Thrc budct Quidelines will be issucd in mid-June 1998 bascd on the MTEF 3pproach and will
be uscd for preparation of the M1TEF lor I 999-2001. The Budget guidelimcs. which will
include indicaTive ceilings and the MTEF rniual will be issued to all scc:c:s to eguide tie
1999 budget prepsratioa. By Scptember/Oc70ber. 1998 a MTF, budget fOr 1999-2001 is
expected to he presented to Cabinct for consideration bcfore submissioll To parliament.
Activity costing, will he prepared for tlucC prioCiLy sectors (Hlealtti. Education, and lRoads and
Transport).
ulud-eting and Public Expenditure Management Svstem (BPEIMS)
WiLth thc complciion of the design of the OFJEMS, a tender was floated at1 evaluaLion of
responses liave bccn carried out to select a ve-dor for the supply of application and systems
softwa-rc. Following the negotiation and awarc of the contract by May 1998. it is xlpected
thatL tlhe installation. testing and cu.s;tomisatio!. of the software would be carricd out by late
July I 998. I lardware procurement woull Ldlen c=nacncc almosL immediatelyv and deliviry
would he expected biy July 1999 at which Li;:7  thc application o thlle svs.:m in thic pilot
minisiries would begin.
Cash Mvlanagecinnt
I raininag of kcv officials of gover.ment in C;ish .Managcmcnt haN been unrdrtal-en with the
help of TI4F staff. Governmcnt has set in motio:n plans to fiily dcvclop a hanbc:o;k or manual
as a Lrainiing, tool to be used to guide agerncies in preparing their Cash Flow Statemelits. rhis
n'aini11g would tOIce place in Aprii/May 1998 and the agcncies' cash Flow Si--ements would
ht: prepared by May and used to dctcrmine Puoiie Sector Borrowing Rcquire.;.nnS (PS BR) as
well ;s guide budgctary rclcases to Ministries) DeparLments and Agrencics (MDA.S).
Wa-e Reforms
Governnment established a Cenutalised Maiiagecritn, Board known as the PLublic Sector 1L.Ccoies
Managemenl Board in April 199R. The Board will landle all public sector salares includinig the
co-ordiniation of all waAc negotiations on behalf cf Gfovernment as employer, conisistent with thc
MTrI [.



ANNEX 1[
Page 5 of 8
PUBLIC SECT'OR MlANAGEMENT REFORMS
Tbc National lnstitutinnal Rcnewal Prnra2mme (NiTRP)
Tlhe National Institutionial Rez.ewal Pro-arnsn-e (NIRP) initiativc launched ins Decemnber 1994.
has CLimlinaLed in Lhe developm1eCt oI a strareCv dowel. uent called '-I'ublic SecLor Re-invention
andi Modcrnisarion .' Lrategy for GCla' (1US1-aMC)S). ThL' strate-y. approved by Cahinet in
Dzeccmbcr 1997. recomilmends five brroad  najor translormaLion areas of thc Public Sector,
nIaICly: LranSinrmaLion  o. iLs structur=  human  resources: systems and  proe sses;
accoLLnLability iT11ewo1rk; anc relaTions witll -tc  cncral public especially, tlie private sector.
'IThese translormations will be impleniente iur thrce phases. The first phase will involve Lhc
dcvcloprmcnt and imllementaLioll oF ca mzanagemcnt frarncwork. The second phasc wiII
enforce the acCountability frarnework. The third phase will deveoop ihe prollessional capacities
o F Lhos,; retnainin- in Ll. poublic scrvicc.
CabineL has also approved priorities for NIR?'s work programm  ftor the 1998-')9) period.
Thsec include: (i) support ?o Lhe Cabinet process; (ii) REform  of Ccntral Mana-ement
Acnclciis; and (iii) Rcibrn of Subvenied A-encies.
The reform of the Cabrinet support system  crnphasiscs a review oir current procedures, the
strengthening of analysis and preparation  of policy options for Cabinet and iTs sub-
commiLtt'es. A Pwolicy Managoneent Grotup (?MG) is being cstabiished in the Offkce of the
Prcsidcnt to be responsible ,o: elilcienL manaizment of the tlow of Cabinct business and
analysis of policy OptiOnIs aLld cIloieOs matc"ed aqainst. realisLic resource uvailabilitv. Five
professionial staff will bc appointcd to supporr L-he Cabiuet process bv mid-199R. In addition. a
sub-corrmilttee of Cahiinet will 'oe created to oversee public scctor managnement refonT- by the
saunc datc. TIhc diralt tcrms of rciLronco ol the s-_b-coll1miaee hals beeln prepaxet and SLlbmitted
to. the olic_ of the Vi;e-Presijdnt.
The reformi  of thc Central Management Aac-ics airns at imDovin  Lthe regulatory
environment of the Public Service. This is to bc donc by mapping tfunctional responsibilities.
reali-nin- the roles anid functions of cacii rc_ latory agancy, and introducing new instiEUtionial
and manageement cpa'cipies. An imiiporranit aspect of the rcgulatory refomI is the effective
linlawt hutwecn dcvelipment planning, polic: process, resource allocation. incomes policy
and rcdcploymrntl;LsaliVnr.
A  ph3sed programjnc for refonmning subven:cd agencies has been prepaned aid recintly
approved by Cabiner. Thlis includes the list of agencies to be closed down. pa±tially
cummercialised, and i lui) cornmLrcialisod. r.. pilot pha.s, lo be COmpleted by und--1999,
will includc the closurc of at least livc a_-acics. targeting thosc with lar,cst busLgetary
savint.s: thc parrial commcrcialisation of at Icast sovcn a-cncics (through at Icast 30 per cent
reductior- in subventioa); and the tLll comnlerm;alisation of five agncies. Cabinet decision on
the .nencies to be included in the pilot phase will he taken by October 199R. The legal
frameWork and procedures for closing down c: conrncreialising the sc1c=te8 a-cncics crcaTed
by staLuIcs will bc enacred by end of October; VAg.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
6
Civil Sicrvice Performance Improvement Programme (CSPIP)
As part of the on-roing efforts to improve thc per1ormancc of the Civil Service. Chief
directors hiavc signd perforinance agreemenls. Thcsc agreements will serve as a critical linik
in the appraisal system  operatiin- in the Civil Service. An ovaluarion panel has been
constituted to r%:vi-w Lthe performancc oft the Chief Dirctlors on a rfgLdar basis. IThe
-overnment plans to extend the l,erformance agreernent to all Heads of Dcpartmetnts and
DireCtors.
PRIVAT'E SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
The Govenuncn:, r:co-nises tlhe private sector as the engine of growth and is committed K
impenmentinti variouis struLctural relornms to promnotc the sector. Some of the measures include
the broadening of Jialoguc beLween the public anid privaLe sector, as well as foir-ign
investmenit proniotions. Sig,nificatir progress has also been madce in acceleratian the divestiture
programme and reloirml of the rcU[latory framework. 'I*lic (jovcrnmneit is also dcsirous lo
promote private secitr paiticipatioii in the provision, of basic infrastructure, spccifically
electrical power, roiadLs and uriban water supply. This is expectd to commence aftcr the
appropriate legislative and regulatory farnowork- has been establishicd.
Divestiturc Progr2mme
Govcrnment has made substantial progzress in its divestiture programmc. To date, majority
owecrship in over 200 staLte-owned entcrprises has been divested to both local and fnrci-n
investors. An impaci assessment of the pro_ramme will be undeitakcn. Independent
consultants havc bcen sclected and will start work soon. Whetn completed, the report will he
discussed with all stakuholders with a view to improving on the e.I;tiency of the programme.
The C,overnmenlt has already launchcd a public informiatioii awnpaign of iLs divestiture
prograrnme. A major fleaLure of this campaign  4[l be the dissecaination pf iiformaLion on
each divestiturc. including the numiiber of biddrs,. the selected bidder and the aLnOLtnl of Lhe
transaction.
The existing legal framework for divesLiture is to be revisccl to improve the effectiveness of
the DivesLiLtIre implemlentation Commiitee (DJC). Thus, the Divcstiturc oi Slate Interests l..aw
will be supplemenited by regulations %which will serve to) clarify thc provisions of' the
legislalion and to provide the detailed statutory basis LLpon whiich the policies and activities
are to he carried ouL hy DIC. The re-ulationis wtoul :d articulate lhe C;overnment's policics and,
in particular. spell out the methiodology to be applied by DIC in relation lo issues such as
valuation of assets. Lreatment of liabilities, pricing. the bid proccss. form  of accounLs.
advertisin-. distribution of proceedLs of sale, redundancy issues anid relationships with tthe
managemelnt of state-owned cmncrpriscs and stalT.  The regtulations would also servc to
regulate rihe outsourcing prograimtmc asld to lcaitimisc the forms and procedures contained in
the DIC Plrocedures Manual. Since the law will be amended to enmpowcr the Minister Lo issue
regulations, the GTovernment also inLends to amend the law to provide DIC with the autholity
to approvo sales, anid to clarily D(Cs role as the sole reporting acncy for divestiture
transactions. Thc Artoracy-Gcneral will be instruCtcd by Cabinet t) dralL Lhe appropriate
anmendments to the legislarion.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
7
The tovernment has. il May 1998. revised iLs diveSLiLure list to includc economically
si-1nificant statc owned corporations as  arat ol their preparation for privalisationi and/or
privaLC sccLor parLicipation. These include  lihe 'I'ema Oil Comiipany. Gihana Water and
Seweraze. Ghana Porcs and HTarbour, Ghana Airvays. Glana Oil Comupaay, Llectricity
Comnpany ul 'Ghana. (Giiania Railways Comroration and thc rcmaining state-owned  3anlks. The
i;SL, which ircludcs a provisional Limetabe 1for the divestiture o(f the corporati1ns, will be
published in thc local *Iind intemaLional prcss. and thc woebsite.
COCOA SE:C'TOR REFORMNIS
The Goverr.=cn is continuin;, with -Lirthcr cocoa sector reforrms, with liberalisation or the
internal markc.t and re-istration of additional coinpaai.es. GiovernnmenL has alsc) ernharked
upon u progan=c to privatise Lhe ProdJuc Buyin- Conipanly it) enabie it operaLL  fulliy as a
private company wiLhout deepending on Cocobod for support. The policy to incrcase tie
farmcrs' pric- will continue on an .iual basis and tlhe policy of reaching not lcss Than 60%
of F013 share by Lhe year 2000 is onl tr-ack.
The (Tovernnncat will conitinue to observe Ihc Cffect of full libcralisation 9F Cocoa by oither
prodlucing countries and is committed to loarnig from these experiences tu enable it matlc tip
our farmers' prices in c;Lse of any attendant price increases From  other cocoa producer
cou1Lries. This would bc achieved through lowering the cxpolt tax. We 1elieve lilat on all
occasions the inLcrcst of the farmer shozuld be paramount with a concurrent incrcasu in
earnin=s for thc counTry as a whole.
The Government reco-gniscs the iiced to rcvicw tlhe medium and lone term strategy  bcir the
Cocoa sector. particularly the role or the Sute. lhe downi strcaim  processes, and the
appropriate Icvel of p1ro1iUcer pricos aniid the po(ilicy ofl Laxation. III thlis the GovernmenL will
endertakc a study to he completed by The end oF the year.
ENERGY SEC}TOR POLICY
lfhe Government of Ghana views t:he developmciA--of the energy .ector ta be -of lon- term
strategic importancc for the success of the Accelerated GrowLh Strategy cnvisionicd under Vision
2020. The prinaary policv objectivcs arc to: (i) assure reliable, cconomically efficient and
equitable supply ot energy  to  mect the c;uuntry's growing niecds for socio-economiic
developpmcnt: (ii) serve as a basis for creatina attractive markctable asscts inito which Glhanalian
institutional invcstors. Lnd sources of overseas Chanaian capitaL, and foreign private
direct investments canl participate: and (iii) duveiop an cfficient Ilix of' ccAmcrcially viable
public and private secLor energy utilities.
Specifically. privarc sector participatioa is being encoura>,d in the area ot spply and
distribuLion of clectriciLy, anld supply. transporting and distribution of natural gas. Ihe Flectricily
Company of Glhna will bc restructured into sccval distribuLion companies and privatiscd. ln the
arca of power producrion, incremental capacity will be provided by indepcndcnt power
producers. The existing Volta River Authority tcernial power piaint will also he privatised. 'lUe
national grid will be turnlcd into a separate company in which the private sector will be inivited to
participate.



ANNEX 1I
Page 8 of 8
T'wo laws have been enacted by the GovrnrmenL Lo help create a new rotgulatomy framework [or
thc =ncray scctor to acclcratc the aLtraction o1' udditional and diversified sources of finanacing
for thie development of energy iifrastricturc. Thre two kcgisLtLions are Lhe Plublic Utilities
Regulatory Cominiissioin (PURC) Act (Act 5D3S of 1997) and the Energy Commissiun Act (AcL
541 of 1998).
Both the PURC and chc Energy Commission will take Up Lhe regulatory ftictioiui and
npicmnenr S=ratc,gicS undcr a rcstrucrurecd _ncrgy sector in order Lo crcatc a conducive
enLvironmCnt to attract privatc capital. protnotc comnpetition and enhance elliciency aS well as
iacet newv challenges ed';isaged iunder ti-Vision 2020. 'The PURC is alrcady in placz aund hus
-iven approval to elecLricity and waitcr rates or 1998.
Cnnclusinn
The  reform  measures described  above are  lully  consistent wiLh  Lhe Crovenn-trent's
cornmitment to develcop a dynamic alnd efflIienL public secLwr to support a susLainahle privaLe
sector-led economic development. I therfcorc hope that IDA will approvc lhe requested crUdiL
amount to sLupport this programme.
aimate Peprah
6  linister of Finanuce
Mr .Jean-Louis Sarbib
Vice-President
Afric2 Region
World Blank
Washington D.C.
U. S. A.



ANNEX III
Pa!e 1 of 2
Ghana at a glance
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharn      Low-
Ghana      Africa  Income      Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        17.5       600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 USS)                               360       490      Si)0                 Life expectancy
GNP 1998 (billions USS)                                6.3       294    1.601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                         2.7        2.7      1.7      GNP           /A
Labor force (%)                                        2.7        2.6      1.7      prp
per~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
Most recent estimate tlatest year avaitable since 1989)                            capita                              enroll
Poverty: headcount index (% ofpopulation)               31
Urban population (% of total population)                36        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        59        52       63
InfTant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               73        92       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               --        .
Access to safe water (% otpopulabon)                    56        47        53
Iiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                       40        43       34           -     Ghana
Gross prmary enmllment (% ofschool-age population)      76        72       105                Low-income group
Male                                                  83        78      112
Female                                                70        65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     19#5       1996     1996 
EconorrIc rdstlo
GDP (billions US$)                            2.8      4.5        6.2      6.3
Gross domestic investmenttGDP                12.7      9.6       18.6     18.7
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            19.4      9.7       25.6     27.2              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   13.7      5.7        9.9      8.3
Gross national savings/GDP                   13.8      4.5       12.1     10.4
Current account balance/GDP                   0.6     -5.8       -6.5     -8.3
Interest payments/GDP                         0.7      1.7        2.1      2.3     Savings1                           Invest
Total debt/GDP                               25.6     50.1       92.2     96.8
Total debt service/exports                    6.4     23.7       36.4     27.1
Present value of debtVGOP                      ..       ..       68.7     67.0
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        .      276.0    246.0                  Indebtedness
197454i6  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                -Ghana
GOP                                 40.4      4.7      4.5        5.2      5.7         _        Low-income grup
GNP per capita                      -2.9      1.6      1.8        2.4      2.8
Exports of goods and services       4.9       9.0      3.4       19.8      6.1
STRUCTURE of the EC:ONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                  47.7     44.9       45.0     44.4     0o -
Industry                                     21.0     16.7       16.8     18.6      20
Manufacturing                              13.9      11.5       9.6      9.4            o
Services                                     31.3     38.4       38.2     38.9    -20 T         91           9i   95   95
.40 -
Private consumption                          73.3     84.9       77.4     79.4
General govemment consumption                13.0      9.4       12.7     12.3                   GDI   -GOP
Imports of goods and services                18.4     13.6       34.2     37.6
197645  1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and imports 4%)
Agriculture                                   1.1      2.2        4.2      4.0      20.-
Industry                                     -7.0      5.1        3.3      4.2
Manufacturing                              -7.7      3.2        1.8      3.0      10_ 
Services                                      0.8      7.0        5.0      6.3
Private consumption                          .0.6      4.1        4.2      5.0             91   92   93           95 96
General government consumption                5.0      8.1       -6.0      2.1     -°- -
Gross domestic investment                    -8.3      6.2       23.1      0.9            -     Expons  -I--lmpons
Imports of goods and services                -9.6      7.7        1.2     12.1
Gross national product                       -0.5      4.7        4.5      5.1
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                        Inflaton(%)
(% change)                                                                             so -
Consumer prices                                29.8      10.3       59.5     45.6
Implicht GDP deflator                          29.5      20.6       43.4      33.1     20
Government t7nance°
Gov( mment Of GDP)                                                                             91    92    93    94    95   96
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                   .      11.3       21.4      19.2            -GDP2de. -O-CPI
Current budget balance                            .       0.1        4.2       1.3
Overall surplus/defic                             ..    -4.1        -6.7    -10.4
TRADE
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                         Expot and import levels (mlI. USS)
Total exports (fob)                              ..      633       1,431    1.571
Cocoa                                           ,,      412        390      552       2,500-
Timber                                           ,,      28        191       147      2,00e-
Manufactures                                    ..       ..         ..         .      1.500 -
Total imports (cit)                                       729      1,841    2,119      °.1 _.
Food                                            ..       40         56       64-
Fuel and energy                                         199        197      267        Soo -
Capital goods                                   ..      187        398      490         0
90  9i  92  93  94  95 96
Export price index (1987=100)                    ..       92         91        85
Import price index (1987=100)                    ..      105         124      125             -Exports   aiImports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        ..        88         74       68
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                         Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   891      672       1,582     1,728
Imports of goods and services                   882      857       2,117    2,388           90   91   92   93   94   95 -i
Resource balance                                  9      -185      -535      -661       2                   9
Net income                                      -36      -111       -130     -141       -s                             _
Net current transfers                            45       33        263       276        -
Current account balance,                                                              .15 -
before official capital transfers              18      -263       -402      -525     -12 -
Financing items (net)                           -20       148       686       513     -1_
Changes in net reserves                           3       116      -284        13      .16 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)             147      552        710       606
Conversion rate (locaMLtS$)                     1.9      76.2    1,199.8   1,637.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            721     2,257      5,703    6,141
IBRO                                           40      118         59        44
IDA                                            44      259       2,375    2,530                    G   A
640 44
Total debt service                               57       159        567      476
IBRD                                            5       18         21        13             F
IDA                                             0        3         25        28            t      1
1171                 '2530
Composition of net resource flows
Officiai grants                                 8       75        260       206                         , \ 
Official creditors                             13       93        171       358
Pnvate creditors                              -17       35        149      -171                   E
Foreign direct investment                      71        6         35        20                 1078 0      C
Portfolio equrty                                0        0         72       100                      169   509
World Bank program
Commitments                                    89      191        305       272       A-IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  10       70        242       244       B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                            2        10         23       20       C -IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                       8       60        219       224
Interest payments                               3        11         23       21
Net transfers                                   5       49         196      203
Development Economics



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate                Projected
Indicator             1992   1993   1994    1995       1996     1997    1998    1999    2000
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product              100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                        44.8   44.1   44.8    45.0      44.4      47.4    46.6    45.7    44.8
Industry                           17.4   17.1   17.0    16.8       16.6     16.6    16.6    16.6    16.7
Services                           37.8   38.7   38.2    38.2      38.9      36.0    36.8    37.7    38.5
Total Consumption                    98.7  102.2   95.0    90.1      91.7      92.7    91.4    90.1    87.6
Grossdomesticfixed                   12.8   14.8   16.9    18.6      18.7      16.0    17.9    18.1    19.5
investment
Government investfent              10.3   11.7   14.0    14.7       14.7     12.3    11.7    11.8    10.8
Private investment                 2.5    3.1    2.9       3.9      4.0      3.7      6.2     6.3      8.7
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)a                      17.2   21.3   26.7    25.6      27.2     24.8    26.4    28.1    28.9
Imports (GNFS)                      28.8   38.4   38.6    34.2       37.6     33.5    35.7    36.3    36.0
Gross domestic savings               1.3   -2.2    5.0       9.9      8.3      7.3     8.6      9.9     12.4
Gross national savingsb              3.6    0.4    8.1    12.1       10.4      9.6    10.6    11.5    14.1
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product              6414   5662   5175    6183       6344     6753    6940    7392    7880
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per           430    400    360      350      360       370     380     390      400
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1984
prices)
Gross domestic product at          3.9%   5.0%    3.8%    4.5%     5.2%      3.0%    5.6%    5.8%    5.8%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income              3.3%   3.8%    5.2%    5.1%     3.6%      3.9%    5.9%    6.2%    6.1%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1984 prices)
Gross domestic product at          1.0%   2.1%    1.1%    1.8%     2.5%      0.4%    2.9%    3.1%    3.1%
market prices
Total consumption                  4.4%   2.5%   -0.6%    0.0%     1.9%    -0.4%    2.0%    2.9%      1.9%
Private consumption                1.6%   -1.3%   0.5%    1.5%     2.3%      1.9%    2.0%    3.0%    1.8%
(continued)



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate                Projected
Indicator             1992   1993   1994    1995       1996     1997    1998    1999    2000
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports(GNFS)a                     1105   1208   1384    1582       1728     1676    1830    2075    2276
Merchandise FOB                   986   1064   1236    1431       1571     1511    1658    1895    2086
Imports (GNFS)a                    1845   2173   2000    2117      2388      2265    2476    2680    2838
Merchandise FOB                  1457   1728   1579    1686       1933     1809    1984    2166    2304
Resource balance                   -740   -964   -616    -535       -661     -589    -646    -605    -562
Net current transfers               255    261    271      263       276      296     311      314     318
Current account balance            -376   -559   -255    -142       -320     -220    -291    -287    -295
(after offi cial capital grants)
Net private foreign direct          22      25      30      35       20       36       65      137     202
investment
Long-term loans(net)                387    371    295      171      358       274     251      117     132
Official                           383    481    385      268       419      350     325      192     198
Private                             3    -110    -90      -98       -61      -76     -74      -75     -66
Other capital (net, including      -157   205      94      220      -71       -65      14      58       80
errors and omissions)
Change in reserves'                 124    -41    -164    -284       13       -25     -39      -25    -119
,Uemorandum items
Resource balance (% of              -11.5  -17.0  -11.9   -8.7    -10.4    -8.7    -9.3    -8.2    -7.1
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
1984 prices, annual %)
Merchandise exports                 2.1    16.8    0.6     3.8      20.6     -4.7     8.1      8.4     6.1
(FOB)
Merchandise imports                 7.2   17.6   -8.4      1.8      13.3     -2.2    12.1    8.0       4.8
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)d
Currentrevenues                     11.9   15.7   19.7    21.4      19.2      17.6    18.3    18.7    18.8
Current expenditures                14.3   18.9   18.8    17.1      17.9      16.5    15.9    13.7    13.5
(continued)



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate                 Projected
Indiczator             1992   1993   1994    1995       1996     1997    1998    1999    2000
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-  -2.4   -3.2    0.9  4.2    1.3      1.1      2.5     5.1      5.4
Domestic Primary balance (- = deficit)  -4.9   -3.4    0.8  1.6       0.3      3.3      3.8     3.8      3.9
Capital expenditure                 10.3   11.7   14.0    14.7       14.7      12.3    11.7    11.8    10.8
Foreign financing                    6.8   11.0    8.5      8.3       7.0      5.7      5.5     4.2      3.5
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market           18.5   18.0   19.5    17.9       17.2      18.7    17.0    16.5    16.4
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                    50.3   27.4   53.0    40.8       39.7      40.8    18.0    12.0    11.0
Price indices( 1984 = 100)
Merchandise export price             82     76      87       97       89       89       91      96       99
index
Merchandise import price            115    116    116       122       123      117      115     116      118
index
Merchandise terms of trade           71     65      75       80       72       77       79      83       85
index
Real exchange rate                  339    403    493       405      370       350     380      390     400
(LCU/ US $)-
Real interest rates (%)             16.7   7.3    3.0    -25.8       12.4      ..       ..
Consumer price index                10.1   25.0   24.9    59.5       45.6     27.9    15.5      8.0     5.3
(annual % growth rate)
GDP deflator                        11.2   24.9   29.8    43.4       33.1     29.6    20.6    9.1       6.1
(annual % growth rate)
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
c. Includes use of IMIF resources.
d. Central government only
e. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in LCU/US$ denotes depreciation.



ANNEX V
GHANA: EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES, 1992-2000
Actual                    Estimat       Projections
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
FINANCING NEEDS
A. Current Account Deficit                                 592    815    456    402    525    435    505    484    424
B. Official MLT Amortization                               120    263    187    330    203    258    328    374    368
C. IMF Repurchases                                          64     68      83      108    125    166    139       75      38
D. Arrears                                                  0       0       0      35     100      0       0       0      0
Da. Other Liabilities                                       0       0       0      0      -100     0       0       0      0
E. Reserve Requirements                                   -187    51       84     187    -98    -140       12     94      81
TOTAL                                                   588    1197    810    1062    755    719    984    1028    911
FINANCING SOURCES
A. Grants (Gross)                                          216    256    201    260    206    216    215    198    129
B. Long-term borrowing (Concessional)                      351    509    369    397    386    367    493    415    430
IDA                                                 170    205    178    242    244    237    280    299    250
Non-IDA                                              180    304    192    155    142    130    213    117    180
Multi-tateral                                      65      104     58     39      43      39      64      35      54
Bi-lateral                                         115    199    134    116       99      91      149     82     126
C. International Monetary Fund                              0      66       0      43      40      0      III     37      0
D. Direct Foreign Investment.Portfolio invt & Divestiture   22     125    233    107    120        82     145    217    282
DFI                                                  22      25     30   - 35       20      36      65     137    202
Divestiture receipts                                 0      100    203      72      100     46      80     80      80
E. Medium term ( Non-Concessional)                         155    124    113    104    175    165         86      76      70
F. Other Capital inflows (net)/ 1                          -156    117    -106    152    -171   -111    -66    -22        0
Short term capital                                  -119    154    -22       3      -149    -82      0      -38     0
Suppliers' credit                                    -16    -19    -28      153    -50    -27    -66        16      0
Errors & omissions                                   -22    -30    -60       -7      28     -2       0      0       0
TOTAL                                                   588    1197    810    1062    755    719    984    920    911
,FINANCING GAP                                              0       0       0       0      0       0       0      108      0



ANNEX VI
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ghana                                                                      Page 1 of 4
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                   and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b
Project ID      Credit      Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj              Imp Pro
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 84
Active Loans
GH-PE-901      IDA 20390    1989  REP OF GHANA                        WATER SECTOR REHAB             0.00      25.00             0.00           5.21       3.08        0.00       U             S
GH-PE-910      IDA 21570    1990  REPUBLIC OF GHANA                   URBAN II(SEC CITIES)           0.00      70.00             0.00          12.67       6.45        0.00       S             S
GH-PE-925      IDA 21090    1990  GOVERNMENT                          VRA/SIXTH POWER                0.00      20.00             0.00          14.69      13.81       0.00        U             U
GH-PE-928      IDA 22470    1991  GOVT OF GHANA                       AGRIC RESEARCH                 0.00      22.00             0.00           6.78       6.07        3.17       S             S
GH-PE-940      IDA 22240    1991  GOVERNMENT                          ECON MGT SUPPORT               0.00      15.00             0.00             .66        .35       0.00       S             S
GH-PE-918      IDA 21800    1991  GOVT OF GHANA                       AGRIC DIVERS (TREE C           0.00      16.50             0.00           9.35       8.06       4.56        S             S
GH-PE-931      IDA 23460    1992  GOVERNMENT                          AGRIC EXTENSION                0.00      30.40             0.00           9.96       9.65       8.40        S             S
GH-PE-934      IDA 23190    1992  GOVERNMENT                          FEEDER ROADS                   0.00      55.00             0.00           5.54       2.67        0.00       S             S
GH-PE-964      IDA 25080    1993  GOVT OF GHANA                       PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVEL           0.00      65.10             0.00          15.79      13.84       0.00        S             S
GH-PE-956      IDA 24980    1993  GOVERNMENT                          URBAN TRANSPORT                0.00      76.20             0.00          35.17      32.11       0.00        S             U
GH-PE-953      IDA 24670    1993  GOVT OF GHANA                       NAT'L ELECTRIFICATIO           0.00      80.00             0.00          23.24      18.37        0.00       U             S
GH-PE-930      IDA 24410    1993  GOVERNMENT                          LIVESTOCK                      0.00      22.45             0.00           3.89       4.25        1.45       S             S
GH-PE-933      IDA 24280    1993    GOVERNMENT                        TERTIARY EDUCATION             0.00      45.00             0.00           1.47         .22       0.00       U             S
GH-PE-942      IDA 24260    1993  GOVERNMENT OF GHANA                 ENVIRONMENT                    0.00      18.10             0.00           3.88      -1.52        0.00       S             S
GH-PE-924      IDA 26040    1994  GOVERNMENT OF GHANA                 COMMUNITY WATER & SA           0.00      21.96             0.00          12.29       6.44        0.00       S             S
GH-PE-936      IDA 25680    1994  GOVERNMENT                          LOCAL GOVT DEV.                0.00      38.50             0.00          22.50       6.71        0.00       S             S
GH-PE-961      IDA 25550    1994  TBD                                 AGRIC SECTOR INVEST            0.00      21.50             0.00          11.38       3.33         .91       U             S
GH-PE-966      IDA 27430    1995  GOVERNMENT                          MINING SEC.DEV & ENV           0.00       12.30            0.00           8.95       4.52        0.00       S             S
GH-PE-962      IDA 27130    1995  REP OF GHANA                        FISHERIES                      0.00        9.00            0.00           6.26       2.50        0.00       S             S
GH-PE-948      IDA 26950    1995  GOVERNMENT                          EDUC/VOC.TRNG                  0.00        9.60             0.00          6.54        3.24       0.00       S              U
GH-PE-926      IDA 26820    1995  GOVT OF GHANA                       THERMAL (P-VII)                0.00     175.60              0.00         89.52      49.68        0.00       U              U
GH-PE-960      IDA 26650    1995  GOVT OF GHANA                       PRIV SECTOR DEV                0.00       13.00             0.00         10.43        6.47       0.00       U              U
GH-PE-975      IDA 28850    1996  GOVERNMENT                          BASIC EDUCATION                0.00      50.00              0.00         44.66        9.11       0.00       S              S
GH-PE-42516   IDA 28770    1996                                       PUBLIC ENTERPRISE/PR           0.00      26.45              0.00         22.39        1.57       0.00       S              S
GH-PE-957      IDA 28580    1996  GOVERNMENT                          HWY SECT INV.PROG              0.00     100.00              0.00         81.83        6.36       0.00       S              S
GH-PE-973      IDA 28360    1996  MINISTRY OF FINANCE                 URBAN ENV.SANITATION           0.00       71.00             0.00         59.57      13.51        0.00       S              S
GH-PE-943      IDA 27920    1996  GOVT OF GHANA                       NON-BANK FIN INS AST           0.00      23.90              0.00         20.30        6.62       0.00       S             S
GH-PE-45588   IDA 29250    1997  GOVERNMENT                           PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP            0.00       20.90             0.00         17.25        6.51       0.00       S             S
GH-PE-41150   IDA N0200   1997  GOV'T OF GHANA                        VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTU           0.00       30.00             0.00         26.15       -1.46       0.00       S             S
GH-PE-949      IDA 29940    1998  GOVERNMENT                          HEALTH SCTR SUPPORT            0.00       35.00             0.00         33.82        0.00       0.00
GH-PE-967      IDA 27183    1998  GOVERNMENT                          PRIV.SCTR ADJ                  0.00        2.40             0.00          2.29      17.51       -2.65       S              S
Total                                                                                                0.00   1,221.86              0.00        624.43    260.03        15.84
Active Loans                                  Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   574.01            2,325.15             2,899.16
of which has been repaid:                    0.00               223.32              223.32
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                1,229.18             2,033.77             3,262.95
Amount sold                                         0.00                  .38                  .38
of which repaid                :                 0.00                  .38                 .38
Total Undisbursed                 :               624.43                50.56              674.99
(iciierated by the Operations Iniormation System (OIS)



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
a. lintended disbursements to date sinus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (IIS   highly Satisfactory. S = satisfactory, U
unsatisfactory, IIU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operationis Inloririation System (OIS)



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
Ghana
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1988/89/91/93          Bogosu                   7.06    1.26    5.81    14.65    7.06    1.26    5.81   14.65
1989/91/93             Cont Acceptances         0.00     .88    0.00    0.00    0.00       .88    0.00    0.00
1989/92                Wahome Steel             .87      .44    0.00    0.00      .87      .44    0.00    0.00
1990                   AEF Alugan                .13    0.00    0.00    0.00      .13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/96             GAGL                     5.34    3.00    7.97    1.85    5.34    2.55    7.97    1.85
1991                   AEF Appiah Menka         .63    0.00    0.00    0.00       .63    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                   AEF Packrite             .15    0.00    0.00    0.00       .15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                   GHANAL                   0.00     .44    0.00    0.00    0.00       .44    0.00    0.00
1991/92                Hotel Inv. Ghana         2.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                   AEF BMK                   .92    0.00    0.00    0.00      .92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                   AEF CFL                  .30    0.00    0.00    0.00       .30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                   AEF Polytex              .08    0.00    0.00    0.00       .08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93                Ghana Leasing            2.73     .75    0.00    0.00    2.73      .75    0.00    0.00
1993                   AEF Afariwaa              .22    0.00    0.00    0.00      .22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                   AEF GHUMCO               .23    0.00    0.00    0.00       .23    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96                ECOBANK                  5.00    0.00    0.00    2.00      .90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                   AEF Palm Royale          1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                   AEF Shangri-la           .24    0.00    0.00    0.00       .24    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                   GHACEM                   1.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                   AEF Dupaul Wood          .69    0.00    0.00    0.00       .69    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   AEF Pako Bay              .20     .05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   AEF Tacks Farms           .37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   AEF PTS                  0.00    0.00     .31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   AEF NCS                  0.00    0.00     .67    0.00    0.00    0.00       .67    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    29.57    6.82   14.76   18.50   24.90    6.32   14.45   16.50
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995                   AEF GHANA PACK            .36    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   AEF PLANTATION            .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   AEF RAFI                  .30    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00



ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
Ghana - IBRDIIDA Lending Program
Past                Current               Planned a
Category                                           1995       1996        1997        1998        1999        2000        2001
Commitments (US$m)                                294.5       276.2        54.4       132.4      220.0        190.0      202.0
Sector (%) b
Agriculture                                        4.8         0.0       55.1        11.3         0.0        21.1         0.0
Education                                         0.0        18.1         0.0         0.0        13.6        39.5         0.0
Electric Power & Energy                          59.6          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Finance                                           0.0          8.7       38.4        22.7         0.0         0.0         0.0
Mining                                            4.2         0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Multisector                                      23.8          1.7        6.4        39.6        54.5         0.0        37.1
Population, Health, & Nutrition                   0.0         0.0          0.0       26.4         0.0         0.0         0.0
Public Sector management                          4.4         9.6          0.0        0.0         2.3         0.0        13.4
Social Protection, etc.                           3.3          0.0         0.0        0.0         2.3         0.0         0.0
Transportation                                    0.0        36.2          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        24.8
Urban Development                                 0.0        25.7         0.0         0.0        27.3         0.0        24.8
Water Supply & Sanitation                         0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0        39.5         0.0
TOTAL                                             100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
Lending instrument (%)
Adjustment loans c                               25.5          1.7        6.4          1.8       54.5          0.0       37.1
Specific investment loans and others             74.5        98.3        93.6        98.2        45.5       100.0        62.9
TOTAL                                             100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
Disbursements (US$m)
Adjustment loans                                 25.0        65.6        46.4         3.0          0.0        0.0         0.0
Specific investment loans and others            143.8       195.3       227.8       138.1         0.0         0.0         0.0
Repayments (US$m)                                  20.9        22.6        22.1        14.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Interest (US$m)                                    21.9        22.6        21.9        16.5         0.0         0.0         0.0
Ranges that reflect the base-case (i.e., most likely) Scenario, for IDA countres, planned commitments are not presented by FY but as
a three-year-total range; the figures are shown in brackets. A footnote indicates if the pattem of IDA lending has unusual characterstics
(e.g., a high degree of frontloading, backloading, or lumpiness). For blend countries, planned IBRD and IDA commitments are presented
for each year as a combined total.
bFor future lending, rounded to the nearest 0 or 5%. To convey the thrust of the country strategy more clearly, staff may aggregate sectors.
CStructural adjustment loans, sector adjustment loans, and debt service reduction loans.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on Apnl 15, 1995.



ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1. Time Taken to Prepare the Credit      3 Months
2. Initial Discussions with IDA          December 1997
3. Appraisal Mission Departure           April 14,1998
4. Date of Negotiations                  April 29, 1998
5. Board Presentation                    June 18, 1998
6. Planned Date of Effectiveness         July 31, 1998
7. Expected Project Completion           December 31, 1998



ANNEX VIII
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
IMPACT INDICATORS                            1996               2001
Domestic Primary Surplus (% of GDP)           0.3                3.9
Cocoa Exports ('000 metric tons)             320                420
Primary School Enrollment Rate                76                 80
Inflation Rate                               45.6                5.3
Share of the Public Sector in the Economy    25.2               19.7
(as a % of GDP)
Source: Government of Ghana and Bank staff estimates.



International Bank for Reconstruction and Developnient
ANNEX IX
a                                    FOR OFFICIAI USE ONLY
SecM98-180
FROM:       The Secretary                                         March 12, 1998
,GHANA: Policy Framework Paper for 1998-2000
1.    Attached iis a Policy Framework Paper for Ghana. It was prepared by the
Government of Ghana with the joint assistance of the staffs of the IMF and the Bank. It
outlines the Government's objectives for the medium term and reflects the understandings
reached among the Govemrnment, the IMF, and the Bank on the framework for an
adjustment program. A Policy Matrix summarizing these understandings and a
macroeconomic indicators table prepared by Bank and Fund staff are attached to the
paper.
2.    The paper also indicates the estimated external financing requirement for 1998 to
2000. A part of this requirement is expected to be met by future IDA lending. The
volume and timing of such lending, both project- and adjustment-related, will be
determined according to the Bank's normal procedures.
3.    This being the seventh Policy Framework Paper for Ghana, the report is being
distributed to the Executive Directors for information.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Altemates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC, and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC, and MIGA
1Questions on this document may be referred to Mr. Asad Alam at Ext. 87380.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the|
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without'
World Bank authorization.



GHANA
Policy Framework Paper, 1998-2000
Prepared by the Ghanaian authorities in collaboration
with the staffs of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund
March 9, 1998
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    This document, prepared by the Government of Ghana in collaboration with the staffs
of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, is the policy framework paper (PFP)
for the period 1998-2000. It sets forth the socioeconomic strategy of the Ghanaian authorities
in the context ol the second and third years of the present Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) arrangement that was approved in 1995. This arrangement was designed, in
part, to address the strong inflationary pressures that had resulted from the lapse in fiscal
discipline in 1992 and had failed to abate under the policies pursued in subsequent years. The
government is committed to establishing a sound and stable economic environment that will
sustain strong economic growth and a broad-based improvement in living standards.
II. EcoNoMIc BACKGROUND
2.    Ghana launched an economic recovery program (ERP) in 1983 aimed at reversing a
protracted period of serious economic decline characterized by lax financial management,
inflation rates well over 100 percent, and extensive government involvement in the economy.
The ERP, which adopted a market-oriented approach, made considerable progress in reducing
macroeconomic imbalances and liberalizing the external sector. Inflation was lowered from
142 percent in 1983 to 10 percent by the end of 1991. The highly distorted exchange and
trade system was liberalized. The balance of payments registered sizable overall surpluses
throughout the period. Real GDP growth averaged about 5 percent a year, resulting in
appreciable increases in real per capita incomes. However, inflation remained high and
variable, discouraging private sector saving and investment, and constraining the pace of
economic activity. Private investment and economic growth were also hampered by the slow
implementation of critical structural reforns in the financial, parastatal, and agricultural



-2-
sectors. Export growth, particularly in nontraditional sectors, was disappointing and Ghana
continued to depend on external assistance. At the recent rate and pattern of economic
growth, it would take the average poor in Ghana 30 years to cross the poverty line.
3.    In 1992, fiscal imbalances re-emerged as a consequence of large wage awards in the
public sector. Repeated delays in passing through imported oil costs to retail petroleum prices
gave rise to revenue losses. As a result, the domestic primary balance shifted from a surplus of
1.9 percent of GDP in 1991 to a deficit of 4.9 percent in 1992, the money supply grew
considerably, and inflationary pressures resurfaced. Ghana's problems since 1992 are rooted in
recurrent lapses in financial discipline.
4.    In 1993-94, the authorities made some progress in reducing fiscal and external
imbalances. The domestic primary balance shifted to a surplus of 0.8 percent of GDP in 1994,
bolstered by increased revenue from taxes on cocoa exports. However, import duties were not
imposed as planned on a range of zero-rated or exempted goods, while overruns occurred in
wages and domestic interest payments. The government's external position was supported by
large privatization proceeds, mostly from the sale of the Ashanti Goldfields Company.
5.   In 1995, policy implementation under the first annual ESAF arrangement was uneven.
The budget outturn for 1995 was weaker than programmed, with the domestic primary
balance about 1.5 percentage points of GDP short of the program target, primarily because of
overspending in the capital budget, particularly on roads. This overspending was accompanied
by arrears to contractors, reflecting a continued weakness in expenditure monitoring and
control. Reserve money was well above target, even though central bank credit to the Ghana
National Petroleum Corporation (GNPC) was cut off. The 12-month rate of inflation started
to decline in the second half of 1995, but remained high at 71 percent at the end of the year.
On the positive side, the divestiture program remained on track and GDP grew by 4.5 percent.
External reserves exceeded the program target, largely due to higher exports associated with a
bumper cocoa crop.
6.    Large fiscal slippages emerged during the second half of 1996. Most indicative
quantitative benchmarks and several structural benchmarks were missed. The budget showed
a deficit for the year of 10.4 percent of GDP, about 6 percentage points of GDP higher than
the prograAm target The dom!estic prnma-iy surplus was only 0.3 percent of GDP compared to
a target of 4 percent, primarily owing to selr.ous lapses in expenditure discipline which resulted
in unbudgeted spending of about 3 percent of GDP. Domestic financing of the budget rose to
5.1 percent of GDP, which increased domestic interest costs and kept interest rates high. On
the structural side, the automatic pricing mechanism for petroleum products, which had only
been introduced in June as a critical step in liberalizing the petroleum market, was suspended
when its implementation became difficult in the face of rising international oil prices.
7.   In 1997, the government launched a fiscal adjustment plan motivated by the need to
restore budgetary discipline, generate the domestic primary surplus needed to reduce public
borrowing, and lower inflation and interest rates. The plan succeeded in reducing the overall



budget deficit on a commitment basis from 10.4 percent of GDP in 1996 to 8.6 percent in
1997, and the domestic primary balance improved from 0.3 percent of GDP in 1996 to
3.3 percent in 1997. Total expenditure declined in relation to GDP by 5.4 percentage points,
largely in capital outlays where overruns had been concentrated in 1996. Tax revenue fell from
16.5 percent of GI)P in 1996 to 14.9 percent in 1997, owing mainly to smaller collections of
petroleum taxes and cocoa duties as a result of a decrease in export volume. The government
has launched an effort (described below) to enhance the efficiency and buoyancy of the tax
system by shifting its structure toward the taxation of consumption, which is expected to yield
results in 1998.
8.    After adjusting for the shortfall in required reserves, reserve money grew by
37.4 percent compared to 44.3 percent in 1996. Owing mainly to the recovery in domestic
foodstuff production and slowdown in aggregate demand, inflation fell from 33 percent at the
end of 1996 to 21 percent at the end of 1997.
III. MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVES, STRATEGIES, AND POLICIES
9.    The government's overall strategy is to inspire the confidence of investors and the
public in liberal, market-oriented policies and further structural reforms aimed at securing a
stable macroeconomic environment and increasing private investment, thereby creating jobs,
increasing incomes, and reducing poverty. The program is designed to achieve by 2000 a
reduction in inflation to low levels, an improvement in the balance of payments to raise
reserves to at least 3 months of imports, and an increase in GDP growth to 5.8 percent, or at
least 2.5 percent on a per capita basis. This will require an increase in gross fixed capital
formation from 16.5 percent of GDP in 1997 to 19.2 percent in 2000, with the private portion
more than doubling. Investment recovery will be supported by a projected increase in national
saving of over 3 percentage points of GDP between 1997 and 2000. The emphasis on financial
and structural policies to mobilize domestic savings reflects modest prospects for donor
support in the medium term. Prudent wage policies and further liberalization of the trade
regime will enhance Ghana's international competitiveness and attract foreign investment.
Critical to achieving these objectives are financial policies and structural reforms aimed at
reducing inflation to single-digit levels as well as the government's involvement in economic
activities that can be better handled by the private sector.
A. Financial Policies
Macroeconomic framework
10.   The government recognizes that higher rates of economic growth can be achieved in
the medium term by restoring financial discipline and bringing inflation under control quickly.
To this end, the domestic primary surplus will be increased and monetary policies will be
tightended. This will help lower interest rates, reducing domestic interest payments, increasing
public savings, and reducing crowding out.



-4 -
Fiscal policy
11.   The government's strategy is to generate the savings needed to achieve significant
primary surpluses, which, in turn, support external current account objectives. The overall
budget deficit on a commnitment basis is projected to decline from its estimated level of
8.6 percent of GDP in 1997 to less than 4 percent in 2000. The macroeconomic framework
targets the domestic primary balance to improve to 4 percent of GDP in 2000. The
improvement in the primary balance will be supported by tax and expenditure reforms.
12.   Tax revenues are projected to increase by at least 1.3 percentage points of GDP from
1997 to 2000. A substantial part of this increase comes from greater reliance on taxation of
consumption, mainly through the implementation of the VAT. The VAT was passed into law
on February 17, 1998, but with a standard rate of 10 percent rather than 15 percent as
proposed by the government. In response to the implied revenue loss, the government,
reflecting its commitment to fiscal discipline, intends to implement compensatory revenue
measures.
13.   Tax collection in general will be improved through reform of the tax administration.
Specifically, the adoption of a single, unique taxpayer identification number in conjunction
with the implementation of the VAT, along with improvements in collection procedures, audit
practices, and the organization of the tax administration, are expected to enhance taxpayer
compliance. In addition, ad valorem excise duties will be applied to petroleum products so
that changes in the international oil price and the exchange rate will be automatically passed
through to retail prices. Measures will be taken to improve incentives for private savings and
investment through adjustment of income tax brackets for inflation and harmonization of the
withholding tax on dividends and interest.
14.   In 1998, measures will be taken to improve the import tax structure, which include
continuing the cutback in exemptions initiated in 1997, shifting a significant number of zero-
rated items to a positive duty rate, and requiring parliamentary approval to grant customs
exemptions.' The reduction in zero-rating made it necessary to introduce a new tariff rate of
5 percent, in addition to the existing rates of 10 percent and 25 percent. Although this
contributes to reducing tariff rate dispersion, reduction of the top rate will be considered in
the medium-term to further reduce dispersion. In addition to these measures, revenue
collection in 1998 will benefit from the full-year effect of measures taken in 1997, in particular
the extension of the services tax and the cutback in tax and customs exemptions. As a result,
the effective import duty rate is expected to rise to 8.6 percent in 1998 from 8 percent in
1997, which will contribute to a projected increase in international trade tax revenue of
0.8 percentage point of GDP from 1997 to 2000. Taxation of cocoa exports is expected to be
'In 1995, zero-rated and exempted items comprised about 60 percent of total imports.
Exemptions to attract foreign investment, especially in the mining sector and in the context of
regional integration, contribute the bulk.



-5-
reduced in conjunction with the gradual increase in the share of the international price
received by farmers.
15.   The program seeks to improve the quality and sectoral allocation of public spending,
as well as strengthening budget management. To this end, the government will implement a
three-year rolling Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), the formulation of which
was financed by the U.K. Department for International Development with technical assistance
from the World Bank, as the appropriate mechanism for rationalizing both recurrent and
capital expenditures over the medium term. The MTEF will incorporate the government's
public investment program and will concentrate on completing ongoing projects and
undertaking new projects with rates of return in excess of 15 percent, maximizing the
leveraging of donor funds, and ensuring that recurrent costs can be met within the budget.
Priority sectors for investment are infrastructure, health, and education.
16.   To meet the program's overall budgetary targets, total expenditure will be lowered by
about 3.4 percent of GDP from 1997 to 2000. This decline will result mainly from a
significant fall in domestic interest payments as the result of lower borrowing requirements
and interest rates, and a projected decline in foreign-financed projects in 1999 and beyond.
Domestic capital expenditures are projected to rebound in 1998 and 1999 from low levels in
1997.
17.   Although the domestic primary surplus will improve to 3.3 percent of GDP in 1997,
the government's domestic borrowing was 5.2 percent of GDP owing to large external
amortization payments that exceeded program loans and high real treasury bill rates. In 1998,
the domestic primary surplus is projected to improve further to nearly 4 percent of GDP,
which, along with an expected decline in external amortization payments, is expected to result
in a reduction in domestic financing.
Monetary policy
18.   The main objective of monetary policy is to consolidate and extend the progress made
thus far in reducing inflation. In 1997, monetary policy continued to be dominated by the
government's large financing requirements, with broad money increasing by an estimated
41 percent. In 1998, reflecting the projected lower domestic financing needs of the
government, broad money is expected to grow by 18 percent and by 11-12 percent thereafter.
Thus, the average inflation rate is expected to decline from 28 percent in 1997 to 16 and
8 percent in 1998 and 1999, respectively.
19.   The Bank of Ghana (BOG) applied a uniform reserve requirement of 8 percent to all
deposits (cedi and foreign currency deposits) as of March 27, 1997. This action has resulted in
uniform treatment of foreign currency and cedi deposits, and effectively has tightened overall
reserve requirements. Reserve money growth is projected to decline to 17 percent in 1998.



-6-
20.   In early 1996, the BOG discontinued its practice of issuing treasury bills in retail
auctions and, in 1997, discontinued its practice of tap sales for small investors. Government
paper is instead being issued in wholesale auctions and the BOG is developing a network of
primary dealers. After sufficient preparation, namely the introduction of a centralized book
entry system in 1998, the BOG wili implement its liquidity operations mainly through short-
term repurchase agreements with these dealers. This will not only improve the effectiveness of
the BOG's operations, but also stabilize the auctions of government paper.
21.   The soundness of the banking system was adversely affected in late 1996 and early
1997 by the emergence of bad debts linked to a case of check fraud of a magnitude in the
range of 0.6-1.0 percent of GDP. Although the largest bank in Ghana, the Ghana Commercial
Bank (GCB), had sufficient provisions in its balance sheet to withstand the losses from these
bad debts, the two small banks affected by this case are to be absorbed by sound financial
institutions. The BOG took measures to help recover some of the bad debts and to safeguard
the soundness of the banking system by significantly strengthening its banking supervision
department. As a result, a budgetary burden is not expected to arise.
External sector policy
22.   Ghana's external situation is projected to remain vulnerable owing to relatively small
cocoa crops, depressed gold prices, and reduced grants from bilateral donors. In 1997, tight
financial policies have stemmed a further deterioration in the external accounts. The current
account deficit including official transfers is targeted to improve gradually to about
4.5 percent of GDP over the next three years. Gross international reserves declined to the
equivalent of about 2 months of imports at the end of 1997, but are targeted to improve
steadily to more comfortable levels through 2000. Adherence to the program's fiscal and
monetary targets should permit the exchange rate to stabilize at a level that will help preserve
Ghana's external competitiveness.
23.   Ghana maintains some capital account restrictions. In general, all outgoing capital
movements need approval from the BOG, loans and overdraft facilities to resident companies
controlled by nonresidents require approval of the BOG, and regulations stipulate that private
sector and commercial bank borrowing abroad should be approved by the BOG. Capital
account liberalization in the medium termn requires consideration of the strength and capacity
of the commercial banking system to handle additional inflows of foreign exchange, the
BOG's ability to monitor and supervise the open positions of the commercial banks, and the
strength of the balance of payments position.
24.   Ghana's debt burden increased in 1996 by almost US$150 million due to noncon-
cessional borrowing, resulting in a deterioration of debt indicators. Ghana's external debt
service is projected to rise further, as a result of recent nonconcessional borrowing and the
need to settle deferred payments to Paris Club creditors. Nevertheless, provided that no public
or publicly guaranteed external borrowing is undertaken on nonconcessional terms, even in
the short term, and strictly adhering to tight financial policies, Ghana's debt service is



-7-
projected to decline from 27 percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1996 to
25 percent by the year 2000 without rescheduling. Further, the net present value of debt
relative to exports, which stood at 250 percent at the end of 1996, is projected to fall
throughout this period. Thus, Ghana's external debt burden is sustainable and its debt capacity
can withstand modest external shocks.
25.   External financing requirements over the 1998-99 period would total about
US$1.6 billion. Concessional assistance pledged by donors at the Consultative Group meeting
in November 1997 together with World Bank disbursements are expected to cover Ghana's
financing requirements in 1998-99.
B. Structural and Sectoral Policies
26.   The central focus of the structural and sectoral policies-as articulated in the
Government's document "Ghana: Vision 2020"-is to reduce poverty through an acceleration
of economic growth, investment in human resources, and the implementation of direct poverty
alleviation measures. The government's long-term vision of accelerated growth is predicated
on a breakthrough in private investment. But private investment and sustainable growth will
require improvements in complementary government operations-in particular, better delivery
of public services. While these will provide the overall environment for growth and poverty
reduction, specific sectoral and structural policies for promoting private sector activity,
improving agriculture and the environment, strengthening infrastructure, and developing
human resources will be necessary to promote higher private investment and more rapid
growth and poverty reduction.
Promoting the private sector
27.   The government has continued implementing significant structural reforms to promote
the private sector. The dialogue between the public and private has been broadened, and
foreign investment promotions launched. In addition, the government has made progress in
reforming the regulatory framework, accelerating the divestiture program, and liberalizing the
financial sector and petroleum sector.
28.   Regulatory Framework. Significant legislation to provide the framework for private
sector participation in the economy was enacted: a very liberal Investment Act (with
automatic approval of investments) was approved in 1994; the "Free Zone"Act (to attract
direct foreign investment into sites with good infrastructure) was passed in 1995; the
Statutory Corporations Act (to provide for the conversion of public corporations into
companies in preparation for privatization) was passed in 1995; and the National
Communications Act (permitting liberal entry of the private sector into the
telecommunications sector) was approved in 1996. These legislative developments contribute
to a clearer definition and enforcement of property rights, and deterrence of abuse of
authority, providing a more transparent structure for contract enforcement. The government
will continue to enlarge the scope for private sector activity by laying down the regulatory



-8 -
framework for private participation particularly in other infrastructure sectors, such as power
generation and distribution, rails, ports, and large urban water supply systems.
29.   Accelerated Divestiture. An acceleration and expansion of the divestiture program
lies at the core of the government's efforts to establish a climate conducive to private
investment. During 1993-97, the government divested a total of 48 state-owned enterprises
from a pre-determined divestiture list of 110. Of the large and strategic enterprises, the
government divested 30 percent of its shares in Ghana Telecom in late 1996. During 1998,
the government will offer for sale at least another 20 of the remaining small and medium-sized
enterprises from the list and will have completed privatization for at least two of the following
large and strategic enterprises: the State Insurance Corporation, the State Housing
Corporation, and Mim Timber.
30.   Financial Liberalization. The government has also sought enhanced competition in
commercial banking through a program of divestiture of publicly-owned commercial
banks-the Social Security Bank (SSB) and the Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB).2 Majority
share holdings in SSB passed into private hands in 1996 with foreign strategic investors
obtaining management control. Forty-two percent of the shares of GCB were divested
through a public offering in 1996 and negotiations with a strategic investor were conducted in
1997. Negotiations could not be concluded due to complications arising from Bank of
England regulations governing the sale of the London branch of GCB. Financial sector
reforrns will continue in 1998 with the divestiture of the National Investment Bank, the State
Insurance Corporation, and the Reinsurance Corporation. Overall banking supervision will be
strengthened throughout the medium-term in order to safeguard the soundness of the banking
system.
31.   Petroleum Deregulation. In response to problems in the petroleum sector, the
government initiated a program of deregulation. Under this program, the government
removed in mid-1996 GNPC's monopoly over the importation of crude oil and adopted a
system of open bidding for oil procurement contracts. A formula was adopted to allow retail
prices to fully and automatically reflect international price and exchange rate changes but was
not applied consistently in 1996 due to sensitivity over the impact of petroleum price increases
and the risk of reopening wage negotiations.
32.   The authorities have renewed their commitment to continued deregulation of the
sector and the following measures are planned. First, the government reinstated a system of
automatic price adjustment for petroleum products in early 1997. The formula includes an ad
valorem tax component and applies import parity pricing, and will result in the decontrol of
2This is part of the second phase of financial sector reforms: under the first phase, completed
in 1990, most of the nonperforming assets of commercial banks were taken over by the
Government. Since then, the Bank of Ghana has enforced strict prudential regulations which
significantly improved the soundness of the financial sector.



-9-
ex-depot petroleum prices subject to safety and competition standards. Second, GNPC
operations will be restructured in order to confine the company to hydrocarbon and energy-
related activities. GNPC assets unrelated to its primary functions will be liquidated and
corresponding outstanding debts repaid. A timetable for the repayment of GNPC debt to the
Bank of Ghana has been agreed upon and the debt will be fully repaid by April 1998. Third,
during 1998, the Tema Oil Refinery's (TOR) and the Ghana Oil Company will be offered for
sale. The operations of TOR will be fully exposed to competition after 1998, which wull
complete the liberalization of the import of petroleum products.
Rationalizing government cperations
33.   The government plans to adopt measures to introduce public service reforms, improve
public expenditure management, and implement revenue reforms.
34.   Public Service Reforms. Reforming the public service to achieve greater efficiency
and a sustainable wage bill is essential for fiscal stability, higher private investment, and
efficient delivery of social services. This reform has been on the government's agenda under
the National Institutional Reform Program (NIRP) since 1994 and a participatory process of
self-appraisals and beneficiary assessments has fostered a national debate and discussion of the
issues, but a program of reform measures is yet to be formulated. Without formulation and
implementation of such a program, cycles of real wage erosion and real wage catch-up are
likely to continue, thereby making it difficult for the service to recruit and retain skilled staff.
35.   In recognition of this problem, the government announced in the Budget of 1998 plans
to rationalize the regulatory regime for subvented agencies and specific measures to
rationalize the size and structure of the public service. These include measures to reorganize
the functions of the civil service and subvented organizations, reduce staffing levels,
rationalize hiring practices, and raise relative pay in favor of managerial staff.
36.   Public expenditure management. The government has also initiated steps to
improve the management of public expenditures under its Public Financial Management
Reform Program (PUFMARP) which was launched in July 1995 and is being supported by the
World Bank, the IMF, and donors. Critical elements of the program are the introduction of a
medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) as the basis for annual budgeting and a new
computer-based budget and public expenditure management system (BPEMS). The BPEMS
will revamp government accounting through the adoption of a unified chart of accounts, the
reinforcement of commitment accounting, improvements in the recording of payments, and
reconciliation on a regular basis of the cash position of the budget with bank statements. The
MTEF will be launched in 1998. The design of BPEMS has been completed and the
invitations to tender for the software have been sent out. Phased implementation will begin in
1998 with the start of software customization, testing, and the training of staff as part of the
transition plan to the new system. The new BPEMS is expected to be fully operational for the
budget cycle for calendar year 2000.



-10-
37.   Tax administration. In additional to the implementation of VAT, the government
will strengthen and modernize tax administration as part of its revenue reform program.
Currently, coordination among the revenue agencies is difficult as the Intemal Revenue
Service (IRS), and the Customs, Excise and Preventive Services (CEPS) function as separate
subvented agencies with their own Board of Directors, and report directly to the Minister of
Finance. In addition, a National Revenue Secretariat (NRS) exists in the Ministry of Finance
with responsibility for revenue coordination and policy making. The government intends to
establish a central revenue authority by June 1998 to provide for improved coordination
among the various tax agencies. The central revenue authority will have a strong head office
with responsibility for the administration of the taxpayer identification number system,
monitoring the collection and audit activities of the revenue agencies, developing effective
cooperation among the agencies, designing and implementing uniform personnel policies, and
implementing an effective internal audit system. The introduction of a unique and uniform
taxpayer identification number system from 1998 will be an effective tool for improved
taxpayer compliance and inter-agency coordination.
Improving agriculture and the environment
38.   Ghana's program of accelerated growth depends critically on faster agricultural
growth, especially in agricultural exports. Over the past decade, agricultural output has risen
by an average of only 2 percent a year. A new agriculture growth strategy has been
developed which places particular emphasis on rural infrastructure (especially safe water,
village and feeder roads, post-harvest facilities, and electricity), improving access to
technology for sustainable natural resource management, enhancing human resources and
institutional capacity, providing food security, and jump-starting private investment in
agricultural exports.
39.   Cocoa Liberalization. There remains an important structural constraint on
agriculture: high taxation of cocoa production and state control over cocoa marketing. Cocoa
farmers obtained during the 1996-97 crop season about 52 percent of the world price of
cocoa, with 29 percent going to the government as tax revenues and the remaining 14 percent
being absorbed by the Cocoa Board. For the 1997/98 crop season, the government increased
the farmers' share to 54 percent of the f.o.b. price. Cocoa export is the sole monopoly of the
Cocoa Marketing Cormpany (the external arm of Cocoa Board). Domestic purchases of cocoa
also used to be a state monopoly before 1993 when private participation in the internal
market was permitted. After four years of domestic liberalization, about 30 percent of total
crop is now procured by the private sector.
40.    The original program called for the removal of Cocoa Board's monopoly over crop
exports. However, a 1996 independent study by UK-based LMC Intemational, which was
commissioned by the governrnent and financed under a World Bank credit, recommended the
continuation of the state monopoly of cocoa exports. This recommendation is based on the



perception that removal of the export monopoly carries risks for quality control, reliability of
deliveries, forward sales, and the predictability of export proceeds and taxes. The government
will nevertheless reassess options for eliminating the Cocoa Board's export monopoly once
the privatization of domestic marketing is completed.
41.   However, through further rationalization of the operations of the Cocoa Board and the
reduction in export taxation, the farmers' share in the f.o.b. price of cocoa will be raised to
60 percent for the 2000-01 crop season. Over this period, the Cocoa Board's share of the
f£o.b. price will be reduced by at least one-half of the increase in the share of the farmers. The
operational savings will come primarily through efficiency gains from the privatization of the
Produce Buying Company (the domestic arm of the Cocoa Board).
42.   Environmental Management. Ghana was among the first countries in Africa to draw
up a comprehensive National Environmental Action Plan. The Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) was formed to monitor developments and policies, including those governing
wildlife, forest areas, and mining activities. However, the agency is under-funded and needs to
be strengthened to become more effective in a number of areas, such as enforcement of
environmental laws, monitoring and analysis, and waste management activities. Two critical
areas for environmental action are land degradation and water resource management.
43.   In recognition of the deteriorating quality of water, the government passed in 1996 a
Water Resources Act which has set up the institutional and regulatory framework for water
management. A Water Resource Management Study is currently underway with donor
support which will lead to recommendations for an integrated program of water management
including further capacity building measures especially at the local level. Deforestation rates
have fallen in the 1990s relative to the 1980s and the government is committed to conserving
and sustaining its forest'resources through an extensive system of protected areas and a newly
developed National Forest Protection Strategy. The private sector will be increasingly
required to bear the cost of the forest depletion through an increase in stumpage fees.
Extension services are also being strengthened to implement soil fertility programs.
Strengthening infrastructure
44.   The government's strategy in infrastructure is to co-opt private participation in the
expansion and maintenance of the nation's infrastructure in most sub-sectors. This is seen as
necessary to reduce costs, improve the quality, and overcome the financial constraint on
investments. In the telecommunications sector, the government has moved the farthest
through the enactment of the 1996 National Communications Act which set the basis for the
divestiture of 30 percent of Government shares in Ghana Telecom to an international
consortium led by Telekom Malaysia, and the grant of license for a second national network
to another international consortium, African Communications Group.



- 12-
45.   In the area of power generation and distribution, a bill setting out the regulatory
framework for private participation was submitted to Parliament in late 1997. The
Government also set up, with Parliamentary approval, a Public Utilities Regulatory
Commission to deliberate on the appropriate levels of power tariffs for ensuring the sector's
financial viability. After extensive public hearings, the commission recommended a modest
increase in two steps (February and September 1998) that the government realizes will still
leave the power utilities with operating deficits. These deficits will be covered by privatization
of assets and domestic borrowing. The government will collaborate with the World Bank to
formulate a plan for a transition to rates that restore the power sector's financial viability. The
Government plans to proceed with the planned GNPC Tano Field and Power Development
Project only if significant private equity participation is available. In rails and ports, the
government's objective is to improve operational efficiency and financial viability. To that end,
the government will seek private participation (for example, a concessional arrangement),
which will take into consideration the specific conditions of the Ghanaian transport market. In
large urban water supply systems, too, the Government will seek private participation.
46.    However, in some sub-sectors, public provision will continue to dominate. This is
particularly true for the maintenance, rehabilitation, and upgrading of the road network where
a five-year Highway Sector Investment Program, supported by several donors, was started in
1995 at a total cost of over US$1 billion. The Road Fund, established in 1985, was reformed
through legislation in September 1997 to render it autonomous and provide it with revenues
designated to cover all basic road maintenance. Similarly, the legislation governing the Ghana
Highway Authority is under revision, so that by early 1998, both financing and implementation
of road maintenance will be on a stable footing.
47.   Public funds will also be directed to investments in basic rural infrastructure such as
rural water supply, small-scale irrigation, village roads, post-harvest facilities (including
storage and marketing), and rural telecommunications as both residual financing and a catalyst
for private investments. But the government will seek to increase the efficiency of public
spending, raise the share of infrastructure public expenditures that are targeted to low-income
areas, and ensure the sustainability of these investments through community participation and,
where possible, cost recovery. In roads, the government will seek to increase private
participation in the management and maintenance of the existing road network, which
complements the ongoing reform of road maintenance financing.
Developing human resources
48.   Broad-based social development is critical to faster growth and a better quality of life
for all Ghanaians. Two-thirds of Ghana's poor live in rural areas and most have little access to
basic social services, wider access to which is a pre-condition for broad-based growth. The
government's strategy for social development, therefore, focuses on increasing the efficiency
and targeting of public social spending.



- 13 -
49.   To that end, the government has increased budgetary allocations for services
consumed by the poor and which promote service quality enhancements-primary health care,
basic education, and rural infrastructure. Nonwage expenditures in these sectors increased in
real terms over 1994-96 by 288 percent, 103 percent, and 266 percent respectively. In both
health and education, the government has adopted medium-term strategies focusing on
primary health services and on free and compulsory basic education. This has already been
translated in a Health Sector Investment Program and a Basic Education Sector Improvement
Program supported by several donors.
C. Statistical Issues
50.    The quality and timeliness of reporting of core economic statistics will be improved.
The government is undertaking steps to facilitate provision of fiscal data. This includes
strengthening the Policy Analysis Division in the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the
Accountant General, and the Ghana Statistical Service. An important step in improving
statistical reporting is the completion of a compilation of domestic payment arrears,
outstanding government loans, and loans guaranteed by the government and the BOG. The
government is committed to addressing a wide range of weaknesses in statistics, including the
lack of timely data on the national income accounts, inadequate data on public enterprises, and
a lack of data on the labor market. This will be done with technical assistance from a number
of bilateral agencies and the Fund.
D. Technical Assistance
51.    Ghana's program of macroeconomic adjustment and structural and sectoral reforms
will be supported by technical assistance from the World Bank, IMEF, and several bilateral and
multilateral agencies.
52.    The World Bank will assist the authorities in the following areas: implementation of
an expenditure control system; reevaluation of spending priorities in the social sectors;
development of a public service restructuring plan, including identifying areas for downsizing
of functions and employment, and specifying structural benchmarks; implementation of the
VAT; banking supervision; divestiture and privatization of parastatals; concessioning of rail
transport services and reform of the road network management and maintenance.
53.    The Fund will provide the following technical assistance: review monetary statistics
and the database management system of the BOG; assistance with improving the BOG's
banking supervision capacity-including a resident advisor-and developing the indirect
monetary control system of the BOG, including the introduction of a book entry system;
review of progress on the implementation of the VAT and general reform of the tax structure
and tax administration; and assistance with measures to improve the timeliness and quality of
statistics.



- 14-
Table 1. Ghana: Summary and Time Frane for Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1998-2000
Tining       Techakal
Polircy Area                Objectives and                        Strategies and Measures             of           Asistance
Targets                                                             Measures     Requirenents
L Ikgal
A. OveMal         Promote macroeconomic              Achieve an increase in the domestic primary budget  1998-2000
stability.                        surplus from 0.3 percent of GDP in 1996 to
3.2 percent of GDP in 1997 and 4.3 percent of
GDP in 1998, and about 5 percent in 1999-2000.
B. Revenu         Improve domestic revenue           Table in Parliament legislation to create a central  March 1998
mobilization. Strengthen tax      revenue authority.
administration.
Establish a central revenue authority.       June 1998
Ensure that no discretionary tax and customs  1998
exemptions can be granted without parliamentary
approval. Implement an exemptions monitoring and
reporting system, to ensure transparency and
control.
Restructure tax system in favor of  Introduce a VAT replacing the sales tax and  1998         1MF, 1998
expenditure-based taxation.       extending coverage to services and retail sectors.          DFED, 1998
Promote incentives for private                                                                WB, 19989
investment.
Complete the assignment of taxpayer identification   June 1998
numbers to the targeted group of taxpayers.
Simplify the tax system and convert specific excises  Budget 1998
to ad valorem rates.
Harmonize the withholding tax on dividends and on  Budget 1998
interest.
Gradually reduce cocoa taxation (see Agriculture)    1998-2000
Announce application of import withholding tax to   1999-2000
importers not registered for the VAT, in accordance
with the tax law
Adjust income tax brackets for inflation.    1999-2000
C. Enditure    Improve efficiency and                Reduce total spending relative to GDP, as per  1998-2000
effectiveness of public           program.
expenditure through improved
allocation and management of
public resources.                 Begin monthly projection of cash flow for the  March 1998
budget and monitor outtums as the basis for
managing the public sector borrowing requirement.



- 15-
Table 1. Ghana: Summary and Time Frame for Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1998-2000
Timing       Technkal
PolicyArea                  Objectives and                        Strategies and Measures             of           Assistance
Targets                                                             Measures     Requirements
Complete medium-term expenditure framework   June 1998     DFID, WB
(MTEF) for priority sectors of education, health,          1998-99
and roads. Prioritize investment projects consistent
with macroeconomic objectives and budget
constraints.
Cabinet approval of budget ceilings for priority  September
sectors and of the guidelines for the 1999 budget.    1998
Manual testing and phased implementation of  1998-2000    WB 1998-2000
BPEMS system to all ministries and spending units.
D. tol            Develop capacity at the local      Develop action plan for decentralization, including    1998  CIDA, 1998
govemment    government level to assist the       the design of financial and administrative
govemment in its decentralization  arrangements.
initiative.
IL Public         Achieve a smaller and more         Remedy operational deficiencies of the Integrated    June 1998  WB, 1998
-S<ectgr       effective public service.         Pcrsonnel and Payroll Database (IPPD) System.               DFID, 1998
Reform
Launch rationalization of the regulatory regime for   Budget 1998  WB, 1998
subvented agencies.
Launch rationalization of the size and pay structure   Budget 1998   WB, 1998
of civil service and subvented agencies.
Identify subvented agencies to be reincorporated  September
into the budget, privatized or closed.       1998
Accelerate and expand divestiture  From the divestiture list of state-owned enterprises   1998  WB, 1998-2000
program.                          (SOE) offer for sale an additional 20 SOEs and at
least two of the following: the State Housing
Corporation, State Insurance Corporation, and Mim
Timber processing plant.
m. Monetary          Reduce inflation through           Control monetary growth through targeting of  1998-2000
Poliv asnd       monetary restraint.               reserve money, as per program.
Financial
Sector           Encourage the mobilization of      Maintain positive real interest rates on bank  1998-2000
Reform          financial savings and encourage     deposits through appropriately tight liquidity
net inflows of capital.           management.
Enhance the effectiveness of the   Strengthen open market operations through the use   1998-2000    IMF, 1998
system of indirect monetary        of wholesale auction of treasury bills and refrain
control and develop the            from signaling indicative cutoff prices.
secondary market in domestic
debt instruments.
Introduce a centralized book-entry system at the  June 1998
Bank of Ghana.
Expand instruments of liquidity management to  June 1998
include repurchase agreements initiated by the
Bank of Ghana.



- 16-
Table 1. Ghana: Summary and Time Frame for Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1998-2000
Timing        Technical
PollcyArea                   Objectives and                         Strategies and Measures              or           Assistance
Targets                                                               Measures      Requirements
License appropriate number of primary dealers.  1998-2000    IMF, 1998
Review liquidity ratios with a view to reducing  1998-2000
then' to levels needed for prudential purposes.
Improve efficiency of financial    Divest 60 percent of the shares of the National  1998        WB, 1998
sector by acceierating finalScial  Investment Bank.
sector reforms and promoting
greater competition through         Offer for sale the Reinsurance Corporation after  December  WB, 1998
divestiture.                        commercial restructuring.                     1998
Strcngthen banking supervision.               1998-2000    vIF, 1998
WB, 1998
IV. Ertemar
Sector
A. Exchanng          Broaden and deepen the foreign      Encourage transactions among mark-et participants   1998
Svstcm           exchange market.                    by facilitating flow of information regarding market
conditions.
B. Extemal           Reduce extemal debt service         Strictly limit new short-term borrowing and adhere    1998-2000
Debt             burden.                             to ceilings envisaged in the program regarding new
MarfaRement                                          nonconcessional public and publicly guaranteed
borrowing. Publish list of guaranteed loans in the
budget documents.
Regularize relations with extemal  Interisify efforts to conclude bilateral agreements  1998
creditors.                         with Paris Club creditors regarding the deferred
arrears.
C. Trade Policv      Ensure that trade system            Reduce distortions through reduction of zero-rating   1998
enhances extemal                   and exemptions, and other measures.
competitiveness.
V. Sectoral
Polici
A Petroleum SeCtor
Reforms                                              Offer for sale GNPC's non-oil-related assets.  March 1998
Replace uniform national pump prices with uniform   March 1998
ex-rcgional depot wholesale prices.
Reduce GNPC's debt to the Bank of Ghana to
- %18 billion                           March 1998
- zero                                  June 1998
Offer for sale Tema Oil Refinery Ltd. and the  June 1998    WB, 1998
Ghana Oil Company Ltd.
Restructure GNPC and relieve it of all functions  1998
unrelated to hydrocarbon and energy-related
activities.



- 17-
Table 1. Ghana: Summary and Time Frame for Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1998-2000
Timing        Technical
Policy Arta                  Objectives and                         Strategies and Measures              of           Assistance
Targets                                                               Measures      Requirements
Decontrol retail petroleum prices (ex-depot) subject   1998-2000    WB, 1998
to safety and competition standards, followed by
the fully competitive operation of TOR.
Rationalize institutional responsibilities for  1998
hydrocarbon exploration to increase transparency.
B. AgaculturI         Liberalize the cocoa sector.       Increase farmers' share in fo.b. price of cocoa to:          WB, 1998-2000
Environment
56 percent                                  June 1998
58 percent                                  June 1999
60 percent                                  June 2000
Identify two-year program of cost-cutting measures   March 1998
for the Cocoa Board to support at least one half of
the intended increase in the share of the producers.
Offer for sale the Produce Buying Company     June 1998
(PBC).
Unify extension services of the Cocoa Board and  June 1998  WB, 1998-99
Ministry of Agriculture.
Ensure conservation of natural      Strengthen extension services to implement soil  1998-2000
resources and protection of the    fertility program.
environment
Increase stumpage fees to reduce subsidies for  1998-2000    WB, 1998-2000
wood processing and preserve forest resources.
Establish a national integrated water management    1998-2000    WB, 1998-2000
program with further strengthening and
development of the institutional and regulatory
framework.
C. Infrastructure
a. Urban          Increase coverage, quality, and     Increase coverage, quality, and efficiency of water    1998-2000    WB, 1998-2000
Infrastructure    efficiency of water supply,      supply, sanitation, waste management, and
sanitation, waste management,      drainage.
and drainage.
Increase private sector participation and cost  1998-2000    WB, 1998-2000
recovery in water supply, sanitation, waste
management, and drainage.
b. Rural          Expansion in coverage of feeder     Expand and improve feeder road network and     1998-2000    WB, 1998-2000
Infrastructure    roads and market infrastructure.  village market infrastructure.
C. Powe           Ensure the financial viability of   Increase electricity tariffs to restore and maintain  1998-2000    WE, 1998-2000
the power sector.                  the financial viability of power utilities.



-18-
Table 1. Ghana: Summary and Time Frame for Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1998-2000
Thning       Technical
PolcyAa                     Objectives and                         Strategies and Measures             of           Assistance
Targets                                                              Measures      Requirements
d. RQ1ft          Improve the road network.           Implement road improvement program as agreed  1998-2000    WB, 1998-2000
under the donor-supported Highway Sector
Investment Program.
a. Ed             Improve operational efficiency      Design and implement a concessioning scheme to    1998-2000    WB, 1998-2000
and financial viability.           the private sector.
£ EQIs            Improve operational efficiency     Increase participation of the private sector in port  1998-2000
and capacity.                      management and operations.
D. Human
Resouree
DcvdloRment
a. Education       Improve the quality of schooling,   Implement the donor-supported Basic Education  1998-2000    WB, DFID,
equity of access, and              Sector Improvement Program.                                 USAID, and
management efficiency and                                                                      others,
increase the literacy rate.                                                                    1998-2000
b. Healt           Improve health outcomes             Implement the donor-supported Health Sector   1998-2000   WVB,1998-2000
Investment Program.
VL Statistical       Improve quality and timeliness of  Bcgin publishing new national consumer priee  March 1998
issues           statistics.                        index.
Publish revised and updated national accounts  March 1998
(sources and uses) for 1995 and 1996.
Allocate resources and improve quality and    1998-2000    IMF, WB, DFID,
timeliness of national accounts and price, balance of       and others,
payments, public finance (including debt), and              1998-2000
monetary statistics.



- 19 -
Table 2. Ghana: Selected Economic and Financial Indicatprs 1994.2000
1994    1995    1996        1997        1998        1999        2000
Act        Prcl.       Pros        Proj.       Proj.
(Annual percentap chang, uniess otherwise specified)
National income and prices
Real GOP                                                   3.8     4.5       5.2          3.0         5.6         5.8         5.8
Re GDP per capit4                                          0.7     1.4       2.1         -0.1         2.5         2.7         2.7
Nominal GDP (in billions of cedis)                      4.950    7.418    10.385       13,863      17.655      20,378     22.873
Nomin  GDP                                               34.7    49.9       40.0         33.5        27.3        15.4        122
GDP deflator                                             29.8    43.4       33.1         29.6        20.6         9.1         6.1
Cozsumerpriceindex(amusltaverage)                        24.9    59.5       4S.6         27.9        15.5         8.0         5.3
Consumer price index (end of period)                     34.2    70.8       32.7         20.8        11.0         5.5         5.0
Extern tetor
Expors fo.b.                                              15.3    16.7       9.8         .3.S         9,7        14.3        10.1
Imports, fob.                                             .8.6     6.8      14.5          6.5         9.8         9.3         64
Export volume                                              2.6     0.3      12.5         .2.7         7.5        11.2         6.7
Import volume                                            -124     .0.5      13.8         -3.3        10.3         7.4         4.9
Terms of trade                                            3.1      7.3      -3.0          2.2         2.6         1.1         1.7
Nominal effective exchange rate i/                       .17.7   -23.5    -26.8            ...
Real effective exchange rate I/                          -17.6    14.9      12.2
C:dis per tLS dollars 1;                                  957    1.200     1.637        2.050
Government budget
Domesticrevenue                                          68.8    62.4       26.1         22.5        29.2        18.0        12.9
Total expenditure                                        44.2    45.5       43.5         11,2        24.2         2.4         9.7
Current expenditure                                     33.9    36.7       46.5         23.1        17.1         0.1        10.2
Capitalexpendistureandinetlending 2                     60.9    57.3       40.1         -3.4        35.3         5.5         9.0
Money and eredit 3/
Net domestic assets 4/                                   20.5    15.8       30.3         33.4         9.5        -1.1        -0.2
Credittogovemement 4/                                    .5.9     6.6      12.8         22.4         9.2         0.0        .4.4
Credittothe restofthe economy 41                        23.1    15.0       15.7         18.2         7.2         4.0         3.9
Broad money (including foreigp curency deposits) 5/      53.0    40.8       39.7         40.$        18.0        12.0        11.0
Reserve money                                            78.9    35.1       44.3         33.8        11.4        12.0        11.0
Velocity (GDP!averate broad money)                         5.2     5.4       5.1          4.9         5.1         5.1         5.1
Treasury bill rate in percent; (end of period)           29.5    40.5       42.8         40.0
(In percent of GDP. unless otherwise specified)
Invcstment and saving
Gross investrnent                                        16.9    18.6       18.6         16.0        17.9        18.1        19.5
oftwhsch: private                                        3.1     4.1        5.0         5.4         5.5         7.5         8.0
Grossnationalsaving                                       11.8    16.3      13.6         12.7        13.7        14.3        15.8
ofi4h4ch: prisate                                        7.1      9.4      9.3         10.7         8.3         7.6         8.1
Government budget
Domestic revenue                                         19.7    21.4       19.2         17.6        18.3        18.7        18.8
Total grants                                              3.7      3.8       3.0          0.9         2.9         1.7         1.6
Total expenditure 2'                                     32.8    31.8       32.6         27,2        27.5        24.4        23.8
Overall balance (commtitment basis)                       .9.3    46.7    -10.4          -8.6        46.3        -4,0        -3.4
Domestic primary balanee                                  0.8      1.6       0.3          3.3         3.8         3.8         3.9
Divestiture receipts                                      5.2      1.4       1.4          0.8         0.8         0.1         0.1
External se:tor
Currn:t account balance 6'                                .5.1    -2.3       .5,0        -3.3        .4.2        -3.9        -3.7
Current account balance 7/                                .9.0    -6.5       -8.3         .4         -7.3        46.6        -54
External debt outstanding                                94.5    95.0       97.3         93.6        95.2        92.0        87.7
External debt service. including to the Fund               7.3     9.2       7.5          8.2         8.7         8.1         6.7
(in perceat of exports of goods and nonfactor services)  27.4    35.8       27.4        32.9        33.2        28.9        23.4
(in percent of governmcnt revenue)                       36.9    42.0       38.7        46.2        47.7        43.3        34.4
(In millions of U.S. dollars. unless otherwise specified)
Currnt account balance Si                                -265    -142       -320        .220        -290         -287       .29S
Overall balanceofpaymenta                                 164      284       -13          -25         -40       -133        119
External payments arears (end of year)                    135      100         0           0           0           0           0
Gross intenmational reservcs (end of period)              593      710       606         466         478         573         653
(in months of imports, .i.f)                             4.1      4.6       3.4         2.8         2.7         2.9         3.1
Sources: Ghanaian authoritics; and Fund staff estimates and projections.
I ' Ann"il average data.
Z' Including capital outlays financed through external project aid and transfers to the local authorities.
3 From December 1996. the coverage was increased from I I to 17 banks.
4. In percent of broad money at the beginning of the period.
5' The program for 1996 was based on broad money excluding foreign currency deposits. The programoue4 growth was 5 percent,
and the outturn uas 34. percent.
6 Including official grants.
xeluding official grants.



- 20 -
Table 3. Ghana: Selected  Social and Deographic  icators
Latest single year          Same egion/mcome goup
3bSaharn        low
1970.75    198045    1990.95        Africa       income
Area
Total land area (square kilometers)                            328,540
Agricultural land (in pecent of total)                            41.0
Population
Total population, midyear (millions)          9.8       12.6      17.1        583.4       3,179.9
Grwth rate (annual average in prcent)         2.2        3.7       2.6          2.8           1.6
Urban population (population in percent)     30.1       32.3      36.3          31.1         28.6
Total fertility rate (births per woman)       6.6        6.5       3.1           5.7          3.2
Population age structure (percent)
0-14 years                                                       43.0
15-64 years                                                     53.0
65 and above                                                     4.0
Life expectancy at birth (years)
Total                                        50.0      53.0       59.0         52.0          63.0
Male                                       48.0       52.0       57.0         51.0         62.0
Female                                     52.0       55.0       61.0         54.0         64.0
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)           107.0      98.0       73.0         92.0          69.0
Under age 5 (per thousand live births)        ...        ...     116.0         157.0        104.0
Adult (aged 15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                  ...       ...      320.0        433.0        244.0
Fenale (per 1,000 population)                          ...     253.0         359.0        211.0
Matenal (per 100,000 live births)             ...   1,000.0      742.0           ...          ...
Income
GNP per capita (USS)                        300.0     360.0      350.0        490.0        430.0
Consumer price index (1990=100)                ...     31.0      323.0           ...          ...
Food price index (1990=100)                   ...      26.0      307.0           ...          ...
Income/consumnption distribution
(percent of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile                               ...        ...       7.9           ...          ...
Highest quintile                              ...        ...      42.2           ...          ...
Social indicators
Public expenditure (percent of GDP)
Health                                       ...       ...        1.6          ...           ...
Education                                   3.6        1.9        3.4          ...           ...
Social security and welfare                  ...       ...        ...          ...           ...
Health and nutrition
Access to safe water (percent of population)
Total                                      35.0        ...       56.0         47.0         53.0
Urban                                    86.0       57.0       76.0           ...          ...
Rural                                     14.0      40.3       46.0           ...          ...
Per capita supply (1993)
Calories (per day)                                            2,141
Protein (gams per day)                                           34           ...          ...



- 21 -
Table 3. Ghana. Selected Social and Demogaphic MIdicators
Latest single year       Same region/income group
Sub-Sahara     Low
1970-75   198045   1990-95         Africa      Income
linmunization rate (percent under 12 months)
Measla                                       ...       ...       68           60           77
DPT                                          ...       22        71        .58             80
Child malnutrition (percent under 5 yean)      ...      ...        27          ...          42
Labor force
Total labor force (in millions)                                   8
Participation rate (in percent)
Total                                                          47
Male                                                           44
Female                                                          51
Education (1993)
Enrollment rates (in percent of age group)
Primary enollment                                              76
Female                                                        70
Secondary enrollment                                           36
Female                                                        28
Literacy (in percent of population
15 years and older)                                              60
Poverty incidence (percent of population
below the poverty line) 1/                        197-.88      1992
National head count index                            36.9       31.4
Urban head count index                              41.9      26.7
Rural head count index                              36.4      34.3
Sources: Ghana Statistical Service, Quarterly Digest of Statistic; IMF, Intemational Financial Statis ics;
and the World Bank.
1/ Poverty lile estimated at Cedi 132,230 per year as at mid-1992. Based on the living standards surveys
conducted by the Ghana Statistical Service in collaboration with the World Bank during 1987/88,1988/98,
and 1991/92.



- 22 -
Table 4. Ghana: Extemal Financing Requirements and Sources, 1995-99
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
1995      1996       1997       1998       1999
Estimate       Projections
Current account                          -402      -525       -435       -505       -484
(excluding official transfers)
Exports,f.o.b.                         1,431     1,571      1,511      1,658      1,895
Inports, fo.b.                       -1,687     -1,932     -1,805     -1,982     -2,165
Services (net)                         -409       -441      -437       -492       -529
Private transfers                       263        276        296       311        314
Capital account                          -79       -204       -288       -302       -179
Scheduled amortization                 -330       -203      -258       -328       -374
IMF repayments                         -108       -125       -166      -138        -75
Other capital (net)                     359        124        136       164        271
Change in official reserves (increase-)  -187        99        140        -12        -95
Change in arrears (decrease -)           -35       -100          0          0          0
External financing requirements         -703       -731       -583       -819       -758
Expected disbursements                   703        631        583        819        650
Grants                                 263        206        216        215        198
Project                               179        153        184       188         185
Program                                84         52        31         27          13
Concessional loans                     397        386        367        493        415
Project                               322       314        326        388        357
Program                                75         72        41        105         59
IMF                                     43         40          0        111         37
Debt deferral/rescheduling                 0        100          0          0          0
Residual financing gap                     0          0          0          0        108
Sources: Ghananian authorities; and Fund staff estimates and projections.



- 23 -
Table 5. Ghana: External Public Debt and Debt Service Payments, 1994-2002
(In millions of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified)
1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   2001    2002
Est.                  Projections
Total public and publicly guranteed debt   5,703   5,875   6,174   6,324   6,605   6,796   6,908   6,967   6,925
Of wlJich
Multilateral(includinglMF)             4,226   4,298   4,662   4,752   4,971    5,083   5,134   5,126   5,014
Bilateral                              1,302   1,400   1,484   1,532   1,633   1,713    1,773    1,842   1,910
Other'                                  175      178      28      40       0        0       0        0       0
External public debt service
Principal                                  270      438     328     424      466     450     406      389     358
Mediumnterm                               130      256     127      172     198     252      240     230     210
Longtenn                                   57       75      77      86      130     122      128     125     133
IMe repurchases                            83      108     125     166      138      75      38       34      15
Interest                                    106     128     144     127      141     150      125     126     134
Mediun term                                36       45      61      65      66       73      55       57      60
Long term                                  59       72      73      54      70       72      66       65      70
IMF charges                                11       11      11       8       6        5       4        4       4
Total
hicludinglRAF                             376      566     473     551     607      600     532      515     492
Excluding HMF                             282      447     337     377     463      520     489      477     473
Memorandun items:
External public debt-service ratioc
Including M                               27.4    35.8    27.4    32.9    33.2    28.9    23.4.   20.8    18.6
ExcludingIMF                              20.5    28.3    19.5    22.5    25.3    25.0    21.5    19.3    17.8
Ratio of extenal public debt service to GDP3
Including MF                               7.3     9.2     7.5      8.2     8.7     8.1      6.7     6.1      5.4
Excluding IMF                              5.4     7.2     5.3      5.6     6.7     7.0      6.2     5.6      5.2
Ratio of external public debt service to GDF3  110.2    95.0    97.3    93.6    95.2    92.0    87.7    82.2    75.8
Sources: Ghanaian authorities; and Fund staff estimates and projections.
'Consists of short-term oil credits, Cocoa Board debt, and Bank of Ghana debt.
2 In percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services.
3In percent.



IBRp 23606
3-                            2-                             1-                            1O                                                               2-
BURKINA FASO
8~~~~~ eO   ,b_ __   ..)Pulimokom ......1_
7- -7i.- -  -   '. -  --GTNA    
\UPP.odu           n   GHANA
PRIMARY ROADS
............   SECONDARY ROADS
NO$ A RTHERN    (                    *< s4   -eJ                          TERTIARY ROADS
D.   ~ ~ ~ ~ TAAE                                                   0- I-  ALWAYS
4 4 i   ~   ~   ~  Zb            ii    REGION HEADQUARTERS
tDo         6                 ..  -                                  Cdusbulg                         4 X        *       NATIONAL CAPITAL
S . <$,Bole  Dsrnsn5u0      Ya3wn,}@z            g                                  .  j            _      REGION BOUNDARIES               9_
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
The boundaries, colors,
C6TE                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~denominations and any
other in formation shown
D IVOIRE                                                                                                                     on th.33    <   i   0   k o n r 8m   ismhPIYW°lm ma part of
Th 'Wrd Ban'  rop
*   any judgment on the legal'
status of any terrdiory
orany endorsement
or acepace of such
-e .<mpo   '          /       g6 Kmhmpo  -           {                     <                                     bo )-undaries 
A,b.b.                                                    0 .  .  1 .  8RONG-AFO  . . .; it0o   a   2n  n 0  40  50W LES
B16 'Lz I.I 80  <             '"                                                                   20   40   6    00 SKLoMTERS
0 M6- qOFORU
Bibi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~tIBl                                           ea
FEBRUARY 1995



