Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3094 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Reform Support Operation)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 13, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3094 GH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 14, 1998 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association; 
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit as hereinafter provided; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions.” 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted.
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.” 
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
“MTEF” means the Borrower’s medium-term expenditure framework, the 
purpose of which is to integrate the process of sectoral policy decision-making and 
priority setting for budgetary allocations for the period 1998-2000; 
(c)
“VAT” means the Value Added Tax system described in the Value Added Tax 
Act, 1998 (Act 546) of the laws of the Borrower;  
(d)
“Energy Commission” means the Commission established pursuant to the 
Energy Commission Act, 1998 (Act 541) of the laws of the Borrower; 
(e)
“Subvented Agencies” means implementing agencies set up by statute or 
executive order to provide public services and which derive their funding from 
subsidies explicitly included in the Borrower’s budget for specific fiscal years;
(f)
“Bank of Ghana” means the central bank of the Borrower established 
pursuant to the Bank of Ghana Act (PNDC Law 291 of 1992) of the laws of the Borrower; 
(g)
“Public Utilities Regulatory Commission” mans the Commission established 
Page  3
by the Borrower pursuant to the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission Act, 1997 (Act 
538) of the laws of the Borrower; 
(h)
“Cabinet” means an organ of the Borrower’s government comprising the 
President, the Vice President and Ministers, as specified in Article 76 of the 
Borrower’s Constitution of 1992; 
(i)
“BPEMS” means the Budgeting and Public Expenditure Management System 
adopted by the Borrower in 1998 to support better budgetary preparation and 
implementation, improved cash management and strengthened accounting functions on an 
integrated computerized basis; and  
(j)
“Divestiture” means the disposal, including liquidation and concessions, 
by the Borrower of an interest held by the Borrower in any statutory corporation, 
company or partnership. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million, one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in U.S. dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Deposit Account in support of the Program. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2008 and ending May 1, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Governor of the Bank of Ghana is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
Page  5
reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date, Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has issued budget guidelines 
satisfactory to the Association for the preparation of the 1999 budget, including 
instructions for the preparation of  the 1999 budget on an MTEF basis.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M.40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECONOMICON
2205 MIFAEPGH
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the Accra, Ghana, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Victor Selormey 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter Harrold 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa Region
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
Page  7
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph, the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;  
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble of this Agreement
The Borrower has: established the tax identification numbering system for all 
tax payers so as to harmonize tax collection information and to monitor compliance by 
tax payers with the various taxes as specified in the Borrower’s relevant tax 
legislation; promulgated the VAT Act and has established  the VAT at a rate of 10%; 
(a) adopted the MTEF, which includes a three year rolling plan (1998-2000) for 
allocation of resources; and (b) prepared the MTEF manual for implementing the MTEF in 
three priority sectors in 1999 and for all sectors in subsequent years; established a 
subcommittee of the Cabinet to oversee its public sector management reform program, 
and selected key professional staff to support the operations of the Cabinet; adopted 
a public sector reinvention and modernization strategy which will guide the Borrower 
in carrying out reforms in: (a) the structure of the government; (b) human resource 
requirements for the government; (c) systems and processes; (d) accountability 
framework; and (e) relations with the general public, especially with the private 
sector; (a) completed the design of the BPEMS, and (b) selected a contractor for the 
installation, testing and customization of the computer software for BPEMS; (a) 
adopted a program for reforming Subvented Agencies, which includes a list of agencies 
to be closed down, those to operate on a partially commercial basis and those to 
operate on a fully commercial basis, in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to 
the Association; and (b) decided, in the pilot phase of the above-mentioned program, 
to close at least five such agencies, to operate on a partly commercial basis at least 
seven agencies and to operate on a fully commercial basis at least five other agencies 
on the basis of a timetable satisfactory to the Association; implemented significant 
tariff increases in both the energy and water sectors to strengthen the financial 
viability of the sectors; enacted the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission Act and 
has established the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission which is responsible for 
regulating the water and power sectors, including the establishment, from time to time 
of utility prices and service standards; enacted the Energy Commission Act and has 
established the Energy Commission, which is responsible for implementing strategies 
Page  8
under a restructured energy sector in order to create a conducive environment to 
attract private capital, promote competition and enhance efficiency; and (a) revised 
the list of state-owned companies to be divested to include the following: Ghana 
National Petroleum Corporation (non-core assets), Tema Oil Refinery, Ghana Airways, 
Ghana Oil Company, Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, Ghana Ports and Harbours 
Authority, Ghana Railways Corporation, Ghana Commercial Bank, the National Investment 
Bank, the Agricultural Development Bank, the Bank for Housing and Construction and 
decided on their divestiture by the end of 2000; and (b) adopted a policy whereby the 
divestiture of such state-owned companies would be contracted out on a competitive 
basis to private consulting firms or investment banks.
