Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No: 24187
Th7,XfT rlkAVT:Tr A rTTrVKT CCTh,LrSYI 'rTn'KT DE-nCDr
J.IVI1 JL,LAVAL-all I rl I L%,JI, ...AJLIEI L,1L, I X%Jk' 'IN '..LJVI'.. L
(IDA-289 1 0)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.4 MILLION
TO THE
KYRCTY7 RFPTTRTTrC
rFOD A
FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
06/28/2002
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 10, 1993)
Currency Unit = Som
I 'Om    TTVZC A.A)
US$ I =   48 Soms
FISCAL YEAR
january 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APEAC          Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CLD            Central Legal Database
DEBRA          Debt Restructuring Agency
FINIDA         Finnish international Development Agency
FINSAC         Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
LAS            intemational Accounting Standards
JTC            Judicial Training Center
iviMr          Minisry of Finance
MOJ            Ministry of Justice
NBPIT          "on-'an' financial insti-u:ions
ILj1L I        I,UjULN V   LUL  I  Ia   LiUtIVUII3
NBKR           National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic
PESAC          Pri.v*vate a nSd r n t e.LF O. Je SS ec: or AdAjus.,.en:f A.-edi
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PMU            Project Management Unit
PSR            Project Status Report
QAE            Quality at Entr,
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
SCS_           Stnte Cnrnmiiqinn on nemritieq
SOSAC          Social Sector Adjustment Credit
TACIS          Technical assistance nrogram for Eastern Eurone and Central Asia
TAP            Techncal Assistance Program
TOR            Tenns of Reference
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WRI            World Bank Institiite
V IceP residrUIIL.  JUII.'Io n  Li,nI
Country Manager/Director:     Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager/Director:    Ira Lieberman
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Paula Genis



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
VINT A XTdT1 AT 1  rtTcD T1 ' crV&fTWT  AX A QeTQT A MW VDnT 1W4CT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Prinripal Performnan^e Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               8
6. Sustainability                                                                   9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  11
9. Paner Comments                                                                   !2
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               23
Aniiex u. Ra:ings oI Bar.k anU  Borrower P ierfo LIU ..ance 24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              25






IProiect ID: P045631                                     I Proiert Name: FIN SECT TA
Team Leader: Paula Genis                                 TL Unit. ECSPF
ICR Type: CoreIC 1                                       ReportDate: June 27, 002
1. Project Data
Name: FIN SECT TA                                    L/CITF Number: iDA-289i0
CountujDepartment: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                      Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/04/95                               Effective:                    03/09/96
Appraisal:  03/14/96                                 MTR:
Approval:  06/25/96                                Closing:  12/31/2001         12/31/2001
Borrowi er/Inplementing Agency:  The Kvr2z Republic/The National Bank of the Kvrpvz Republic
Other Partners:  Ministry of Justice, DEBRA, Central Registry of Pledges, Judicial Training
Center, State Commission on Securities
STAFF                Current                                   At Annrnisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Johannes Linn
C..untrv iVtanager.-  renn-is de Tray                          Yukon Huacng
Sector Manager:      Ira Lieberman                             Michael A. Gould
Icam Leader at ICR:  rauia Genis                               F. Aynur Suner
ICR Primary Author:  Paula Genis
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely. HU=Highly Unsatisfactorv. H=High. SU=Substantial, M=Modest. N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sus:ainability: L
l.nsti.hotio .a Dvelop; e ;t  lL.p SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entrr:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Tinie: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
IK; UUJ~L.LZVro V1 L1kV, 1it'. Ii - IL1 LI UJV%L4 I W4.5 LV bUUIJPIL LI1V IllIpiCiiCilhLdLIUIi U1 LI1 lildFllaml4l ar%LUI.
Adjustment Credit (FINSAC, CY 1996) and the Government's Financial Sector Reforn Program by: (i)
L es.hnin u.e -- ail:e ---  uCLe Borrower's financial            ----- 3eAl:r in:i;Non audti)assin AeB.- o
LkLIiLrt5 UK1, CapajJu11Ll3 VI Ul~ IJU11 I~ a Jil14a1AaI aiIu 1vrUiaLUJ_J I1iaLILULIU1LO allU KIJ) a4IaLLII%Ulv LJI10WIINV
in the establishment of new, temporary institutions that will effect the restructuring/liquidation of major banks. It
pr-oviAed -Acilla.- "Aing to -S extensive technAical assistane A.-uAdi- pro.-.. TAD)  hchwst spo
Ur~I.. U alaI, .I -L,   ...fl411   Lv 0,1  -.*   fl   IV .L..1lS.0  aoILaJIV.  £UIUIII5, p*J1Vr 111 1, nI ~  WIIIL  WOLO LU SUppOrIt
FINSAC additionally through (iii) extending the new accounting infrastructure and (iv) training bank personnel.
1C;TXT A s >|;n;brP'w*4      ; re;     ;nA;t    AolttArto               A..soP Ve +_s + Ak- -.A. 1
s As-A LIiLp;rl, a oJ-4-- ---.-v.   f..  1v a- jJVI.-, -an. *-du-LoL, enIvtironment cuWVS... V Lv LaV Iv r,VWU&
of a competitive and efficient banking system, (ii) liquidation of two dominant and insolvent State-owned banks
anrd d oi A-vnSni andg fnan.ci at r usrcturmnAg of htvo other forme r dorrminanrt ar.d innsolvnt Cat*ae-,o,mned banks, anrd
(iii) creation of a regulatory and supervisory framework for the development and growth of emerging non-bank
finar.cia! incstitutions.
The. Prnipoet wam imnnrtqnt fnr the *-untrv's nrinritipe in the finanr.cia ecp tnr (int-^!idjn4r Actahlichment of lalea
institutional and regulatory framework in 1995 for the medium term). The Project objectives were consistent with
the' CAR hiph-cnne s.enario for 1995-19R (pinnnrr nfthF crnnqn1idatinn nfthei qtnirtnrAl refnrm Pffnrt.-' includincg
the financial sector, and strengthening institutional capacity). After closure of FINSAC in 1997 and during the
1999-2001 CAS nerind, the Proiect's objectives were important for the Borrower's develonment strategy (including
improvement of the law-making process, strengthening the capacity of judiciary, training ofjudges, and
development of non-bank financial institutions) and relevant for the CAS_
The Project objectives were auite ambitious and demanding to the Borrower. Although the National Bank of the
Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR) had a good track record in absorbing TA, the country's absorptive capacity and sufficient
focus of the technical assistance program caused concem in IDA during preparation. The Proiect itself was
complex with 8 components, support in establishment of institutions, numerous procurement activities (in addition,
the TAP involved 9 donors). Timely availability of well qualified and experienced TA personnel to launch the
ambitious reform program was another major risk identified in the Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the
President.
3.2 Revised Objective:
After the closure of FINSAC (end- 1997), the Project objectives were specified in the project status report (PSR)
dated from February 1999, as follows: (a) strengthening the legal and regulatory framework and the capabilities of
the key financial and regulatory institutions; (b) assisting with the establishment of a new, temporary Debt
Resolution Agency (DEBRA) that will effect the restructuring/liquidation of major banks and recover, write-off,
sell or restructure the non-performing loan portfolio's of these banks; (c) implementing the legal and judicial
reforms through improving the legal database and enhancing access to legal information by the Government's
agencies, and training of judges, lawyers and prosecutors; (d) helping to establish a central registry for pledges
with regional offices in six regions; (e) improve the payments and clearing system in Bishkek and key regions; and
(f) improving the legal and regulatory framework and prudential supervision of non-bank financial institutions,
including the securities market. No loan amendment was made because the above objectives were within the
original objectives. The accounting (iii) and bank training (iv) components funded by donors were dropped from
the original objectives described in the Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the President.
3.3 Original Coomponentts:
The original components that supported FINSAC conditionalities were the following:
(I) Overall reform of thefinancial sector: (a) senior advisor to the NBKR to assist with the implementation and
coordination of the FINSAC reform program and to advise the NBKR management on policy and operational
issues (IDA - $87,000) and (b) lawyer for NBKR to finalize various financial legislation (IDA - $75,000).
(2) Bank Restructuring and Liquidation: (a) reorganization advisor to the NBKR to rationalize the branch
networks of Agroprombank and Elbank (IDA - $70,000) and (b) advisor to the AKB Kyrgyzstan and
- 2-



Promstroibank to provide policy and operational advice to the NBKR management on credit policies, advice on
financial restructuring and help to attract domestic and/or foreign investors (IDA - $100,000).
(3) Debt Recovery and Resolution: (a) asset sales and liquidation specialist who would also help organize DEBRA,
establish its operations, and manage the asset sales and liquidation process (IDA - 365,000) and (b) specialist for
DEBRA to coordinate work-out teams and to manage the recovery of outstanding balances in the non-performing
loan portfolios of the intervened banks (IDA - $200,000). Establishment of DEBRA was a FINSAC conditionality.
(4) Central Registryfor Pledges: Enactment of the Law on Pledges and establishment of the central registry with a
regional network for registration of pledges and monitoring of pledge contracts were FINSAC conditionalities (IDA
- $350,000).
(5) Non-Bank Financial Institutions: (a) advisor to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to set up a new accounting
syte  an_ to _mrveL _  ----- __- _- At_____  __  _ __  E_  _  2  rr A 0  nAnt --A fU -A. .:- A-
system anu to inprove ULH orguuIIZdtIU1 UIIU IdI1IdrIIICII III IIIVCbtililIL tUUIIU L (IWI - UIU,UIV) allu UJvOVI LV
the MOF to provide guidance and training in developing the market on insurance services (IDA - $60,000).
(6) Public Debt Instruments and Securities: advisor to the MOF to provide advice, guidance and policy strategies
Julr th-e deVvelopmen: and deepening of GoveS.ent deUt mstru.ents ard . secu..ties (,'D A = C I 0,).f I
JIr .1 A      AA, A  +1..,. rnnrnr4Agtv *  ,,rt ,cnn . n rr inc .ludAea
(7) 7T-in,.g --blishment of a p-! infnrmnatin atabahep and scutem whirh was t aim at dtiseminating this
information collection nationwide via a computer station network, with hard copy back-ups available (IDA -
120_000). Th. Project .wac connernmeid ahbout imnrmvement nf the distrihbtinn asceesqihiitvq and iusage nf the legal
information. Despite the impressive list of core economic legislation enacted and prepared during 1995-1997,
inrnnsiqtpncipq within the legidIatinn remained and the canacitv fnr intermretation. anplication and enforcement
needed considerable strengthening.
(8) Improvement of the Payment and Clearing System of the NBKR (IDA - $1,000,000 and donorfunds).
The following activities that supported FINSAC or the reform program were going to be funded by donors
according to the TAP:
Bank Supervision: bank examiner for NBKR to train on-site supervision staff on the job, by guiding examiner
teams through some actual examinations, and to monitor the problem banks.This advisor was supposed to provide
additional expertise, in particular in on-site supervision, to NBKR in addition to existing TA funded by donors.
Implementation of Chart ofAccounts: accounting specialists for NBKR to implement the new chart of accounts,
prepare new reporting formats and standards, manuals for practitioners, pilot tests and staff training.
Non-bankfinancial institutions: (a) advisor to the State Agency for Securities (now State Commission on
Securities) and to MOF to provide guidance and training in development of the securities market and (b) advisor to
review pension fund schemes, recommend changes and help to design new schemes.
Training: (a) consultants' services, equipment and training to establish and support a bankers' training institute and
(b) provision of training to lawyers.
Mortgage Financing: mortgage specialist to study the situation in the mortgage financing area and to identify
opportunities for creating mechanisms for mortgage financing.
Rural Finance: lawyer to the MOF and Ministry of Agriculture to draft legislation/regulations for the development
of rural credit unions and cooperatives.
The above components were related to achieving the objectives. They responded appropriately to inadequate
expertise or equipment necessary for fulfilling the key conditionalities in the FINSAC program and other key
elements in the Borrower's Financial Sector Reform Program. The mix of assistance was as follows: 44% of IDA's
funding was intended for equipment, the other half, for training and consultants. IDA was to fund 46% or $3.4
million of TAP of $7.34 million. The allocations for components were very specific, but flexibility was built into
the design by allocating funds in the legal agreement by disbursement categories (goods, services), not by
- 3 -



comnonents (i.e.. the Borrower was able to reallocate amounts between components without loan amendments
given the disbursement categories were not overdrawn).
The complexity of the Project put pressure on the capacity of the Borrower's internal organization to manage and
benefit from TA. Both the Borrower and IDA recognized that the Government's implementation capacity was
insufficient for the FINSAC program, although IDA's experience with implementation of projects in the country
had been good and the Government was committed to reform. Nevertheless, the Proiect itself did not include
assistance to the NBKR Monitoring Unit, only to beneficiaries of FINSAC.
3.4 Revised Components:
In 1998 a new component was added to the Project, supporting institutional development of the Social Fund and
Tax Inspectorate. It supported the IDA-funded Social Sector Adjustment Credit's (SOSAC, 1998) conditionalities.
At the request of the Government and in coordination with the IDA SOSAC team, the following reallocations were
made: (a) up to $120,000 to support the Social Fund and the Tax Inspectorate Coordination activities and (b)
$88,000 to finance a consultant to convert the Social Fund's accounts to an accrual system based on IAS. The
component (a) became increasingly important as IDA embarked on a Social Sector Adjustment Program under the
SOSAC. Submission of a satisfactory plan for the coordination of the Tax Inspectorate and Social Fund collection
efforts, including use of a common identification number for workers and employers, joint audits, and exchanges of
collection related information, became one of the Board conditions of SOSAC. Evidence of satisfactory
implementation of the joint contribution collection plan was made a second tranche release condition. SOSAC also
required to take measures to improve the Social Fund's accounting and management. The use of the Project funds
for this component was reported in the President's Report on SOSAC dated November 5, 1998 and the PSR on the
Project dated from February 1999. This revision was not considered a major change that would require an
amendment to the Project's iegal agreements. Trne Social Fund, similar to the Pension Funds, was considered a
"non-bank financial institution". As such, providing assistance to it was not considered to violate the "spirit" of the
TA operation.
J. Quealit at Elntrry.
In the ICR stage the QAE is rated as satisfactory.
*   The Project concept and objectives were consistent with CAS for 1995-1998 and CAS for 1999-2001. They
respondueIlU to eIU B o   developmer.t p.lor.ties
*   The original components were appropriate and fairly specific. They supported specific tasks related to the
Ullj.it~&i,~.l,LQlLfl U I. a, LiL%, i a. Sector Rd.n. I mgln fo..,f. P.-o4. y either -spondeU di.ecly to olmts
gaps or strengthened institutional capacity in organizations established under the FINSAC/reform program.
*   It wOlJ appropriate' to coordinate t Lhe donor act-ivities with the  !SCoA 1- 5 .
*   The share of the Credit funding vs. donor funding and estimates of the available donor funding proved to be
nnrpal.ct. because in th.e end thd.  decided not to withdraon the Creit.-fr coni tst' -e -e.-.
*   The Technical Annex of the Memorandum of the President stated clearly the roles and responsibilities of the
key, inctstitions inunluvd in thle Project (NIW1R a FIZSAC Revieu, Cnmm,ccain chaired by the Primo Minicter
or his designee, a FINSAC Monitoring Unit in NBKR and Project Management Unit (PMU), already
petnblished in the MOF iunelpr the Priu.te and fntrprnri.s Spetor Adiiictment Credit (PESAC) and ultili7PA hu
the Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjusment Credit (APEAC) operations).
*   Althhough NBKR hada good implernentation record, the Projert did not include rmeasuires to ensure that NBKR
has enough capacity to manage the procurement process for such a large TAP. It is true that at the time of
nrnioet nrennratinn  qe.zQrnmentq nf the nrniect inmplemen.ttinn init'q (P!U ) nrr'remmernnt annd finannial
management capacity were not so extensive as now. To assist NBKR, the Memorandum of the President did
contain termrz nfreferenees (TOR) for all the consultant's positions except for one (pensionn A time-table was
agreed for procurement of the IDA-funded TA in the Memorandum of the President.
*   The Memnrandlm of the President identified the rnnin fnrtnrq thAit wPrP rritirnil tn the nroiprt (timelv
availability of TA personnel to implement the reform program and the concerned institutions' capacity to
absorb TA and tn carry on refnrms after the expatriates have left) The BoRrrwer's cnmmitment tn reform and
good implementation record were considered sufficient to mitigate these concems.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Obiective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project's outcome is rated as satisfactory.
(a) Strengthening the legal and reguiatory framework and the capabilities of the key financial and regulatory
institutions. NBKR took lead in policy planning and implementation of the comprehensive financial sector reform
efrort and was successful in implementation and coordination of the key policy and institutionai reforms envisaged
under FINSAC. The tranche release conditions for F[NSAC were satisfactorily and reasonably timely met (they
were met in November X 997, two months later than originally envisionea). Tne slight delay was due to the delayed
establishment of the Central Registry of Pledges. The Borrower's and NBKR's commitment contributed to
successful implementation of the program. instead of the iDA Credit, donor funds, some of which were raised in
connection with FINSAC, financed TA to NBKR. During FINSAC a set of key financial laws were enacted or
sUbmil.U iV iheC PardIlldilnnR alter F;NSt-AC Lt: nrf.j.f f IDAt* fnding:. was not used .au pr…ption VI leistion.
(U)/ IA.sJirg withf th5e estubflUBrismtL oJ U IfwW, rerfporauy diuut ,-esoludlO,l agerncy (LJLDEBA) ithut will LeJLeci theL
restructuring/liquidation of major banks and recover, write-off, sell or restructure the non-performing loan
por.d;.' of.L--- X,.T. W M D e..zlis1A hed DD A -._.A_ FTLTNAC in 199I6 .--- as an ide n   --A
YU' &JU&S  aIJ 3   19 rCsC; lUWS"l. ifl"flJ   ILabj3laMU  WS.,j LfUELtL.f U &t1SfI . Al  L1J~ QD all ISIUUjJ~UIULIIL U~UL LUAAV~VU5  MGa
resolution agency under its control. DEBRA became operational in October 1996. It was mandated to take control
over and dispose of the assets and liabilities of the former State=controlled comnme-cial ban.ks deemed insolvent by
NBKR. DEBRA's mandate was until May 1999, but it was extended to May 2002 because of new problems in the
finrand.ca sector. in SepVr-mber 2!enni t . onf  -ae hroncferr-e frnm the 1nkRI to MOFP. It roIle;. -n,w to: (f
facilitate bank resolution through conservation of assets and liquidation of activities; (ii) pursue restitution from
Ct2kephflfIPrs dirpetors, and mn.nagpr whn hadr enntrihiiteii tn thp insolvencvynr hdaninikntrv nf hanks; and {rc
recover assets of failed banks. In the past, DEBRA's operations have been hampered by administrative and
financial constraints (!ow cmiletinn- diffi.curIes in retaining experienced stafT).
Durina FLNSAC DEBRA was charged with the liquidation and recovery of Agronrombank loans (the largest bank
and the main lender to the agricultural sector) and recovery of Elbank's loans. Closure of Agroprombank and
Elbank contributed to stabilization of the banking system. Two other big banks, Promstroibank and AKB
Kyrgyzstan Bank, were restructured and received injections from the Government to meet the second tranche
release conditions. Some of their recoverable debts were transferred to DEBRA. Today Promstroybank and AKB
Kyrgyzstan are among the largest banks in the country. Of these outcomes, the Project supported DEBRA's work in
meeting the second tranche release conditions, including assistance with the sale of assets and liquidation
processes, and setting up DEBRA's operations.
During August 1 996-October 2001, DEBRA recovered loans of 1 I banks out of 15 banks the loans of which were
given to it. DEBRA performed partly quite well during the first years of its establishment. Recoveries ranged
between 37 percent to 48.5 percent for pre-independence agricultural loans acquired from Agroprombank,
Promstroibank, Aman Bank. Now recovery ratios are declining sharply. By July 2001 DEBRA had been able to
recover 24.1% of the managed assets, but this performance was mainly due to recovery rates during the first 1-2
years of its existence.
(c) Implementing the legal and judicial reforms through improving the legal database and enhancing access to
legal information by the Government's agencies, and training ofjudges, lawyers and prosecutors. Establishment of
the Central Legal Database (CLD) in the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) with the Project funds and improvement of the
Government's access to legal information was an important achievement of the Project. All State organs on the
republic and oblast levels are connected to CLD and, according to the Government's decree dated from 2001, the
normative legal acts become effective only after being published in CLD. CLD contains 19,000 legal normative
acts. Access to CLD was provided to the following entities through the State computer network: the House of
Representatives, the Legislative Assembly, the President's office, the Prime Minister's office, the Supreme Court,
the Constitutional Court, the Arbitration Court, the Court Department, the Judicial Training Center, the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs, the MOJ's seven regional offices and the National Library. The Project supported improvement
of the access of State organs to the State computer network. As part of the program, a massive judicial training was
- 5-



organized in 1998-2001 in commercial and banking law. This contributed to improvement of understanding of the
laws and enforcement, although enforcing the new laws are still major obstacles to the country's overall economic
growth and development.
(d) Helping to establish a Central Registryfor Pledges with regional offices in six oblasts. The enactment of the
Law on Pledge and the establishment of a central registry system for pledges to ensure security rights were second
tranche release conditions. On the basis of the Law enacted in May 1997, MOJ founded the system of registration
offices: the Central Registry in Bishkek and a regional network, including now five regional offices. The Central
Registry became fully operational in September 1997. The Registry's and its regional offices' operations have been
computerized and automated.
(e) Improve the payments and clearing system in Bishkek and key regions. The Project supported the establishment
of the automated clearing and settlement system for NBKR and the six regional centers. Previously this did not
exist, and all such transactions were executed manually and on paper. Now the interbank payments take I day in
Biskhek and 5-6 days between regions; the number of erroneous payments has reduced; and increased operational
information on corresponding bank accounts, which allows funds to be used more efficiently, is now available.
U) improving the legal and regulatoryframework and prudential supervision of non-bankjfinancial institutions,
including the securities market. The State Commission on Securities (SCS) is the central regulatory (and
enforcement) body of state governance, which oversees the securities markets. its functions include examination of
securities issues and professional securities market participants with the object of enforcing compliance with
securities legislation and regulation. As part of the joint efiorts with USAID, ute Project strengthened ihe capacity
of this institution in regulation the activities of investment funds, the Kyrgyz Stock Exchange, the Central
Depository, and ouicr co-mpanies ucaiing with -ui secur,iies. In 1999 SCS had siA .-egiuoai uepadi.t.nw.
I iC rioject disU sLIeIIgLIIhIereU UIC capaci.y of1e U . eIw:y c.-eate NB4DF IJ[i UL.it iII IVIJ1F LU JurUIMU LIIt teN ls, i.e.,
insurance companies, private pension funds, lotteries, and casinos. Under the reform program, it was agreed that,
ur,til the sl-.e-:or bodies ca.,- --- l up ... 1,3..-Q  capci. to p--.A-ovd  -rde   -prison ovcr NBFuls,
Uit]Ll bVI~~I-IVrU14LU1y UVUU1b Lidl UUILU Up LLq 11"CbOa y %Lapa%,n LU IJIUVIUV JJIUU~.La L4JFupI VJIaUlI UV JaR I.1,
this function would be given to MOF on a temporary basis. Since then the NBFI Unit has been expanded. It
monitors aLv.i     T IS oU NBF loure c.plia.-.-.ce with Se exdis-Lng le-LWtion and. SUther. ir.provem.e.^t of the
enabling environment and regulative framework to develop NBFI services market. The Project also supported the
C+,., e- .V.Ars4on Agncy for ins..ronco osta-bisheA dt- ,ct ast tha --1al Qn-nn-.o- nf*h. GnA,chit, Tb n  wan s 
liquidated in 2000 and merged with the NBFI Unit in MOF.
4.2 Outputs by components:
lza) Strergthening the lega! and r,alo)ntonrv frnnwwrk and .the capabi!fu.;ec ofithe key,flnancinl and rPOIuln nrv
institutions. The Borrower cancelled TA planned to be funded by IDA for management of the overall reform
nrnorm I IATn FTNilnA 5ind TACr1 sCiqtPd the Rnrrnwer with imniementine the FINSAC reform nrnram
(e.g., USAID - accounting reform; USAID, FINIDA, TACIS - NBKR, financial legislation, banking sector,
short-term donor filn nd vnilhle thrrough MDA)
th)b, Avivting with the establishment of,a new temnnrarv debt revolution avenrv (DEBRA) that will effect the
restructuring/liquidation of major banks and recover, write-off, sell or restructure the non-performing loan
portfolio's of these hanks. NRKR cancelled the use of funds for the two foreign exnerts for bank restructuring and
liquidation as unnecessary. In early-1997 IDA sent, however, an advisor on donor funds to assist the Borrower with
AKB Kvrgvzstan: there were difficulties at that time with meeting the second tranche release conditions and with
management of the overall reformn program. The Project funded a foreign expert ($95,000) who assisted DEBRA
(and NBKR) for about half a year with setting up the operations and assisting with the sale of assets and
liquidation processes. The advisor worked with the local staff who received on-the-job training. The Credit funds
were also used to audit DEBRA's accounts ($ 10,000).
-6 -



(c) Implementing the legal and judicial reforms through improving the legal database and enhancing access to
legal information by the Government's agencies, and training ofjudges, lawyers and prosecutors.
(i) Parliamentarians' training ($16,000). This component consisted of providing training to 20 parliamentarians in
drafting legislation. Training was provided in 1997 - at the time when a great amount of financial legislation was
prepared. The seminars at that time helped the parliamentarians process the new legislation faster.
(ii) Establishment of the legal database in MOJ ($256,000). This component funded procurement and installment
of computer equipment, software, telecommunication equipment, local consultants and training to establish CLD
in MOJ. Implementation began in 1998 and was completed in May 2001. The State computer network was
connected to CLD in September 2001; it is available to the public through the Internet. MOJ intends to make the
database available also on CDs.
(iii) Improvement of Govemment's access to the legal database ($276,000). The subcomponent funded procurement
of computer equipment and software for the Prime Minister's office to extend the State computer network within
the Government administration.
(iv) Strengthening the judiciary ($102,000). The Judicial Training Center (JTC), established in 1998 by MOJ and
the Association of Judges, organized a massive judiciai training program between i998-2001: 69 seminars for
1,597 judges and 394 clerks in courts, including 14 seminars in oblasts, during 1998-2001. These seminars were
organized in Bishkek, except for two seminars organized in two obiasts. T-ne Credit was used to finance part of the
expenses for 22 seminars organized between October 1999 and end of 2000. In addition, JTC utilized the Credit to
procure ofnfce, telecommunication and computer equipment for the JTC and three courts in tne obiasts.
1.4) J-.h.-ing mto -',,,l,ih ia ,r-t.-a! RD-iefn,fOr Pilodves with rvg.in"nn nffrwov in vi- nhlacts The Rergistry ith
branch offices in five oblasts was established in MOJ in 1996. In 1997 the Registry bought the system hardware
and nfficep equinpmnt u,ndier the Prnipet tn eqtahlish a conmrputpr dathabae nfnipdoeq The ectahlisihment nf the
automated system was, however, delayed until 1999, because donor assistance with receiving the software needed
for the automnnatinn process dif not materialize. The Borrnwer and IDA decided to fund the software and an IT
consultant from the Credit. In 1999 the new software was bought and by end-2000 the registry had installed the
equinment (also in regions); the software. and nrovided training to its staff. The branch offices have a telephone
line connection to the central database in the registry, and they can exchange information via a telephone line
connection. Total disbursements under this component were $430,000.
(e) Improve the payments and clearing system in Bishkek and key regions. The Project funded procurement of
telecommunication equipment, software and project management costs for the automated clearing system ($I
million).
60 Improving the legal and regulatoryframework and prudential supervision of non-bankfinancial institutions,
including the securities market.
(i) State Commission on Securities (SCS) ($125,000). Significant part of the funds for this subcomponent were
used for computers, telecommunication equipment, software and office equipment for the Commission, its regional
divisions and representative offices. Office machinery and video tools were provided to the Training Center
established in 1999 to facilitate access and dissemination of information produced by SCS. The main objective was
to develop public knowledge on regulations, new financial products, related risks and benefits for enterprises and
operators. Funds were also used for long-term training and short-term seminars abroad for the Commission's staff.
Between 1999-2000 the Commission organized 5 seminars for a wide audience, both in Bishkek and two regions.
Training seminars were also delivered jointly with WBI. A total of 1,210 specialists participated in the
Commission's seminars on securities market.
(ii) State Supervision Agency for Insurance ($ 10,000). The Agency received funding for training of staff and
computer and telecommunication equipment.
(iii) NBFI Unit in the MOF ($88,000). The NBFI Unit in MOF received funding for computers, telecommunication
and office equipment and training of staff.
(iv) The Government reallocated the IDA funds intended for the foreign advisor for public debt instruments and
securities to other components. At one point, the MOF's NBFI Unit made plans for development of a motor-car
insurance under the Project funds, but this did not materialize.
-7 -



Strengthening of the Social Fund and State Tax Inspection (190,000). In accordance with the decree of the
Parliament, the Social Fund and the State Tax Inspection adopted a common identification number for tax payers
and payers of social security payments (both juridical and physical persons). The Project financed software, servers
and IT consultants for the Social Fund and, in addition, computer equipment for the State Tax Inspection (TACIS
had funded equipment for the Social Fund, while the Tax Inspection had to establish the whole system from the
very beginning with the Project funds). The system has been functioning since November 1999. The Social Fund
and State Tax Inspection have an online connection and can transfer data on ID numbers issued by each other
through the State electronic network. Districts, in the case of the Social Fund, and regions, in the case of the Tax
Inspection, send requests and receive information on the new numbers from their respective centers online. The
Project also supported the transfer of the Social Fund's accounts to accrual system based on IAS.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Tne Project's institutionai development impact is rated as substantial.
*   FINSAC and tne Project contributed to the establishment and operations of DEBRA, the Central Legal
Database in MOJ, the Central Registry of Pledges, the Judicial Training Center, the NBFI Unit in MOF, the
State Commission on Securities and State Supervision Agency for insurance.
*   Two largest banks were liquidated and two other banks were restructured, partly with the assistance of the
consuitar; flUnded bU Ly Lie Prije;.
*   Over 80% of the Credit was used to finance automation of systems/establishment of electronic networks, which
useU to bve n^.ar.ual/no0n 1 orCIncn111plete, sUcl11 as for .I.e rPrime Mivisiiter[ s adininistLratiun, the Cenirai
Legal Database in MOJ (extended to MOJ's justice departments in oblasts and accessible to courts), the
m3 lr c  yste..tm, LLrni0uaLI1 of pledgUe in t.he C`entrll PlVedg Regisy, UUu1IrgeioL  un.iUication ofl
the issuance of the ID number by the Social Fund and the State Tax Inspection, computerization of the
orrgan.-+;-7 -.-+;--.A ;        'M- Ts D-- A+ A*_A =.+_ AAe  ^''+^       "~v~^h~
wz.ass.5 u-.. o *hh.-...-nhts&-- .in  n. . . *-  . -J ift UiUULt. *L wa;3z wv%iLuI.1waLJuzI, usLLsL uI33CIIILILGIuI
information, automation of processes, etc.
*   20 p-iament-ria. received rir.n in 100! in f--anc.i li. n. This --oA +th -c ---- -A      o
-  **~~~***-**-.*          6 a...... .          b... .  *iI0 mnp.t ,...-*a F-.. alP. 4.jUanLY VI
law making.
*   All normative lpa I acts iseipd in the pto.ntrv, became 'a -esihlp to th.  --A -ancies connected to
the State computer network In addition, the normative legal acts are effective only once they are published in
the Central L .egnl DatabhsecP Thic hsc imnroved collPetion dictribuition of anA acPessihiliy to lega1
information.
*   A massive training of iudges and clerks in court in IQ9R-2fA00 - at the time when important legislation was
introduced - improved knowledge and understanding of judges and court officials of new legislation, although
minch remrins to he done in thiq arna.
*   Training for the new NBFI Unit in MOF, the State Commission on Securities and State Supervision Agency
for lnsurance he!ned managers and officers to get a better understAnding of regulations and best practires in
dealing with both domestic and foreign securities, managing risks and relevant regulations. Seminars
organized by the Commission helned imnrove knowledge and undtlrstgnding nf the developing ceu'rititec
market.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The regional financial crisis and a series of shocks in the summer of 1998 affected adversely development of the
financial system, leading to a banking sector crisis. Due to growing extemal debt, the Govemment cut the public
investments program financed mainly out of the extemally borrowed resources. This was one reason for slowing
-8 -



down of the Project implementation in 2000-2001. There were also some delays in the parliamentary approval of
some of the key legislation (the Law on Pledge) and subsequent delay in establishment of the Central Registry of
Pledges.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's commitment to the reform program was a critical factor in the satisfactory implementation of
FINSAC. The creation of the FINSAC Review Commission, consisting of the beneficiaries of the Project, improved
the planning and coordination of implementation of FINSAC and the Project among different ministries,
Government agencies and beneficiaries. After FINSAC, funds were used, at times, for sporadic procurement of
computers and training for beneficiaries involved in the Project without a program approach.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During the implementation of FINSAC, the Project benefited from the strong commitment of NBKR's senior staff.
TIhe PIU staff remained relatively stable throughout the implementation of FrNSAC and the Project, and this had a
positive impact on the Project implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
T ne disbursements under tne Credit totalled US$2.6 miljlon out of the Creait amount of US$3.4 mllion (thcre is
no full information available on the actual donor financing and Government counterpart funding). Due to
-- - *' ~ ~   -_ -" "  funin,       J2      -3- J.-2        lr'.:r,         .
avaiiaoility ofrdonor tunding,he U HvIrHlilU ian 14DORN UdUcided not to use th'e CreUditf fo consultaits' services.
Eight assignments designed to be funded by IDA were cancelled: senior advisor for NBKR, advisor on financial
ieglIiatl.io, reorgarization a'U vUiL LV NBO1rlX, 4UVI.UI *o AK1BL K MyIr gjzs,1 aSdU I ro1r1r,tibJank, auvisorL LV D
two NBFI advisors to MOF, advisor to MOF on public debt instruments and securities. After the closure of
L}w1 c A.   1 - ...-vA AIn '   -.-I   o  4---  fU-  -A r A *er  ssr  w A +   el  I  f;|l  r.  n D  D  A  c ronsul +-  _;r 
r4lor1. kvIIU-L 7711, LULaI U10aUu,0S11WLa fILIVI %11t ..Ufl aIcnutznet.u 1f .1. IIISILIVI  -.Ll}fl %.SJ5SO , *L.--raling
for parliamentarians, NBKR's automated clearing system). Thereafter, the FINSAC Review Commission made
locions. from ti..e 'o tirme betv..een the Project acti,vities (they did no q require 0n amendmnents), e.g, for the
judicial reform, the Central Registry of Pledges, the NBFI Unit in MOF, the State Commission on Securities and
Lhe State Supervision A -ncy for Tne-n'na Tho final m.vi,rn of TA inutt himrnneA out ifferentlu frnm the
appraisal estimates: over 80% of the Credit funds were used for hardware, software, telecommunication equipment
in comparison to A4% butisdget  for these ppnmoses at appraisal.
Some delay took place in approval by the Parliament of the Law on Pledge, which- in him- delayed establishment
of the Central Pledge Registry. Implementation of the automated registration of pledges was delayed because the
promised donor assistance with nroviding database software to computerize the system procured under the Project
funds did not materialize. After a I-year delay, the software was purchased under the Credit funds. The table below
describes the planned and actual cumulative disbursements in FY97-FY02:
USD            FY97   FY98    FY99   FY00    FY01   FY02
Cumulative     planned         700   2,389  3,299   3,399  -       -
actual          835   1,511   1,750  2,051   2,510  2,610
Annual         actual          835     676    239     301    459     100
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project's sustainability is likely. Some measures taken with the Project's assistance (bank liquidation)
are irreversible. With many of the advisory services not procured, there cannot be a question on
sustainability. With regards to maintaining institutions supported by the Project, DEBRA was meant to be
a temporary agency, while other institutions supported (the Central Registry for Pledges, SCS, State
Supervision Agency for Insurance, NBFI Unit in the MOF, Judicial Training Center) or systems automated
continue to operate under State funding and/or on self-financing basis. The Government's commitment to
reform, including improvements in governance, public administration and public service reforn over the
next few years will address the need for judicial training and improvements in enforcement of laws and
regulations and help sustain and improve achievements.
-9-



6.2 Transition arrangement to regulur operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
71I,,  ..A;H...
IDA's performance in the lending phase was highly satisfactory. The Project was consistent with both the
Governmnent's development priorities and with *he CAS dAt.ed from 1995 and 1998. FINSAC was nrpnared
thoroughly on the basis of "background notes" written by the Government and IDA. The proposed financial sector
-t     - q  TAP requirempntc were dikpussed with MO   n             workshnn in Waqhinotnn Df.. in
October 1995. IDA and the Borrower continued to refine TA needs and discuss their financing during
pre-appraisa! in fDercmhbr 1095 apnnraisa in Marrh 9QQ6 qnd ingnentikntinn in line 1996 Tn enqmmre sufficient
implementation capacity and to avoid overlap in funding TA needs, IDA assisted the Borrower with organization
of two donor ronferen-es to present TAP and to raise findS for it IDlA cnlbhnrated with donors during the
preparation and early implementation of FINSAC and coordinated their activities with FINSAC. Cooperation
between IDA and the Rorrower was good.
The design of the Proiect was flexible to accommodate the Borrower's evolving needs and priorities, as it allowed
the Borrower to reallocate funds between different priority activities identified in the Project without amendments
to the Proiect's legal agreements. The original performance indicators were fairly extensive (they were related to
FINSAC conditionalities). Two key risks were identified in the project implementation, but one of them
(replacement of expats) became irrelevant as the Borrower decided to cancel hiring of international experts. During
preparation of the Project, financial management/procurement capacity assessments were not common, and their
lack seemed not to be concerning because of IDA's good implementation experience in the country. IDA had
obtained the Borrower's commitment for the Project objectives, but overestimated the Borrower's incentives to
borrow for TA.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA's supervision performance is rated as satisfactory. A few years ago QAG Rapid Supervision Assessment
evaluated supervision under this project as satisfactory with high focus on development impact.
The original decision to make the Project flexible, difficulties in finding foreign experts in early stages and
NBRK's decision not to fund them under the Credit during FINSAC implementation made the Project highly
supervision intensive. Besides the Resident Mission staff, the headquarter staff provided considerable substantive
and technical support to the Government, both through advice on sectoral strategies and specific project
implementation issues. Until mid-2000 the staff supervised the Project closely and responded to the Borrower's
requests for financing new needs in a flexible and timely manner (expansion of the judicial reform component).
During early implementation years, IDA, the Borrower, NBKR and donors also worked successfully together (e.g.,
coordination of TORs with the FINSAC reform program for drafting new legislation). After the completion of
FINSAC, IDA had less in-depth policy dialogue through the Project supervision, especially, in the area of
non-bank financial institutions and securities markets which were to be the major focus after FINSAC's
completion. During the period between mid-2000 and end-2001, the staff focused more attention to larger banking
sector issues (Kairat Bank, Settlement and Savings Company). In the end of 2000 IDA proposed cancellation of the
Credit because all the significant Project activities had been completed and because of low expectations on the use
of the remaining funds. The Project was not cancelled at the Government's request, but the planning of new
activities was halted.
IDA conducted an adequate number of supervision missions per year (about 2) throughout the Project life. The
quantity, skill mixture and continuity of IDA staff (task team leader) was satisfactory. The Resident Mission staff,
which served an important role in responding to technical implementation questions in coordination with the
headquarters, remained the same throughout the Project. In 2001 the task team leadership was delegated to the
Resident Mission, but this did not reduce coordination of clearances with the HQ. Mission reports on the project
- 10-



implementation progress were adequate on the average. Somewhat incomplete procurement documentation in the
headquarters suggests that filing was not coordinated between the Resident Mission and headquarters. The fact that
IDA reminded the Borrower of the audit requirement for the first time in mid-2000 suggests that this area had not
been monitored closely.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is rated highly satisfactory. The Borrower took active part in designing
TAP, including the Project, and initiated two donor conferences to raise funds for it. The Government's
cooperation with IDA was effective and constructive, and it was highly committed to the reform program. NBKR's
management, in particular, showed great deternination and leadership in preparation of the refonn program. The
other beneficiaries were not involved during the preparation stage.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. I ne Government was committed to the
reform. In the early years a slow pace of legislative and institutional changes regarding some conditionalities (e.g.,
the Law on Pledge, creation of the Centrai Pledge Registry) threatened to jeopardize the rIN SAC second trancne
release scheduled for June 1997 and had an impact on commencement of the institutional assistance under the
Project. As the Government preferred to use tne availabie grant runding for the pianned consultants' assignments
for strategic reasons, the project refocused to finance more the training and equipment needs of the institutions
supported under the Project.
7.6 IrnplementingAgency:
NBKR's performance in preparation and implementation is rated satisfactory. NBKR's senior management was
.L. rrLC' A,- ---  .. ii.....,...       L.DD --A. TrA ..... ,.- ---A X1DVD -dd.dq,-A t1.-
corI-ir.iId Lt te he r'tot tl-   plurIiI, -41acU Wleion  Uetwn N B%Jrx ainU LDA was goou. NB4m   estzblise  -h
NKBR Monitoring Unit (PIU) promptly, and it was already operating in the fall of 1996. The Unit performed its
ilLy fuo day-to-uay ,u,1r.1.nage..hnt -f th. -Ject .a.f...a..... (including j,&,.nent and cas,
reporting and auditing, although the latter two responsibilities belonged originally to PMU in MOF which executed
+sus   s g *e the I T pct --   ea,  y  (  TA -s dA-sigPA fnr the T Tnit IDlA worked
closely with it in preparation of TORs, etc. The continuity of staff in NBKR unit had a positive impact on the
implementation. The Project was aui,ditpei twi,-P incliudrling thp firet aigtt fnr the nprmnd of Spntember 1 996-!ine
2000 and the second audit for the period of July 2000-December 2001. The first audit was delayed because of
oversight of thp aidit reqn ir,emPnt NBRIR nrnvided the audit renort nrnmntlv after heinv reminded of this
requirement by IDA.
7.7 Overall Borrower performan7ce:
8. Lesn Leji,.  arnaed
* Strong and continued Borrower's commitment to the Project objectives during preparation and implementation
are critical to successful implementation of TA projects. The Borrower's commitment should also be obtained
to using the Credit funds for financing TA if the Credit is made available.
*   It is valuable to coordinate the Bank supported reform agenda with the content and timing of donor assistance.
ideally, donor coordination should be maintained throughout the project impiementation.
*   PIU plays a key role in the success of the project. PIU's financial management and procurement&reporting
capacity should be reviewed and strengthened during preparation of the Project so that the PiU can begin
implementation immediately after effectiveness.
*   if an implementation support TA project continues after compietion of the reiated adjustment operation, the
Bank and the Borrower should continue the dialogue on the sector developments and monitor that the former
- 1 1 -



funds will be used efficiently to continue the support, to sustain the outcomes of the reform agenda and to
respond to new development needs.
*   TA loans should be flexible (e.g., funding could be indicated in the legal agreement not by components, but by
disbursement categories).
*   Continuity of project management - both in IDA and the Borrower's agencies - leads to better implementation
results in an otherwise changing environment.
*   TA projects are supervision intensive, and this needs to be taken into consideration in budget planning and
staffs workplans.
9. Partner Comments
(a)I Borrower/i,.plm::f. agr.
Kvrgvz ReDublic Financial Sector Technical Assistance
(FinSAC TA, #2891-KG)
Proiect Completion Report
Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic
I. Project Background and Objective
The Kyrgyz Republic Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FinSAC TA, #2891-KG) was the
necessary extension of the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FinSAC). The Loan Agreement on the FinSAC
TA #2891-KG project was approved by the KR President's Decree #252 of August 19, 1996. Closing date of
the Project is December 31, 2001. The total amount of credit disbursed is SDR 2 400 000. Following are the
Project objectives:
-   strengthening the capabilities of the key financial and regulatory institutions;
-   assisting in the establishment of the new, temporary institutions that will effect the
restructuring/liquidation of major banks;
-   extending the new accounting infrastructure; and
-   training bank and judicial system personnel.
II. Implementation and Accomplishments of the Project
For the purpose of implementation of the Project, a Special State Commission has been established to ensure
structural adjustment of the financial sector. The Commission was headed by the Prime-minister of the Kyrgyz
Republic. This Commission supervised overaii implementation of the project as well as the reallocation of
credit funds among the project implementing agencies. The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic has been the
Borrower to the Project through the Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic. The National Bank of the
Kyrgyz Republic has been the executive agency. The following have been implementing agencies under the
Project: Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic, Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA), State Commission for
the Securities Markets under the Govemment of the Kyrgyz Republic, Social Fund of the Kyrgyz Republic,
Ministry of justice of the Kyrgyz Republic, Centrai Pledge Registration Office under the Ministry of justice of
the Kyrgyz Republic, Judicial Training Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Legal Information System Component
The KR President's Decree #285 of October 17, 1997 approved the Concept of Legal Information Development
in the Kyrgyz Republic. inis program envisaged the integration and classification of legal iniormation
resources of both the legislative and law enforcement areas of activity of state structures. This program has
been fully implementeu in -he area of esLwiisiung local legal iniuionauuii systems wiuin Ihn  rresiueni's
office, Jogorku Kenesh, Govemment, Ministry of Justice and Judicial Department of the Kyrgyz Republic. It
hdas been accorpId lsnilp-i U I UlrUUgIl L,IC prU4oUICuICIL Ud IIIhUCII1 ild-luwarc, suitw-air anU Lilmcou111111Ul1icailUn
equipment, enabling access to the Internet, provision of technical expertise and consulting services. The
- 12 -



central legal database has been established under the Ministry of Justice and is now connected to all of the
branches of the government. Currently the legal database (and the hardcopy library) includes over 19,000
normative legal acts of the Kyrgyz Republic in Russian (laws, decrees, resolutions, agreements, contracts and
departmental legal acts approved since 1990 and registered with the Ministry of Justice). According to the KR
presidential decree #56 of February 10, 2001, all laws should be transmitted electronically to the Ministry of
Justice for inputting to the central legal database. According to the presidential decree, laws become officially
effective upon publication in the computer network.The Ministry of Justice is also planning to make the legal
database available in Kyrgyz and distribute them on CDs. In addition, the credit funds have been used to
conduct a massive training of judges and clerks in courts for the purpose of better understanding of the newly
enacted laws. Tne judicial Training Center of the Kyrgyz Republic has been established in 1998 to conduct
training. During 1998-2001 the JTC organized a total of 69 seminars for 1,597 judges and 394 clerks in
courts. Teiecommunication and computer equipment for the judicial Training Center has been purchased to
connect it to the central database.
Establishment of the Unified ID Number Component
At the beginning of implementation of this component there were two independent systems in the Kyrgyz
Q_    ..1-:-  .L  _ I .L ,.-   V.-   1:__J   I1__:s __   01.L  jr  _-   I._s " --. 
RIeUbUlc - tIIh  Soil FUnud anud hLeSt ate TA inspet1i1U  - i-puz"ibieul fur the uigital iucntification of legal
entities and physical persons. There was no single body responsible for the issue of unified ID numbers for the
-.-egis.a:ion of tax payers andu payCrs vf socIaL suCCUILy aiivctioini (ubth igai eHiLt esIU adilyicLai peIbUiso).
The objective of this component was to switch to a unified system of identification for tax payers and payers of
soa.security payn-.ents by the State Tzx Ins pec.tionha un .. MiLa.nistry of Finantc ain uiu SoULc.at r-UAIU VI LIth
Kyrgyz Republic. It was also proposed to establish connection between the computing center of the State Tax
Incrp.tinn iunApr th_ Minietr nf 17^^ and the Inform-ation           ofDe ent of the S-ial Fund1 of the
Kyrgyz Republic, transfer data on ID numbers and elaborate unified procedures for the issue of ID numbers.
Equipment for the Social Fund and the State Tax lnspection of the K.,gyz Republic ha been proced under
this component, and new programs have been developed with a view to create a unified data base, process tax
inspertion's interf_ce snreakdhppts fnr identifiw2tinn and issue of new TD nitbhprc At nrecsnt, the Snoia P--nd
and State Tax Inspection have a direct online connection to share each other's database information. The
system has been nut in nlace and is oneratinna! since Nnvemher 1999 Thus, the Sncinl Fu nd of the KyrC,yz
Republic implements identification of all citizens eligible for social insurance. The State Tax Inspectorate is in
turn responsible for the sharing of information about legal entities (enternrises)i and physical persons
(taxpayers) who are not covered with the Social Fund system.
Automated Pledge Registry Component
Given the importance of authentic and timely information on pledges in the Republic and its importance for
potential creditors, the centralized computer-based system of registration of pledges has been established by
the Central Pledge Registration Office (CPRO). The centralized state registry comprises a central and several
local information networks to provide physical persons and legal entities with the maximum fast access to the
informnation resources of this automated information network. Main objective of the CPRO is to establish the
automated information system for all-round automation of operational procedures that enable operation of the
central database (registration of pledges, update and adjustment of information in the database, registration,
search and distribution of information among all interested physical persons and legal entities). Credit funds
have been used to procure software applications and computer equipment, conduct training for a technical
specialist, hire a specialist to operate the database for successful accomplishment of the aforesaid goals and
objectives.
Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA) Component
The Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA) has been established in 1996 under the Financial Sector Reform
program. DEBRA was created to perform collection of non-performing assets of troubled banks and financial
institutions. The objective of its performance is the liquidation, temporary closing-down, and reorganization of
commercial banks and financial institutions, as well as to restructure and recover their debts. The specialist
- 13 -



hir^ed for this nomponent wqs rePnnnsihIe for arsistance with the estAhliqhment of the Agencrv settincg-u
operational procedures, assistance with the sale of assets and liquidation processes.
State Commission on Securities under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
The State Commission on Securities (SCS) is the only government body to pursue the unified state policy in
the securities market and supervise and regulate activities of security issuers as well as professional securities
market participants, investors, shareholders and depositors. This component was to use credit funds for
procurement of computers, telecommunication equipment, software, office and training equipment; conduct
training for the SCS staff; hold seminars. A unified computer network has been created under the SCS after
the installation of new computer and telecommunication equipment. Currently the SCS is capable of
exercising remote access to the Kyrgyz Stock Exchange with the use of cutting-edge Internet technology. This
helps ensure strict on-line monitoring of the securities trading process. Specifically designed software
applications allow to control, maintain records and monitor securities. The credit funds have also been used to
procure equipment and conduct seminars for the Training and Information Center under the SCS. So far, a
total of 1,210 specialists from all over the regions of the Republic participated in these seminars over the entire
period of implementation of the Project.
Non-bank Financial Institutions Component
State Supervision Azencv for Insurance. Upon demonopolizing the insurance, the market of insurance services
was overwhelmed by a variety of new entrants, which required the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to take
adequate measures. As a result, on December 18, 1991, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic approved the
Law on Insurance in the Kyrgyz Republic and made the State Insurance Supervisory Agency (SISA)
responsible for the related issues. In the market economy, increasing number of insurance companies and lack
of trained personnel and adequate equipment required of the SISA to provide financial assistance in the said
areas. This need has been satisfied through the financing of training for the SISA staff in the World Bank
institutes, as weil as the procurement of computer and telecommunications equipment. Upon its liquidation,
functions of the Agency have been transferred to the Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Ministry of Finance Unit for Non-bank Financial Institutions. The Unit for Non-bank Financial Institutions
qtne r4NBI Unit) nas been esiaoiisnea becausu o1 mne neea ior Lne ueveiopment of efficient dalaogue witn
non-bank financial institutions, as well as the requirement of control over their activities. In addition, pension
lilthxU required' rnobili;zaion of' mnediurn ariud lorig--er,ml Investmlent. 'eXL M-uica: ass-istance i'-rm bUO'Utihe public
and private sectors was required for the successful implementation of efficient system of supervision,
monito ing and evalumation or suchu non-baankk insti-i:ions, as investrl-el ud  ll rsrlc companlies. Im e
110LIA.JIL  411r   VVIO IUI  1~~4  JL~4J  J*ILULIVJIM, 4U. 111 ;;I~IL 1U11Ua a11U  1IIIU141ILV I,U11  lp.I1C. LIIC
objectives have been accomplished through the use of credit funds to finance adequate training of this unit's
peorlonntel, 0s we I as theL JUA %VIO L.- VWI  ...  U5.' kV _.L4.UIU  t '  PIILV l  UIV.U WIJImI%L VI
Internet access services. These measures helped successful implementation of the policy of supervision of
non=bar.-. fir.anciall institatli.ons.
A utorm ated Clear.'r.g System. Ca.m.pto..u- u
The NBKTR isiedI the rredit fiundsi to finanne the tele rInnimmni,tinn eqnilpent s.nflrare ar.A nrnioet
management costs with a view to ensure the speed-up of the inter-bank payment clearing transactions. The
automated rlearina svystem i lncated in the citv RBihkek (main !riea  e^enterl anti reionne (reginu,al pan.ng
offices). With the new system it takes one day within Bishkek and 5-6 days between regions to clear payments
between hnnks. Other positive outcomes include the reduced nunmber nf errnnenu payme.nts Thus, equ pnent
purchased under this component helps improve and develop the payment system of the Kyrgyz Republic.
- 14 -



Bank Performance
The World Bank proved flexible enough in implementation of the project. Regular visits of the World Bank
missions helped ensure strict control and good understanding of the goals and objectives of the Project. All
problems that have been faced in the process of implementation of this Project have been resolved successfully
mainly due to the understanding of World Bank management and staff. The World Bank provided support in
the settlement of all issues ansen over the entire period of implementation of the Project.
Outcome
Given poor institutional capacity of the Republic in implementation of the financial sector reform, the Kyrgyz
Republic Financiai Sector Technical Assistance Project (FinSAC TA) has 'oeen deemed a necessary extension
of the Financial Sector Reform program. Much has been done under the FinSAC TA project. The goal set have
unider the project have been acc-omp;ished.
(b) Cofinanciers:
/,c fltAor parn:ers fAIG(s.priva.te sc.nor):
10. Additional Information
The BTO on the supervision/ICR mission dated from December 7, 2001.
- 15 -



Annex ;. KM.ey Prerformance inuicators,Lug rrame ivLatrix
Output indicator                              Actual
I                             _ w..   Vt I .,W J   r L  , A   IA   OAt '31 L) - l,-, flJJal  laaL   A Lt'...ws enacted under FD.....A. 
D1,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~., ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  IA  +,411a,an*oAAThr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enw  a  nCak'ndBni
Pledge, new Insolvency Legislation and revised  including the new Law on Banks and Banking Activities,
Tax Code. Subatission to P!i mo_ent of new Laws '*e ne Xo., -_ on "PI!edge" t-h ne.v Bar.krvt  lorncla-inn
on Insurance Companies, Investment Funds and  nd amendments to the Tax Code, the new Law on
onI Leasing.                                 "!Ifnsurar.ce Activities"; theP newU  flf awonlrvPCtTilP?t l1Funds"
Lleasing legislation improved through changes in Civil Law.
Pxeduct.-+ion, bIy rTD A in s-ff levels aiAd sale or  N,4-*   s.dn.A t- e h,nlA,,ao *_n,..fo,.eA t+o LheMOF omn.e
ure.l3      ttOlh  LV.OStbranches      v.JL.tJtt  (lt  tls*Jt~ttt*  t..as ...i.ts   to  _4t  1.10 It
closure of branches of Agroprombank and Elbank; [sold or given on lease. Transferred assets of Agroprombank
classifing t.he nonmerfa  ing loans under its  IA E!a.kn In roDER A hu Tinmp I QOO9 ar. 1uniirlntp
control, and recovering, writing off, selling or  Completed the classification by June 1997. Between 1996-enc
nestrriehtrina thieps !nans                  b0nI the hbad Jnnns nf I s hqnls have bepn trancferrPd tn
:.                                ~~~~~~~~~DEBRA.
nof a Centra! n.ot-t, for Pdges wifh  l.ish.e inSternr ! 9' ha now 5 rPrnn,nal offics
regional offices in six oblasts.              The automated registration of pledges operational in the end
of 2000 in the Central Reri.trv and its S rcainnnl offices.
Improvement of the payment and clearing system.  The interbank payments take now I day in Bishkek and 5-6
lfun,,e hst-so  rpffninn rnm"ne tsrtn  el ,bc -r.th.n a ron.;nn nam
L>y  --..ve-regions co. rnpared to 2day ;J i ---- eg>ion ar.d
up to 14 days between regions at appraisal; the number of
erroneous navrnentt has redirced; and increased nnerltnnal
information on corresponding banking accounts, which
illow funds to he iLued more efficientlv is nnw available.
Enhancement of the legal and regulatory framework lProvided support (equipment, hardware, software, training)
.nrd nnidentinl sinprvisinn nf nnn-hank financial  tn institntinns sciih as the State Canmmissinn nn Recnritie I
institutions.                                 State Supervision Agency for Insurance, NBFI Unit in the
IMOF.
Strengthening of the judiciary through training of tFinanced part of the massive training of judges: 69 seminars 1
i jidges and imprnvina the legal infnrmatinn  Ifnr 1 Q7 iIi0dges and 394 clerks in cniirts incliding, 14
systems.                                     seminars in oblasts. Established a legal database in the
I                                             i-MOIJ including 19.000 normative legal acts in 2001.
|Operating since May 2001. Accessible to State agencies
I                                             Jconnected to the State computer network.
- 16 -



Annex 2. Proiect Costs and Financing
Prniort Cost hv (Cnmnonpnt (in TTCC millinn rniiv2lpntt)
[ I                                     -     -     1- CppLs      -;:-| Actuail_atest  Perntageof 
| .- :Rroject'>tB;Cot       mp    ont     -            US- million -| US$ mllion 
i. uveraii Refonn of the rinanciai Sector                 0.16            0.00                0
(a) Senior Advisor to the NBK
(b) Financial Legislation
2. Bank Restructuring and Liquidation                     0.17             0.00               0
(a) Reorganization Advisor to the NBK
(b) Advisor to the AKB Kvrg and Prom'stroi
3. Debt Recovery and Resolution                           0.57             0.11              19
IaAst - Q.5-at1s -and Lu aSton S alistI
(b) Loan Workout Specialist
f-, AUL 01 JJEDI_JV  A dI.Wi
I (c) tAudii VI MDEBi's acco-uritsIIII
4. Training (legal and judicial reforms)                  0.12             0.65             542
(a) Legal Infonnation System (CLD)
(b) Improvement of State Access
(c) Judicial Training
(d) Parliamentarians' training
5. Central Registry for Pledges                           0.35             0.43             122
6. Payment and Clnearing Sys'.evm Redesign                 .00             1.00              00 
7. Non-Bank Financial Institutions                        0.12             0.23             192
ta) investment runIUs adIU
(b) Insurance Services
(c) State Commission on Secunties
(d) State Supervision Agency for Insurance
(e) NBFI Unit in MOFIMOF
18. Public Debt Instruments and Securities                 0.10            0.00
9. Social Fund and State Tax Inspection                   0.00             0.19
PPF rPfinanfcing,                                   1     0.70
Total Baseline Cost                                 |     3.29    |        2.61
Price Contingencies                                      0.11
Total Project Costs                 3.40             2.61 
uToa; rinancing Require                   3.0u.6
Note: The project cost includes only activities planned to be financed by IDA. There is no information available on the amount
of actual donor financing or Govemment counterpart funding for the planned activities.
Actuals by sub-component: 3 (a)(b) $0.095 mn, (c) $0.010 mn; 4 (a) $0.256 mn, (b) $0.276 mn, (c) $0.102 mn, (d) 0.016 mn;
7 c0.) IS0.25m..n, (d)AJ ,nI $0 10 % (e S0.089 ..
-17-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
[ -:ExpenIture~Catgory -          curoement Metothr                   1
- t   "  7   !  n   7  > ~ t i i _ . ^ . o1 2- N:B.F.-                      -  -| Total Cost
11. Works                      0.00     I    0.00     I    0.00    [     0.00         0.00
I G                           (0.00)        (0-00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
12. Goods                l      o 00    l        on I0 1.53)             0I ('.53)
(0     0.00)  (°)(1.53)             1    0.00)    1    1.53)
3. Services                   0.00           0.0            .i7         0.00          i.i7
__________________I _________    _________         1-17'        (0_______I     17
(0.00)        (0.00)        ( 1.     L    (0.00)       (1.17)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
I______________________ I     (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00          0.70         0.00          0.70
(I AA0        (0. AA        (0. 70A\     (A .0         (0.A7A
_______ _______ _______ _______.VJ J) J  k U.V VJ  k .1           W )kV V J  f V
6. Miscellaneous         i     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(U.UU)        (U.U0)        (U.0U)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       0.00          0.00          3.40          0.00         3.40
1 _______________________ j   (0.00)    1   (0.00)    j   (3.40)   1    (0.00)       (3.40)
The procurement plan was made only for activities planned to be funded by IDA ($3.4 mn).
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
|-. -Ependitr CaWo -1~  --C-B;-P;-  cure e-nt ,Meth:         N o-
P.      Cgory.           ICB;                                    MB--R Pert  -   -  Totalost. -co
|1. Works                | - I  0.0                        0.00         0.00         0.00
I _    _     _      _      _     _          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
12 Gnods                 l     0.00          0.00         2.25          0.00         2.25
________________________ I    (0.00)    I   (0.00)        (2.25)       (0.00)        (2.25)
S. oervices                    0.            0.00         0.27          0.00         0.27
(0.00)        (0.00)   1    (0.27)       (0.00)   J   (0.27)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.09          0.00         0.09
I  I  f(0.00)      (0o0rn   I    0 o09)       (nnn         (0 M09
5. Miscellaneous              0.00     |    000           0.00    |     000     |    000
________________________ |    (0.00)       k(.00)    1    (.0v)        k (0.00)  1  (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous         I     0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
I                        1    (0.00)   [    (0.00)        (0.00)   1   (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       0.00     |    0.00    |    2.61     I    0.00         2.61
(0.00)   [    (0.00)   1    (2.61)  1    (0.00)   [   (2.61)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured throttgh national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted stafi
ofL .he project rnanagemer,,t office, training, .Lechica; assistance services, anu incremenia; operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 18 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component       [    - Appral Estim, te         -    Actualate         a e     -           o          l
|__-_'  __-_-_-__:_|      Bank. -I   Govt.  |   CoF.    - IDA        GovL       CoF. : |ank     GOv - I CoF.
1. Overall refiorm ofthe   0.16      0.01   I   0.00       0.00                        I 0.0     0.0     0.0
Financial Sector                                                                                      I
2. Bank Restructuring and  0.17      0.01       0.00       0.00                           0.0    0.0   : 0.0
Liquidation
3. Debt Recovery and       0.57       0.03      0.00       0.11                           19.3   0.0     0.0
Resolution                                             I
4. Training (legal and     0.12       0.01      0.84       0.65              I j         541.7   0.0     0.0
judicial reforms)
5. Central Registrv for    0.35      0.02       0.00       0.43                          122.9   0.0     0.0
riedges                           i
6. Payment and Clearing    1.00      0.00       1.97       1.00                          100.0   0.0     0.0
System
7. NBFI                    0.12      0.01       0.36       0.23                          191.7   0.0     0.0
-8. Public Debt Instruments  0.10    0.01       0.00       0.00                           0.0    0.0     0.0
and
Securiiies                                  |             . 
9. Social Fund and State   0.00      0.00       0.00       0.19              j            0.0    0.0     0.0
|14/l5. Contingencies/ PPF | 0.81     0.00       0.00                                     0.0     0.0     0.0
.a.cirg
Note: This table contains only the IDA-funded components, as well as planned donor funding. It excludes those activities of the
TAP not funded by iDA.
There is no information available on the amount of actual donor and Government financing.
A new subcomponent as of i998.
19-



Annex 3n       efjjP.  t a  Bene.:
Not applicable.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation  Development
Month/Year   | Count            Specialty                   |   Progress      Objective
7/1995                        2    Economist
3 Cnmmerrin! hankerm
I    Bank supervisor
I    Payments system specialist
I    Bank restructuring specialist
I    NBFIlCapital markets specialist
Central banking specialist
I    Lawyer
12/1995                       1    Economist
3    Commercial bankers
I    Bank supervisor
I    Debt resolution specialist
I    Banker training specialist
l                   l           ~~~~~~~~~~I Operations officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/1996            I           I    Economist
2 |Commercial bankers
D ebt management specialist
l                  l           ]   | ~~~~~      ~~Lawyer|
CI Iapital markets/NBFI
I    specialist
Supervision                               .i     peraxions oicer
10/1996                       1   Task team leader              |      S              S
I |ommercial banker
I  Operations officer
2/1997                         11  Economist                            S             S
I   Commercial banker
I   Debt management specialist
I l Privatization specialist
I   Operationsofficer
|7/1997                        1   Economist
I |Commercial banker
I   Operations officer
1   Privization sp ecialist
10/1997           |           I    Economist
I   FCommercial banker
I   Operations officer
2/1998                  1      1   Task team leader                     s S    |      S
l                   l           ~~~~~~~~~~I Operations officer
1        ~~~11/1998         |                Economist
l                   l           ~~~~~~~~~~I |FMS/Financial sector specialist|
f                   l           ~~~~~~~~~~I |Operations officer
2/1999            |            I   Economist                            S            HS
- 21 -



I I ! I Comm..ea! banker .                   I
2 FMS/Financial sector specialist
!   Operations officer 
11/1999                      J   Economist                          S             HS
!   FM/iaca sector cnpecit is
I   Operations officer
5/ 20- 0I                         ,S-tna                            S             S
I   Principal economist
! FSFinancia!leco specialist
I Operations officer
1/2000                       1   Financial    specialist
I                 I            J I Nn~~~~~~~~~~PrinnneE aff1rPr   I          I
I | Operations officer
!!R 6/200!                       Financial specialist
ICR
11/2001                      2    Operations AnalystlOtticer        S             S
Note: No PSR available on supervision missions made in 7/1997, 10/1997, 11/1998, 1/2001.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle  f                 Actual/Latest Estimate
I1                                   No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                  12
ICR                                                                    13
Tota;i                                                                350          1
Note: Costs for Identification/Preparation included in the budget for FINSAC. The current MIS does not provide
informnation on tne SWs.
-22 -



A nnexw 5. atinns for Achieverment of OkJectiflutnuIt of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                      O H  * SU O M    ON   O NA
O Physical                              O H  O SU * M    O N  O NA
O Financial                             O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
F Institutional Develonment             C) H  0 SU C) M  C) N  0 NA
O Environmental                         O H  OSUOM       O N  *NA
Social
O Pniwyh, RAuc.n                  C H  C SU C M    O N  * NA
O Gender                          O H  OSUOM      ON    * NA
FO O   (n.Lher  ee) O,...UZdr) i n en           Al   AJ O  * AlA
C Private sector development            0 H  O SUO M     0 N  0 NA
FlI fl-Ll!                              --  y &Ar  ri CI I   (x   kI'  IAf
Puuic se-cur munugemeni      O          11 U JH \, I \. SU OV MJ OA
O Other (Please specify)                0 H  O SU O M    0 N  * NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(S=14iahlk Qatiefort, S=Satisfactnrv I 1=1 1nticfhrtnrv 141i I=Nihhlv TI nstisfotnrv')
6 IRanntr nPrformncr                                 Rnting
f   ending                                             HS O S        IU  O HU
FI Supervision                                      OHS OS        O U   O HU
O   )vprall                                         C) HS * S     O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
OII Preparation                                     OHS OS        O U   O HU
Eli Government implementation performance            0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S     O U   O HU
Ol Overall                                          OHS OS        OU    O HU
- 24 -



Annoy 7 1 iet nf Riunnnrtinc flnnenmonte
BTO on the supervision/ICR mission carried out in November 2001.
- 25 -









l   --fiff-  ~y- -')
R eponrNo.:            24187 I .
i    'Type:    ICR
K _ _ _             _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _ _



