Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2891 KG
                    Development Credit Agreement
           (Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project)
                               between
                           KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated July 3, 1996
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2891 KG
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1996, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated May 24, 1996,
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
financial sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and the
Association has agreed to provide such assistance in support of the
Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the Financial
Structural Adjustment Credit Agreement); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
            wise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country which
            is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
            services supplied from such territories; or (b) for the
            purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for
            any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
            knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision
            of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "FMU" means the FINSAC Monitoring Unit established within
the NBKR;
      (b)   "NBKR" means the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic;
      (c)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated March 6, 1996 and April 3, 1996 between
the Borrower and the Association; and
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself  the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon
be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15,
2006 and ending January 15, 2031. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 15, 2016 shall be one and one-fourth
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that,
in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Page  4
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain the FMU with a
sufficient number of qualified staff, adequate facilities, and terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Association.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
           (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six (6) months after
                  the end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
                  and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
           (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association
Page  5
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                  this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                  and internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
a situation has arisen which would make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE VI
                             Termination
       Section 6.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            58, Erkindik Avenue
            Bishkek 720874
            Kyrgyz Republic
                                                  Telex:
                                                  245-156 NUR KH
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                        Telex:
                  INDEVAS                         197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA),
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                   82987 (FTCC)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
Page  6
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Almas T. Chukin
                                          Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                              SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods                       1,080,000         100 % of foreign
                                                  expenditures, 100%
                                                  of local expend-
                                                  itures (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 95%
                                                  of local expend-
                                                  itures for other
                                                  items procured
                                                  locally
(2) Consultants' Services         820,000         100%
(3) Refunding of Project          500,000         Amounts due
    Preparation Advance                           pursuant to
                                                  Section 2.02 (c)
                                                  of this Agreement
                                _________
        TOTAL                   2,400,000
                                =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
Page  7
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expendi-
tures for goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent;
and (b) contracts for the employment of consultants costing less than
$100,000 equivalent, in case of firms, and $50,000 equivalent, in case
of individuals, each under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to facilitate the implementation
of the policy and institutional reforms envisaged under the Program by:
(i) strengthening the capabilities of the Borrower's financial and
regulatory institutions; (ii) assisting the Borrower in the establish-
ment of new institutions for the restructuring of major banks; (iii)
extending the new accounting infrastructure; and (iv) training bank
personnel.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Financial Reform
      Provision of technical assistance to the NBKR to: (i) implement
the policy and institutional reform envisaged under the Program; (ii)
implement bank reorganization and branch rationalization; (iii) improve
the payment and clearing systems; and (iv) draft financial laws and
regulations.
Part B:    Bank Restructuring
      Provision of technical assistance to enhance: (i) the ability of
the NBKR to rationalize the branch networks of Agroprombank and Elbank;
and (ii) the ability of Promstroi Bank and AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank to
restructure themselves and attract domestic and/or foreign investments.
Part C:    Debt Recovery and Resolution
      Provision of technical assistance to support the organization and
operation of the Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA).
Part D:    Bankers' Training Institute
      Provision of equipment, technical assistance and training to
organize and support a Bankers' Training Institute in Bishkek.
Part E:    State Agency for Securities and Non-Bank Financial Institutions
      Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance to support and strengthen the State Agency for Securities and
non-bank financial institutions.
Part F:    Public Debt Instruments and Securities
      Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance to develop public debt instruments and securities.
Part G:    Central Registry System for Pledges
      Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower's Ministry of
Justice to establish a central registry system for pledges.
                                ***
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
Page  8
                             SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:      Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
      Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract for goods, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts;
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
Page  9
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                  for deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
Page  10
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 5.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  11
