Report No. PIC1867
Project Name              Argentina-Public Investment Strengthening...
Technical Assistance Project
Region                    Latin America & the Caribbean
Sector                    Public Sector Management
Project ID                ARPA37049
Borrower                  Republic of Argentina
Implementing Agency       Direccion Nacional de Inversion Publica y
Financiamiento de Proyectos (DNIP)
Secretariat of Economic Programming
Ministry of Economy and Public Works
Hipolito Yrigoyen 0 piso 8o, Of. 829
1310 Buenos Aires
Contact: Lic. Luis Rotaeche (Director, DNIP)
Tel: 541-349.55.64
Date this PID prepared    July 16, 1995
Tentative Date of
Board Presentation        September 22, 1995
1.   Background. Argentina has suffered from a prolonged political and
economic decline with a concomitant deterioration of its public
institutions. The present Administration addressed these problems with
a series of profound structural reforms, which included decentralization
of large portions of the economy (privatization of nearly all public
enterprises at the national level and transference to the Provinces of
a large number of functions), a 15% reduction in federal employment
numbers (excluding privatizations and transferences), and strengthening
of key institutions, in all of which the Bank has played an important
supportive role.
2.   The deterioration of the state resulted, among others, in the
complete breakdown of the budgetary process. In the absence of the
planning framework given by a properly formulated budget, control and
evaluation of expenditures was very weak.. The present Administration
addressed these issues with resolve, and as a result, timely accounting
and budgeting information can now be produced daily and the National
Budget has been presented to Congress three years in a row. With control
of expenditures successfully addressed in this way, the next area which
would need to be addressed is the efficiency and efficacy of
expenditures.
3.   GOA's investment strategy has altered considerably. The change in
the role of the State from productive to regulatory resulted in large-
scale privatization of state-owned enterprises and a considerable
decrease in the quantity, although not the quality, of public investment
requirements. Nevertheless, considerable investment remains. GOA's
investment program for 1995-1999 (see 1/) proposes investing
approximately of US$86.8 billion, including National, Provincial and
Municipal Governments as well as privatized and public enterprises. Of
this amount, US$6 billion are direct National Government investments,



and US$18 billion are national investments through transferences and
loans.
4.   The investment programming mechanism has never been strong in
Argentina. Information on the status of a sample of investment projects
in the present pipeline revealed that no more than 10% of those projects
could provide a detailed feasibility study to justify the project and
its design. Poor project preparation also resulted in a substantial
variation across projects in the speed of implementation, which in some
cases is as low as 14% of planned execution. Weak identification
mechanisms, poor physical and financial monitoring of execution, and no
evaluation of results or impact characterize public investment today.
5.   To address the weakness in the use of its investment resources, in
1993 Government created the National Directorate for Public Investment
and Project Financing (DNIP) in the Ministry of Economy. In August 1994
the National System for Public Investment (SNIP) law was approved by
Congress. This law assigns to DNIP the responsibility for putting
together, the tri-annual National Public Investment Plan. These duties
include: ensuring the quality of national and nationally-cofinanced real
capital investment (both ex-ante and ex-post); setting norms for project
analysis and evaluation; maintaining an up-to-date inventory of
projects; and identifying projects of national interest, assisting in
their preparation and helping find external financing. The
responsibility for project identification, preparation and evaluation
remains with the sectoral agencies and thus this is an important step
away from the old paradigm of the central planning ministry and towards
decentralization of responsibility to the investing agencies.
6.   For the National Public Investment System to function effectively,
three areas need to be addressed: (a) the lack of public and private
sector awareness of the importance of evaluation of results and impact
as a measure of the effectiveness and efficiency of expenditures; (b)
training of selected management and staff in sectoral agencies in
project identification, analysis and preparation as well as the use of
project and program evaluation; and (c) the relative lack of experience,
given its recent creation, of the central unit (DNIP) in guiding a
process of this nature.
7.   Project Objectives. The project aims to enhance the effectiveness
and efficiency of the GOA's public expenditure management by improving
in a first phase its investment process, enhancing its project analysis
capabilities and building up the evaluation capacity in Argentina.
These goals would be achieved by: (i) building the ownership/commitment
of senior GOA officials to the application of good practice in the
formulation and implementation of strategic investment decision-making;
(ii) building a sustainable decentralized capacity to identify, prepare,
select and evaluate investment by Central Government agencies; and (iii)
supporting DNIP in the implementation of the National Investment Plan
System (SNIP).
8.   Project Description. The project would be implemented over a five-
year period starting in late -1995, and would finance high level
workshops, training programs, technical assistance and a certain amount
of equipment through four components, as follows.
- 2 -



Sectoral Investment Decision Making (US$1.2 million, or 5t of total
project cost). A series of high level interventions involving
respected international expertise would be organized to provide a
forum for the exchange of ideas and experience in the area of
investment decision making.
Improvement of Agencies' Project Analysis and Evaluation Capacity
(US$7.9 million, or 31.7t of total project cost). The objective of
the component is to enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of
public investment and to create a culture of analysis and
evaluation of investments and public expenditures through training
and technical assistance to up to 100 national government
expenditure agencies.
Basic Studies in Support of Sectoral Investment Strategies (US$8.7
million or 34.9w of total project cost). These studies will assist
in project identification and the preparation of sectoral
strategies in priority sectors.
Support to the Preparation of the National Public Investment Plan
(US$2.4 million, or 9.5w of total project cost). Although the bulk
of the strengthening effort is addressed to the investment
agencies, a certain amount of strengthening of DNIP is required for
this Directorate to fulfill the duties assigned to it by the SNIP
Law.
Project Administration (US$2.5 million, or 10t of total project
cost) consisting of project administration, office equipment,
yearly external audits and an agreement with a procurement agency
for procurement and administration services. Price contingencies
constitute an unallocated amount of US$2.2 million (8.8w of total
project costs).
9.   Project Financing. Total project costs are estimated at US$
million. A Bank loan of US$16 million (64w of total project costs),
which would cover all foreign exchange costs and 54t of all local
currency costs, is proposed. The Government would provide counterpart
funding of US$9 million (36w of total project costs), which would cover
all taxes and duties, equipment maintenance and office rental, as well
as portions of project activities.
10. Project Implementation. The National Directorate for Public
Investment and Project Financing (DNIP - see above) will be the
executing unit for this project.
11. Sustainability. Commitment of the Government to a transparent and
efficient public investment system is shown by the approval of the SNIP
Law in August 1994 and its reglamentation in May 1995, defining the
public sector's responsibilities in public investment. The accessibility
for consultation by both Government and Congress to the project databank
and the quarterly presentation to Congress increases the transparency of
the process.
12. Environmental Assessment. This project finances training in
environmental impact assessment, and a series of studies in this
- 3 -



sector. It does not have explicit environmental effects. The project has
been classified as category B.
13. Program Objective Categories. The primary category is Public Sector
Management (PB).
14. Poverty Category. N.A.
15. Project Benefits. The main project benefit would be a public and
private sector aware and in part trained in methodologies for the better
use of public resources which will result in an eventual increase in the
productivity of public investments and lead to a medium-term expenditure
framework.
16. Project Risks. The major risks are (i) unsustained Government
commitment to reform; and (ii) improper use of the investment system,
due to an excessive politicization of the selection of projects
resulting in a decrease in the incentive to prepare projects well. The
SNIP Law is an assurance of Government commitment, while the process
transparency measures contemplated will minimize excessive
politicization.
1/   Argentina en Crecimiento, 1995-1999, Ministerio de Economia y Obras
y Servicios Publicos, Argentina.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending December 20, 1996.
- 4 -



