Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NO. 029188
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Public Investment Strengthening Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated September 18, 1995
TRUST FUND NO. 029188                
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 1995, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Recipient) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
Page  2
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and the Bank 
and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested the Bank and the 
Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made 
available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and the 
Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said grant 
funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph 
(b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 
2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in Sections 
2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, 
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as 
Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and 
the Bank and the Association referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except 
Page  3
that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its books in the name 
of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the Grant have 
been paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at the 
request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such 
withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth; and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
 "DNIP" means the Recipient's National Directorate for Public Investment and Project 
Financing;
(b)
 "Public Investment Strengthening Project" means the project being prepared by the 
Recipient for strengthening the preparation and evaluation of its public investment projects and which it 
intends to propose to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for financing; and
(c)
"Yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of thirty-two million nine 
hundred thousand yen (¥32,900,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to 
Page  4
time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and 
to be financed out of the Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial  practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
Page  5
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the applicable provisions of Article IX of the General 
Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish to the 
Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, a plan for the integration of the results of the 
Project into the Public Investment Strengthening Project; 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate practices, taking into account the Administrator's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties hereto.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01.  The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250, 5o. piso 
1310 Buenos Aires
Page  6
Argentina
Cable address
Telex:
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA121950 AR
Baires
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI)or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day and year 
first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ A. Humberto Petrei
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Sri-Ram Aiyer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the Grant, the allocation 
of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
     Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
      Yen        
to be Financed
(1)
Technical assistance
28,600,000
100%
(2)
Office equipment
4,300,000
100% of foreign
and supplies
expenditures
and 80% of local
expenditures
TOTAL
32,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that 
of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient. 3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of 
paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for equipment and supplies  under contracts not exceeding 
$40,000 equivalent; and (b) for consultants' services under contracts with firms costing less than $50,000 
equivalent and under contracts with individuals costing less than $20,000 equivalent, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
Preparation of the Public Investment Strengthening Project through the provision of technical 
assistance with respect to:
Part A
: Project Preparation and Evaluation
Review of best practices in the preparation and evaluation of public investment projects in other 
countries and adoption of suitable methodologies for various sectors of economic activity after such 
Page  8
review.
Part B
:  Project Accounting and Monitoring
Development and testing of a prototype accounting and monitoring system for public investment 
projects, including the interconnection of such system with the national budget and accounts and the 
provision of information to DNIP and the Recipient's National Audit Office to as to enable these agencies 
to conduct impact evaluations and ex-post reviews, as well as acquisition and use of office equipment for 
testing of the prototype system and for later use by DNIP in the execution of the Public Investment 
Strengthening Project.
Part C
: Administrative Manual
Preparation of an administrative manual for the monitoring and control of public investment 
projects, including archiving procedures and reporting standards, to increase the efficiency of project 
coordination units and the monitoring and ex-post evaluation of their projects by DNIP.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
. 
Procurement of Equipment and Supplies
Equipment and supplies shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Administrator in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines), in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Administrator. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 
(the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
For complex time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Administrator.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the Consultant 
Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, 
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for 
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent each. However, said 
exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; 
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
Page  9
determined by the Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $20,000 equivalent or above.
