Page  1
May 24, 1999 
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos Hipólito 
Yrigoyen 250 1086 
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 3958-AR (Public Investment Strengthening Technical 
Assistance Project) Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated February 
21, 1997 (the Loan Agreement), as amended, with regard to the above-captioned Loan.  
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions 
on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as set forth below.
1.
The term "SEP", wherever it appears, is hereby replaced by the term "SERP".
2.
The term "SIP", wherever it appears, is hereby replaced by the term "SERP".
3.
Section 1.02 (c) is hereby deliberately left blank.
4.
Section 1.02 (i) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  " "SERP" 
means the Secretariat of Economic and Regional Planning within MDE;".
5.
Section 1.02 (j) is hereby amended by replacing the period at the end thereof 
with the word "; and".
6.
A new Section 1.02 (k) is hereby added immediately after Section 1.02 (i), to 
read as follows in its entirety: ""Public Investment Law" means the Borrower’s Ley del 
Sistema Nacional de Inversiones Públicas (National Public Investment System Law), 
published as Law no. 24354 in the Borrower’s Boletín Oficial (Official Gazette) on 
August 8, 1994.".
7.
The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in 
its entirety as set forth in Attachment A to this letter.
8.
 Parts A, B, C and D of Schedule 2 are hereby replaced by the text set forth in 
Attachment B to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.  A new amortization table for 
Loan 3958-AR will be sent to you shortly, reflecting the cancellation referred to in 
Attachment A to this letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Alexandre Abrantes
Acting Director
Country Management Unit
for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  2
By /s/ Mr. Roque Fernández
Date: July 20, 1999
ATTACHMENT A
 Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   760,000
76%
(2)
Consultants’ services and 
training
 8,320,000
80% for all expenditures 
incurred during 1999; 
68% for all other 
expenditures
(3)
Project Administration
 1,420,000
82%      
Amount cancelled as of
 5,500,000
April 28, 1999 
TOTAL
       16,000,000
ATTACHMENT B
Part A:
Policy and Legislative Framework
1.
Carrying out of a series of seminars and other training activities on topics 
such as the following, all aimed at familiarizing decision-makers and other Argentine 
public sector officials with best practices in selected developed countries with 
respect to the evaluation of public investment and public expenditure; at replicating 
such best practices in Argentina; and at contributing to the strengthened 
implementation of the Public Investment Law:
(a)
building incentives for, and broader awareness of, increased emphases on 
results-oriented concepts in public investment and expenditure management; and
(b)
designing methods for the preparation and implementation of ex-ante, 
on-going and ex-post evaluation of investment programs and projects.
2.
In line with the best practices studied under Part A.1 of the Project:
(a)
identification of possible modifications to the Public Investment Law and 
its regulatory framework to improve provisions regarding results-oriented policies and 
practices;
(b)
preparation of legislative proposals to achieve such modifications; and
(c)
development of other proposals for establishing policies emphasizing 
results-oriented principles and practices in public sector management. 
3.
Training Argentine decision-makers and technical staff with regard to proper 
application of their legislative and regulatory framework governing public investment, 
including with regard to the Public Investment Law and the standards of the national 
system for public investment. 
4.
Carrying out informational activities, for the benefit of relevant Argentine 
public sector staff, on international experience with public sector performance 
management.
Part B:
Improvement of Project Analysis and Evaluation Capacity of Agencies of 
the Borrower
1.
Carrying out of capacity-strengthening courses for Argentine federal, provincial 
and municipal public investment agencies and related government entities on investment 
decision-making, project preparation and management, and program and project 
monitoring and evaluation, covering, inter alia, the following topics:
Page  3
(a)
application of a strategic framework for developing an investment 
decision-making system;
(b)
application of best practices in project analysis and management, taking 
into account environmental, human and institutional factors in policy and project 
formulation, different approaches to such analysis and management according to the 
sector involved, the effects of risk and uncertainty elements, as well as alternative 
methods for assessing financial and economic costs and benefits; and
(c)
ex-ante, on-going and ex-post evaluation of investment programs and 
projects. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower on the application of project 
analysis techniques as part of the preparation of specific projects, annual investment 
plans and multiannual investment programs.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower on the application of 
monitoring and evaluation techniques, including provision of advice on:
(a)
the development of a management information system for the Borrower’s 
Under Secretariat of Strategic Control;
(b)
project implementation;
(c)
ex-post evaluation of selected projects; and
(d)
the development of a national professional evaluation association.
Part C:
Studies in Public Expenditure 
1.
Carrying out of studies aimed at providing the analytical base for improved 
expenditure planning in the preparation of sector strategies and project development, 
and for expenditure reviews, with particular emphasis on social areas.  
2.
Carrying out of studies on the effects of national privatization measures, 
actions designed to improve the performance of critical social programs and other 
activities related to significant national expenditure issues. 
3.
Carrying out of studies on natural resources and infrastructure for obtaining 
basic information for the preparation of related public investment strategies and 
projects. 
Part D:
Strengthening of SERP
Provision of technical assistance to the following directorates of SERP in 
guiding and bolstering the program and project analytical and evaluation functions of 
public sector expenditure agencies:  the National Directorate for Public Investment, 
the National Directorate for Social Expenditure Control and the National Directorate 
for Projects with International Organizations.
Part E:
Project Administration
Carrying out of Project coordination and administration activities.
