Page  1
March 22, 2001
Dr. Domingo Felipe Cavallo
Minister of Economy
Ministry of Economy
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 3958-AR (Public Investment Strengthening 
Technical Assistance Project) Amendment to the Loan 
Agreement
Dear Dr. Cavallo:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the 
Borrower) dated February 21, 1997 (the Loan Agreement), as amended, with 
regard to the above-captioned Loan.  We are pleased to inform you that, 
pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank 
agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as set forth below.
1.
Section 6.01 is hereby amended by deleting the words "and Public Works 
and Services".
2.
The first paragraph of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows 
in its entirety: "The objectives of the Project are:  (1) to enhance the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the Borrower’s public expenditure management 
by (a) improving its investment process, (b) enhancing its project analysis 
capabilities and (c) building up its project and program evaluation capacity; 
and (2) more generally, to support the establishment within the Borrower’s 
public administration of a results-oriented management approach and of a 
monitorable emphasis on providing service to the public.".
3.
Part E of Schedule 2 is hereby redesignated as Part G, and new Parts E 
and F are hereby inserted immediately after Part D thereof to read as follows 
in their entirety:
"Part E:
Results-Oriented Management of the Borrower’s Public Administration
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to Borrower staff to 
design, establish and apply within the Borrower’s public administration a 
results-oriented management approach based on (a) strategic planning, (b) use 
and monitoring of results agreements entered into by federal public sector 
entities as a tool for defining and measuring expected public agency 
performance, (c) application of a system of sanctions and incentives within 
said public administration to motivate compliance with such agreements and (d) 
adaptation of the Borrower’s procurement and civil service rules to conform to 
such an approach.
2.
Carrying out of seminars and technical briefings as a means to 
disseminate the aims and achievements of such a results-oriented management 
approach among specialists in the field, communication media, academic 
institutions, interested non-governmental organizations and, through such 
intermediaries, society at large.
Part F:
Public Service Standards for the Borrower’s Public Administration
Provision of technical assistance and training to Borrower staff to 
design, establish and apply within the Borrower’s public administration a 
Page  2
system of formal commitment to compliance with monitorable standards for the 
provision of governmental services to the public, such system to be based on 
(1) identification of citizens’ rights with respect to public sector outputs 
for each type of public sector service provider (with particular emphasis on 
public sector providers of health, education and administrative services), (2) 
elaboration of specific service standards per public sector agency on the 
basis of such identification and (3) application of publicized service 
standard compliance agreements entered into by all affected public sector 
agencies.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be 
executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your 
confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions 
of this amendment letter will become effective as of January 1, 2000 upon 
receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Director, Country Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By/s/ Domingo F. Cavallo
Authorized Representative
Date:  April 20, 2001
