LOAN NUMBER 3958-AR
Loan Agreement
(Public Investment Strengthening Technical Assistance Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated  ru     2/,1997


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3958-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      FeAva t e        / .1997, between ARGENTINE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
WHaEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the BorTower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of
the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:


﻿-2-
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "Administrative Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 5.01 (b)
of this Agreement;
(b)    "BAPIN" means Banco de Proyectos de Inversi6n P6'blica, the Borrower's
Public Investment Project Data Bank;
(c)    "SIP" means Subsecretaria de Inversi6n Publica, the Borrower's
Subsecretariat of Public Investment within SEP;
(d)    "Implementation Plan" means the plan for the execution of the Project
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(e)    "MDE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Public Works and
Services;
(f)    "PAU" means the Project administration unit refend to in Section 3.04 (a)
of this Agreement;
(g)    "Performance Indicators" means the indicators for measuring the results of
the Project agreed between the Borrower to the Bank;
(h)    "Project Administrator" means the Project administrator referred to in
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(i)    "SEP" means the Secretariat of Economic Programming within MDE;
(j)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall have an
aggregate value equivalent to the amount of sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the puiposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal
to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.


﻿-4-
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)     "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
of a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as
follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such
Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on February
15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Secretary of SEP, or any other person designated in writing by
him, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project, through SIP, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, managerial and financial practices, and shall. provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Administrative Manual and the
Implementation Plan.
S2ction 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the
continued achievement of the Project objectives; and
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, at all times until completion of the
Project, a Project administration unit with organization, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the following functions and responsibilities:
(i)     preparation of the reports referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this
Agreement;
(ii)    carrying out the procurement of goods and consultants services
required for the Project; and
(iii)   overseeing the administration of the Project, with respect to
withdrawals, accounting and auditing.
(b)    The Borrower shall ensure that the PAU is, at all times during the
execution of the Project, headed by a Project administrator, with qualifications, experience,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers.
(c)    Without limitation or restriction upon other provisions of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the discharge of the functions of the PAU and the Project
Administrator.
Section 3.05. With regard to the services of the consultants to be employed under
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Plan, the Borrower shall, through the
PAU:
(a)    promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to the Bank a copy
of the consultants' findings and recommendations;
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings and
recommendations; and
(c)    review and implement the recommendations of such consultants, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.06. With regard to the training programs to be carried out under the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Plan, the Borrower shall, through the PAU:


﻿-7-
(a)    furnish to the Bank, for its approval, the proposed contents of each such
program, the schedule for its implementation, and the trainees' selection criteria;
(b)    carry out such training programs in accordance with the contents, schedule
and selection criteria approved by the Bank; and
(c)    furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the results of each such training program and the benefits
derived therefrom.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through the PAU, shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank on or about December 31 and June 30 of each year, a report integrating the results
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
twelve-month period following such dates; and
(c)    review with the Bank the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of said reports and the Bank's views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:


﻿-8-
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a)    the PAU shall have been established and the Project Administrator shall
have been appointed;
(b)    the Borrower shall have put into effect a Project administrative manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, such manual to comprise:
(i)     details on the organization, functions and responsibilities of the
PAU; and
(ii)    guidelines on the implementation and monitoring of Project
activities; and
(c)    all action shall have been taken by the Borrower in order to permit that the
procurement of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be made in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning
of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the action referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of this
Agreement has been taken and no other action on behalf of the Borrower is required for the
procurement of goods and services in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date ?d..k  & /        , 1997 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the Geneal Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided by Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister
of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras
y Servicios Pilblicos
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Telex:
(390) 21-952
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                   248423 (MCI), or
64145 (MCI)


﻿-11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /5/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Dollar                to be
Category                    Equivalent)            Financed
(1) Goods                      550,000                 76%
(2) Consultants'             13,750,000                68%
services and
training
(3) Project                   1,700,000                82%
Administration
TOTAL                        16,000,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Project Administration" means
administration expenditures of the PAU, including: (i) advertising and production of
bidding documents; and (ii) local and international travel.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under:
(a)    contracts for goods and for the services of consulting firms costing less
than $100,000 equivalent;


﻿- 13 -
(b)    contracts for the services of individual consultants' services costing less
than $35,000 equivalent;
(c)    category 3 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule; and
(d)    category 2 of the table set forth in paragraph I of this Schedule for
training,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the
Borrower's public expenditure management by: (a) improving its investment process; (b)
enhancing its project analysis capabilities; and (c) building up its project and program
evaluation capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:       Sectoral Investment Decision Making
1.     Carrying out of a series of high-level seminars aimed at familiarizing decision-
makers with best practices in the areas of public investment and public expenditure
management in selected developed countries and the concepts of the Borrower's law on
public investment Qey del Sistema Nacional de Inversiones Piiblicas), including the
following topics:
(a)    developed countries' innovations in public investment and expenditure
management;
(b)    strategic perspectives in public finance management; and
(c)    public investment in provinces and municipalities.
2.     Carrying out of a series of high-level workshops on decision-making, covering,
inter alia, the following topics:
(a)    participatory approaches to investment decision-making;
(b)    the public investment management process; and
(c)    building evaluation capacity to strengthen public sector management.


﻿- 15 -
Part B:       Improvement of Project Analysis and Evaluation Capacity of Agencies of
the Borrower
1.     Conducting capacity-strengthening courses on investment decision-making, project
management, procurement and project cycle implementation, covering, inter alia, the
following topics:
(a)    investment decision-making and project management;
(b)    application of a strategic framework for developing an investment
decision-making system;
(c)    application of best practices in project analysis and management,
integration of the project life-cycle, different approaches to analysis and management
according to the sector involved, and environmental considerations in policy and project
formulation;
(d)    role of human and institutional factors in project design and performance;
(e)    effect on project performance of risk and uncertainty; and
(f)    financial and economic calculations relating to project analysis.
2.     Carrying out of training programs for local trainers on principles and techniques of
project analysis and management, and development of a local training methodology that can
be applied in all sectors of the Borrower's economy.
3.     Carrying out of training programs on principles and techniques of project analysis
and management.
4.     On-the-job training to strengthen institutional capacity for the preparation of
strategic medium term expenditure and investment frameworks.
5.     Provision of technical assistance on application of project analysis techniques,
through the preparation of specific projects, annual investment plans and multiannual
investment programs.
6.     Provision of technical assistance on the application of impact evaluation
techniques, through the analysis of selected existing projects.


﻿-16-
Part C:       Studies
1.     Carrying out of studies to provide the analytical basis for the evaluation of
environmental costs and benefits of public-policy decisions and investment projects.
2.     Carrying out of studies on natural resources aimed at producing environmentally
sound investment strategies.
3.     Carrying out of studies on cross-regional infrastructure aimed at providing basic
information for the preparation of related public investment policies and strategies.
Part D:       National Public Investment System
Provision of technical assistance in the preparation and implementation of the
Borrower's national public investment system.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each August 15 and February 15
beginning August 15, 2001
through February 15, 2011                     800,000
*      The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 18-
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on the
principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified
for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                  Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                  0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                    0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                  1.00
maturity


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:       General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Biddin
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C and D of this Section, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:       Limited International Bidding
1.    Goods which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part C.
(a)    Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)    Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for computer hardware and software shall be carried out in
two stages, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 20 -
Part D:       Local Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:       Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval,
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply to each contract procured in accordance with the provisions of Parts B and C
hereof.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable
to the Bank shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants


﻿-21 -
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined
by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in
the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $750,000
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the


﻿- 23 -
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only


﻿- 24 -
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)     If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the Intcrnational Bank
for Reconstruction and Dcvelopment.
FOR SECRE


