Document of
rhe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Cg /t<F- IAJ
Report No. 6897-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
November 13, 1987
Country Department IV
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUITALENTS
US$ 1 = Rupees (Rs) 13.5
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                    (10,000 m2) = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)           =       2.205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)          =       0.6214 miles
1 meter (m)               =       3.281 feet
1 square kilometer (km2)          0.386 square miles
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AI        -      Artificial Insemination
AMUL      -      Anand Milk Union Limited
DCS       -      Dairy Cooperative Society
EEC       -      European Economic Community
ERR       -      Economic Rate of Return
FMD       -      Foot and Mouth Disease
FRR       -      Financial Rate of Return
GOI       -      Government of India
ICB       -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -      International Development Association
IDC       -      Indian Dairy Corporatlon
LCB       -      Local Competitive Bidding
lpd       -      Liters per Day
MIS       -      Management Information Systems
M&E       -      Monitoring arid Evaluation
mlpd      -      Million Liters per Day
MPU       -      Milk Producers Union
MT        -      Metric Tons
NCDFI     -      National Cooperative Dairy Federation of India
NDDB      -      National Dairy Development Board
ND I      -      First National Dairy Project
ND II     -      Second National Dairy Project
NDRI      -      National Dairy Research Institute
NMG       -      National Milk Grid
OF        -      Operation Flood
PCR       -      Project Completion Report
PPAR      -      Project Performance Audit Report
SNF       -      Solids Not Fat
SOE       -      Statement of Expenditure
UAS       -      Uniform Accounting System
UHT       -      Ultra High Temperature



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PR.OJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................                             i
I.   SECTOR BACKGROUND ................... ..   ...................ooo*o** ***    1
Introduction .... ....... *......*.. *..**......................   1
Agriculture and Livestock in the Indian Economy         ...............   1
The Livestock Sector ...........................                     2
The Cooperative Dairy Sector ....................*......   3
The OF Model . ....       .....................    4
OF Model Features  .. . ....... . ...*...a .........I.... * ,    5
Central Institutions .....     ***...................                6
Progress and Lessons Learned under OF and Bank-Financed
Dairy Projects ..........................                          8
Current OF Dimensions ........... *... ......                    8
Achievements of Bank-Assisted Dairy Projects ...............     8
Lessons Learned During Implementation of Bank-Assisted
Projects .....                                                10
II.   PROJECT RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES .o............ o.....o........    11
Rationale for Dairy Cooperative Development and Bank
Involvement .*.**..*..*....*....*....***..............*.  11
OF Ra t ionalIe  o...... . ..  . . a. ...  .....  .....a.a.*. ...... ....9... .  . *... .  tl
Rationale for Bank Involvement ....      o............................  11
Project Objectives ................ .. ....... .. ... ..   .............  12
This report is based on the findings of preappraisal and appraisal missions
in November/December 1986 and March/April 1987. Mission members included
K. Oblitas, G. Russell, W. Hardison, E. Chobanian and R. Dennis (Consultant),
with research assistance from T. Estoque. Messrs. E. Muller and B. Zimmer
from the EEC also participated in the appraisal mission. Word processing was
done by Ms. B. Bolden and Ms. M.T. Rodrigo.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CONTENTS Continued                                                            Page No.
III.   THE PROJECT .................  13
A.  Summary Features                                                     13
Project Targets 1..................14
B.  Detailed Features                                                    14
Establishment of Cooperatives                                    14
Productivity Enhancement Measures                                16
Animal Health ...16
Feed and Fodder Promotion ...........17
Genetic Improvement ..............18
Animal Husbandry and Extension                                   19
Milk Collection, Processing, Storage and Distribution            19
Rural Processing Facilities ............21
National Milk Grid                                            21
Distribution and Marketing                                    22
Targeted Improvanents                                         23
Institution Strengthening                                        23
Training                                                      23
Research and Development ............................  24
Monitoring and Evaluation                                     25
Market Promotion .........25
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...........o...........o...o.......   26
Project Costs ...............  26
Project Financing                                                        27
Bank/IDA Financing Terms                                             28
OF Financing Terms                                                    28
Procurement ........                                                     29
Disbursements .       .     ....                                         31
Retroactive Financing and Special Account                             32
Reporting Requirements                                                   32
Accounting, Budgeting and Auditing                                       32
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                 ...............33
Project Implementation ..........                                        33
Planning                                                                 34
Sub-loan Appraisal Procedures .....          .34
Institutional Development ................. ........... *                35
Role of Apex Institutions                                                36
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ............                                          37
Financial Situation of NDDB ........37
Grants and Subsidies                                                     38
Financial Situation of Participating Borrowers                           40
Financial Projections of Representative Investment Models                41



CONTENTS Continued                                                          Page No.
VII.   MARKETING, PRICING AND TRADE POLICY ............... ..............   41
Marketing *e 00009***** 00000000000000.004 . ........... .. ...  41
Production Costs and Price Levels    .............................  42
Trade and Commodity Aid Policy ...................e......   43
Impact of Eristing Policies        ................................  43
Review Mechanism ...........................................  44
Price Policy ...........................                               44
VIII.  BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS         ................................  45
Project Benefits and Welfare Impact         ...........................  45
Impac; on Poverty and Incomes        .............................,  46
Social Impacts and Impact on Women ......        ...................  46
Environmental Impact ............................ .....  47
Economic Rate of Return ............................*..........*...47
Sensitivity ..... ......................................  48
Risks .................... .    48
IX.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ......   49
ANNEXES
1.  Project Cost Summary          ............................................  51
2.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements             ........................  53
3.  Project Implementation Lessons Learned from Previous
Bank-Financed Dairy Projects .................................   54
4.  Key Features of the OF Cooperative Model           ........................  57
5.  NDDB/IDC Financial Projections          ..................................  58
6.  Equity and Grant Financing Under OF III           .........................  66
7.  Financial Models of Participating Entities           ......................  67
8.  Marketing, Pricing and Production Cost Analysis .................        74
9.  Indicators of OF's Rural Poverty and Social Impact  ..............  87
10.  Economic Rate of Return  ....      ....................................  88
11.  OF Dimensions by State                   ...........................  89
12.  Contents of Project File          ...........................   90
ORGANIZATIONAL CHARTS
Chart No. 31119.1 Operation Flood Project Au.thority
Chart No. 31119.2 Project Implementing Agencies
Chart No. 31119.3 Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 19912 National Milk Grid 1986
IBRD 19913 Dairy Cooperative Structure, Participating Families and
Milk Procurement in 1986



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:           National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)
Anmount:               US$360 million (IBRD US$200 million; IDA US$160 million
equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Onlending Terms:       Government of India (GOI) to NDDB:  Repayment over 15 years,
including 3 years' grace for principal and interest, at an
interest rate of 7-1/2% per annum. GOI will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
NDDB to Federations and Unions participating in the dairy
industry under the Operation Flood (OF) program: Repayment
over 15 years, including 3 years' grace for principal and
interest, at an interest rate of 10% per annum.
Project Description:  The project would be financed over a 7-year period and would
support the third phase of "Operation Flood", India's nation-
wide program for development of the dairy industry, by creat-
ing viable, private sector oriented and farmer owned
cooperatives. Three state level and one national level
project (all fully disbursed) have previously assisted
development of OF. The Second National Dairy Project would
help finance investment costs related to: (a) expansion in
the number of villag. cooperative societies involved (from
47,000 to 70,000); (b) expansion in dairy processing and
marketing infrastructure to handle a further 5.2 million mlpd
of milk; (c) development of productivity enhancement measures
(veterinary services, animal husbandry extension, cattle
feed, fodder production, genetic improvement and foot and
mouth disease control); and (d) institution strengthening
measures (training, research and development, improved market
promotion, upgraded cooperative management, monitoring and
evaluation).
By completion the project would have increased the number of
participating families from 4.7 million to 6.7 million and
would have substantial impact on incomes and employment for
rural poverty groups and women. Also, supply of OF milk
would increase by 60% helping meet a rapidly growing urban
consumption. Particular emphasis is placed on institutional
and policy reforms for the cooperatives and on sub-loan
appraisal and monitoring procedures to improve profitability,
develop self sustainable institutions and promote increased
efficiency and competitivity in the dairy sector. The main
risk relates to the project's institutional objectives which
would require substantial adjustments at the level of the
participating state governments and cooperative Federations.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: a/
…US$ Million -------
Project Components                                 Local      Foreign      Total
Establishment of village cooperatives               59.2         4.0        63.2
Productivity enhancement                            55.9         3.4        59.3
Processing capacity                                195.4        19.1       214.5
Milk marketing systems                              93.9         8.8       102.7
National milk grid and storage                      34.3         4.2        38.5
Institutional strengthening and training            24.0         5.4        29.4
Subtotal                                     462.7        44.9       507.6
Physical contingencies                              23.8         2.3        26.1
Price contingencies                                140.0         4.0       144.0
Total                                        626.5         51.2      677.7
Financing Plan:
…------ US$ Million -------
Local     Foreign      Total
NDDB's own resources b/                            317.7          -        317.7
Bank/IDA                                           308.8        51.2       360.0
Total                                       626.5        51.2       677.7
Estimated Disbursements: c/
FY88     FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93     FY94
Annual            46        44        40        60       60        60        50
Cumulative        46        90       130      190       250       310       360
Economic Rate of Return: 27%
a/ Includes taxes and duties amounting to US$13 million.
b   Including commodity aid from the EEC with an anticipated value of
US$150 million.
c/  Bank/IDA fiscal years.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAlSAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01    The proposed Second National Dairy Project (ND II) would support the
third phase of "Operation Flood" (OF), India's dairy cooperativc. development
program, an agricultural development priority in the National Plan. OF's
objectives are to promote the establishment of viable, farmer owned and
managed cooperative businesses for collecting, processing and marketing of
milk from rural hinterlands, the promotion of measures to improve animal
health and productivity and the sale of milk and milk products in urban
areas. In its first phase (1970-77), the main thrust of OF was to establish
cooperative structures in some of the country's best milksheds located in ten
states and to link these with milk supply to India's four major cities
(Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras). OF II (1978 to 1985-d6) extended the
program to cover nearly all of India's states and union territories and the
supply of other urban centers and was a phase of rapid expansion. OF III
will continue the expansion of milk procurement, processing and marketing,
but will place particular emphasis on promoting measures to increase farm
level productivity, improving the efficiency, commercial viability and com-
petitivity of the dairy sector, and consolidating past investments. Also,
under the program, institutional, policy and management adjustments would be
achieved to promote greater financial viability and self sustainability of
the cooperative dairy sector.
1.02    Four pre.ious Bank operations, with total credits of US$224 million,
have contributed to development of India's dairy cooperative sector
(paras 1.21 and 1.22). OF has also been supported through sale revenues from
imports of skimmed milk powder and butter nil under commodity aid provided
initially through the World Food Program and, since the late 1970s, the
European Economic Community (EEC). The usage of funds generated through
commodity aid for investment in the dairy sector has been an integral part of
OF and has been an important source of OF funding.
Agriculture and Livestock in the Indian Economy
1.03    India has a population of about 795 million (mid-1987), which is
growing at an annual rate of 2.2%. Although average per capita incomes
(US$260 in 1985) have increased by about 2.5% per annum over the past decade,
this has resulted in only a gradual reduction in the high incidence of
pcverty and under-employment, especially in rural areas. Accordingly, the
Government of India's (COI) development plans give high priority to creating
employment and alleviating poverty, particularly in the rural sector.



-2-
1.04    Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 37% of the gross national product. It engages about two-
thirds of the labor force and agricultural p:oduction accounts for 24% of
the country's merchandise exports. Due to heavy population pressure, the
average size holding is only about 2 ha. Farmers with less than 1 ha of land
occupy approximately 57% of the holdings and about 30% of the rural popula-
tion are landless agricultural laborers.
1.05    Significant advances in agricultiral productivity, especially in the
cereals' sector, were made with the initial impetus of improved varieties,
fertilization, irrigation development and improved crop husbandry during the
"green revolution" of the past 20 years. With rising demand for food, there
is a continued need to i&.zrease productivity and production through better
technology, improved efficiency, and optimum resource allocation. This, in
turn, requires the stimulus of increased rural incomes and inconte security
and improved rural employment opportunities.  Government's agricultural
strategy also aims to increase output to satisfy rapidly growing demand for
pulses, oilseeds, milk and horticultural products, and to exploit other
diversification possibilities. Land conservation and forestry are also
receiving increased attention. Development of strong agricultural support
services (extension, research, input supply, marketing and credit) are recog-
nized as fundamental features of the agricultural development orogram.  The
mobilization of farmer resources and initiatives through development of
cooperatives hds been a central plank in Government's development priorities
over several decaoes.
The Livestock Sector
1.06    The livestock sector accounts for about 18% of India's agriculcural
output, of which two-thirds is from the value of milk production. The
country has the largest cattle and buffalo population in the world, estimated
at 200 and 75 million, respectively, and accounting for about one-sixth of
the world's cattle and one-half of the world's buffaloes. Approximately 31%
of the total number of cattle and 51% of the buffaloes are breedable females.
Milk production is estimated to have grown by about 4% per annum and to have
reached 42 rnillion tons per annum in 1985-86 (Annex 8). Buffalo milk
accounts for about 60% of the total milk produced. Future milk production
and marketing levels will need to respond to a projected growth in overall
consumption of over 4% per annum and, in particular, for rapidly expanding
urban needs anticipated to grow at over 6% per annum (para 7.01).
1.07    The pattern of livestock keeping in India is dominated by the need
for draft power, while the production of dung constitutes an important by-
product as an input into crop production and as fuel. Although the primary
reason for keeping buffaloes is milk production, for cattle owners, milk
production has traditionally been a subsidiary motive, though this is chang-
ing especially in villages serviced bj dairy cooperatives. The ownership of
cattle and buffaloes is widespread. Nearly half of India's rural households
own milch animals, generally with small herds of one to three animals. About
21% of milch animal owning households are landless and a further 30% are
marginal farmers with holdings of less than 2.5 acres (Annex 9). Where a
market exists, dairying offers a reliable and regular source of income and an
opportunity for gainful employment which, for many of India's poorer rural



-3-
households, disadvantaged social classes and women, is more accessible than
most other income earning possibilities in the rural sector.
1.08    Milk production per animal of the indigenous cattle breeds, and to a
lesser extent buffaloes, is low, averaging about 250 liters and 700 liters
per lactation, respectively. Late age at first calving, long intercalving
periods, short lactations and low average yields are the main factors con-
tributing to low production. All of these factors are linked to and
influenced by a generally low level of livestock nutrition due to shortage of
feed. The productivity of crossbred cows, which number about 6 million, is
considerably higher than the indigenous cattle and averages about 1,200
liters per head per lactation under field conditions. Since 1970, the
productivity of cattle and buffaloes is estimated to have increased by about
20% and 40%, respectively. As most of India is subject to highly seasonal
rainfall resulting in large variations in feed supplies, milk production also
shows significant seasonal variations.  Peak supplies commonly occur in the
"flush" period of December to March, when they reach a volume normally twice
that availabLe in the "lean" season of May to August. This seasonality,
which for full exploitation needs to be reflected in mi:k processing
capacity, is most marked in the case of buffaloes, a seasonal variance of
2.5:1, and is reduced in the case of crossbred animals receiving feed supple-
ments to about 1.5:1.
1.09    The availability of feed has been both a constraint on livestock
output expansion and an available resource with limited alternative uses
other than for the livestock sector. Rough grazing and otherwise non-
utilizable crop residv-s are the main sources of feed supplies. Through the
green revolution, increase,s quantities of straw and by-product feeds have
become available and, wich few alternative uses, have been the main source of
increased feed and of growth in livestock numbers. In turn, livestock
provide dung for fertilizing the crops and cattle provide draft power.
Production of fodder crops occupies less than 5% of the cultivated land and
offers considerable potential for longer term expansion of the dairy sector,
especially where fodder can be grown as an interseason nitrogen fixing crop
on irrigated parcels, which would complement crop producti3n capabilities.
The complementarity between crop and animal production is a key characteris-
tic of the Indian dairy sector, particularly as dairy animals are generally
stall fed, thus minimizing environmentaL damage from overgrazing of pasture
land. A far reaching potential for future growth of dairy productivity and
improved environmencal management would come over time with increased atten-
tion to herd composition and systematic culling of unproductive animals
(males not used for draft power, infertile or old females). The presence of
such animals, which are allowed to forage on rough grazing due to religious
reasons, reduces the availability of natural .fodder for productive animals
and causes environmental damage to marginal lands. Farmer attitudes to
unproductive animals are gradually changing as economic motivations for
animal ownership become more important and opportunities for marketing of
cull animals expand.
The Cooperative Dairy Sector
1.10    OF's cooperative dairy sectrr now supplies some 20% of the milk
consumed in urban areas. OF has its roots in a response by farmers to the
limited opportunities to market milk despite strong demand in urban areas.



-4-
Traditionally, farmers sold liquid milk or village made milk products, mainly
ghee and khoa, to private vendors. This remains today the main market outlet
and source of urban milk supplies (some 70% of urban consumption), but suf-
fers from a generally limited market range and the seasonality of supplies,
to the detrintent especially of farmers in the rural hinterlands.
Additionally, marketing margins are high and there are substantial indica-
tions of low and highly variable producer prices as a result of the limited
bargaining strength of farmers and collusive practices of the traditional
vendors. In response to the locational problem, dairy animals were also
brought to and stabled in urban centers, a practice with obvious environmen-
tal problems connected with disposal of dung, usage of water and transport of
fodder. Furthermore, the practice loses the agropastoral complementarities
(animal traction, fertilization) of a rural based mixed dairying-crop produc-
tion system. This traditional sector of inner city buffaloes and cows is
nonetheless an important element in the supply of the larger cities with
fresh milk (up to 10% of urban milk supplies), despite numerous local
ordinances to control the numbers involved. Important steps towards estab-
lithing rural-urban marketing links were made by the Federal and State
Governments from the 1950s through the setting up of urban dairies in major
towns, many of which are now in process of being handed over to the coopera-
tive sector. Additionally, a small number of private dairies exist, as well
as government-organized urban milk production schemes (for instance, the
Aarey Milk Colony in Bombay); but the overall contribution of the private
dairies and organized milk production schemes represent less than 5% of urban
milk supply. Development of the cooperative dairy sector has added an impor-
tant additional channel for collection and marketing of milk, thereby
increasing competitivitv in the dairy sector previously almost entirely
dependent on traditional vendors with limited marketing range. Substantial
room remains for other private sector investments in dairying. Such initia-
tives will be encouraged under India's dairy development policy to play their
part in expanding dairy production to meet the projected rise in consumption
of milk and milk products (para 7.02).
1.11    The precursor to OF was the establishment in 1946 of the Anand Milk
Union Ltd. (AMUL) at Anand in Kaira District, Gujarat. In response to
limited marketing opportunities from the traditional sector and the monopcly
marketing practices of a privi.te dairy, a group of producers organized their
own cooperative milk marketing scheme so as to obtain better milk prices and
access to the Bombay market. This cooperative proved highly successful. It
now involves 365,000 families, markets some 800,000 liters of milk per day
(lpd) and provides technical services to farmers to increase productivity.
Under OF, a further 170 cooperative Milk Producers' Unions have been estab-
lished and total OF output now amounts to some 8 mlpd (para 1.20). The
essential characteristics of AMUL's operations and organizational structure
have become known as the Anand or OF model and are the basis for the institu-
tional structures and operational features being created in the other OF
cooperatives.
1.12    The OF Model.  The OF model consists of a four tier cooperative
structure owned and managed by the member producers.
(a) At the base is the Dairy Cooperative Society (DCS), a village level
cooperative (typically with 80 to 150 members) which receives milk
twice a day, pays each producer on a regular basis (ranging from



-5-
twice daily to twice monthly as decided by DCS members) based on the
quantity and quality of milk delivered and organizes or helps coor-
dinate various production services to farmers (sale of cattle feed,
promotion of fodder seed, artificial insemination (AI), veterinary
and animal husbandry services).  All milk producers in the village
are eligible to become members of the society. The society appoints
a local individual as the paid secretary of the cooperative (who
frequently also provides AI and veterinary first aid services).
Depending on its size, the society may employ additional staff.
(b) DCSs within a 50-75 km radius are members of a Milk Producers' Union
(MPU) of cooperatives, usually one MPU per district, and with an
average of some 280 DCSs per MPU.  The MPU organizes milk collection
and processing at the Union dairy (pasteurization and packaging of
fresh milk, some conversion to other products), distribution and
marketing in urban centers and sells production inputs (cattle feed,
fodder seed) to the DCSs. Technical and advisory services (veteri-
nary and Al services, fodder crop promotion and imlroved animal
husbandry practices) are provided through the MPU. Associated
infrastructure--dairies, chilling centers (inti.ediate plants for
cooling of milk where distances or milk volumes j.stify), cattle feed
plants, etc.--are owned and managed by the MPUs.
(c) MPUs in each state are members of a Federation, which may also owtl
and operate larger dairy plants or other infrastructure (where a
state or union territory is small a single MPU may also operate as
the Federation). Aggregate planning of cooperative sector input
services, milk marketing, Dricing policy and participation in the
National Milk Grid (NMG) f; transport and storage of milk is
organized at MPU and Federation levels.
(d) Overall coordination and policy making for the cooperative dairy
industry will be the eventual role of the National Cooperative Dairy
Federation of India (NCDFI), which received its full statutes in
1985. NCDFI's Board represents the chairmen of state Federations and
over time is intended to become an increasingly important body for
central coordination and policy making in the dairy cooperative
sector (para 1.18).
1.13   OJF Model Features.  AMUL's success is based on a number of key
institucional features which have enabled it to operate as an independent
farmer managed business entity able to respond to the needs of its producer
members.  The essential properties of these features are jutlined at Annex 4
and comprise: elected boards from member constituents for DCSs, MPUs and
Federatior.s; bylaws ensuring democratic and accountable operations; employ-
ment by the cooperatives of professional managers; management and ownership
by the cooperatives of assets used in dairy processing, marketing and produc-
tivity enhancement; and autonomy of decision making related to pricing,
marketing, appointment of key personnel and employment of labor. While some
differences in the detailed application of these features are encouraged
under OF where specific local conditions merit, the experience gained in very
divergent agroecological, social and political environments throughout India
has amply demonstrated the soundness of these basic features. Wherever
applied, efficient commercially oriented and viable operations that are



-6-
responsive to their producer member neeus and that properly function as
private sector businesses tend to result. Where these features are incom-
pLetely adopted, the institutions tend to have overly staffed bureaucratic
managements, and lack a profit m.nximizing/cost saving orientation, are iiade-
quately re6ponsive to producer concerns and priorities, have greatly exces-
sive labor usage for plants, are inefficient with resultant high operating
costs, have price levels that may not allow adequate margins, and frequently
are not financially viable (para 6.07). Although progress towards the OF
model features has been made, substantial further adjustments are necessary
in most states.
Central Institutions
1.14    Two Government statutory bodies, the National Dairy Development Board
(NDDB) and the Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC), have coordinated and financed
OF's development program. Under the National Dairy Development Board Act of
1987, approved and made effective by India on October 12, 1987, IDC was
dissolveu and incorporated, along with its assets, liabilities and
privileges, with the erstwhile NDDB to form a restructured National Dairy
Development Board, a body corporate retaining the key features of the two
former entities. This merger is part of the improvements that have been
planned under OF III in NDDB/IDC operations. Formerly, both organizations
had a common Board and Chairman and functioned as a substantially integrated
entity. NDDB and IDC have proven themselves to be dynamic and dedicated
organizations which have very atly led the OF program. The new NDDB struc-
ture (para 5.09) will improve efficiency and management in targeted areas
(para 1.24 and chapter V) while retaining the highly pcsitive features
characterizing most of the management, financial arrangements and operations
of the former structures. The description below (paras 1.15 and 1.16)
relates to the former structures; through full retainment of the key features
described and appropriate division of departmental responsibilities, the
substance of the descriptions and functions will continue to appLy under the
restructured NDDB.
1.15    The former NDDB, with headquarters at Anand in Gujarat, was a non-
profit society created in 1965 and registered under the Societies
Registration Act. It has provided technical, engineering, advisory,
training, research and support services in milk production, procurement,
processing and marketing for the planning and development of India's dairy
industry under the OF program.  The total staff is about 1,300, of which 880
are professional level (mainly engineers, livestock specialists, and dairy
technologists, with some accountants and economists). NDDB has four regional
offices (in Delhi, Calcutta, Bombay and Bangalore) and a program coordinator
is located in each state (see Chart 31119.1 for organizational structure).
NDDB has built up the expertise to offer clients (mainly the Federations and
MPUs) high level technical assistance. This includes provision of a special-
ized procurement service for equipment and civil works (drawing up technical
specifications; preparing tender documents; evaluating bids; placing orders;
certifying delivery; and supervising construction, commissioning and initial
operations of plants).
1.16    The former NDDB's financial organization and situation is sound
(para 6.01). NDDB has received over 75% of its income from professional fees
earned through technical assistance and procurement services provided to the



-7-
cooperatives. The remainder of its income has come mainly from grants (GOT
and international agencies). In addition to its role in the dairy sector,
NDDB has been involved since 1979 in implementing an Oilseeds and Vegetable
Oil Project. This project which is supervised through a special management
committee for this purpose, is financed by funds generated from the sale of
vegetable oils donated by the Cooperative League of the USA and the
Cooperative Union of Canada. The fund is also used to finance pilot
activities in fruits and vegetables, and investigations in the development
possibilities of forestry and fisheries. The net accumulated fund for these
projects, its assets and liabilities, and general accounting and control have
been adequately separated from that of MDDB's main role of dairy development.
1.17    IDC was a wholly owned GOI company, headquartered in Baroda, Gujarat,
with regional offices in Calcutta, Delhi, Bombay and Bangalore. Headquarter
offices will now be relocated to Anand. IDC has managed and sold milk
products (skimmed milk powder and butteroil) supplied through commodity aid,
thereby generating funds for assisting the implementation of the OF program.
These funds, along with IDA funds onlent by GOI, have enabled IDC to operate
as a specialized investment bank for the cooperative dairy sector. This
financial role complemented the promotional, development and technical role
played by NDDB. As discussed at para 6.03, the former IDC was a financially
strong institution. Organizationally it was comprised of four directorates
(Finance, Project Appraisal and Implementation, Monitoring, and Commodities
Management). The Finance Directorate exercised financial control/accounting
functions, including responsibility for the internal audit; the Projects
Directorate appraised sub-loans and monitored disbursements and use of
project funds; the Monitoring Directorate gathered and monitored OF
information, mainly relating to milk procurement and processing, pricing and
payments; and the Commodities Directorate organized and controlled the
receipt and movement of gift commodities and the control, quality and pricing
of indigenous commodities. At October 1987, IDC's total staff numbered about
270, with about 150 at its head office.
1.18    Over time, it is intended that the NCDFI (para 1.12) will gradually
take over many of the dairy cooperative coordination and policy functions
currently undertaken by NDDB. NCDFI was formally established in 1970 as a
national level apex organization of the dairy cooperatives, but its develop-
ment has had to await the time when the dairy Federatijns became more
established. In 1985, NCDFI was registered under the Multi-state Cooperative
Societies Act as a federal body. With the increased emergence of farmer
elected Federation chairmen, the time is now appropriate for NGDFI to
progressively take a more prominent place in cooperative development policy,
a role that is being encouraged by central Government and NDDB. In
particular, NCDFI's role in policy coordination and in milk marketing and
operations of the NMG will be built-up over the OF III period (para 5.10).
To facilitate the expansion of NCDFI's role, the NCDFI secretariat is now
based in Gujarat and is currently under the same chairmanship as NDDB,
1.19    Other institutions playing an important role in national dairy
development are the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), located at
Karnal, Haryana, involved principally in genetic, animal production and dairy
technology research, and the agricultural universities. At the level of
individual states, the state Ministers of Agriculture or Dairying have sub-
stantial sovereignty over budgeting and policy for dairy development in their



-8-
respective states through the state DgPBrtments of Animal Husbandry or
Dairying. They steer dairy activities outside the OF program, including, in
particular, state veterinary services and other programs (e.g., fodder
promotion) supporting dairy development, qnd are responsible for operating
state run milk plants. The state governments have been central to the his-
toric development of dairying in India, both as concerns the promotion of
animal productivity enhancement measui-es and in the establishment of milk
plants prior to the OF program. They have also generally played an important
and supportive role in recent years in the establishment of OF's activities
in their respective states. The central Ministry of Agriculture and its
Dairy Husbandry Department functions in an advisory capacity and as a conduit
of any central government funding to state governments, and plays a key role
in the overall coordination of national dairy development nolicy.
Progress and Lessons Learned Under OF and Bank-Financed Dairy Projects
1.20    Current OF Dimensions.  OF is now represented in practically all of
Tndia's states and union territories (see Map IBRD 19913). As at March 1987,
22 Federations had been established encompassing 170 MPUs and 47,000 DCSs
covering a total of 4.7 million rural households, or some 26 million persons
(about 5% of India's rural population or 10% of the milch animal owning
households). The OF cooperative sector markets on average 8 mlpd of milk,
representing 20% of the milk marketed in urban areas. OF production is
concentrated particularly ilt states with a long tradition of cooperative
dairying--especially in Gujarat with 29% of OF production and Maharashtra
with 22%--and is growing in importance in the southern states (Karnataka,
Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala now contribute some 25% of OF
production) as well as in Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh (Annex 11).
While milk procurement in eastern and other northern states is a small share
of total OF procurement, OF in these areas has increaningly important local
significance as a source of rural incomes and urban milk supplies. Main milk
surplus areas are the northwestern states and, now, the southern states.
Through the NMG (sea Map IBRD 19912), these regional surpluses are primarily
channelled to the four main metro centers (Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi and
Madras).
1.21    Achievements of Bank-Assisted Dairy Projects.  The build-up of OF has
been particularly rapid over the past five years corresponding approximately
to the OF II period or the main years of implementation of the First National
Dairy Project (FY78, Cr. 824-IN of US$150 million) which directly supported
the OF II program. Key indicators of OF progress and comparisons with ND I
appraisal targets are at Tabie 1.1.



-9-
rable 1.1: KEY INDICATORS OF DAIRY COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT
Increment    Actual as
March       Increment   Target at   % Appraisal
1981    1986    1981-86    Appraisal        Target
Federations (States)           10       22         12          n/a
MPUs                           39      164        125           50            250
DCSs (thousands)               13.3    42.7        29.4         20            147
Farm families  (millions)       1.8      4.5        2.7          3.5           77
Average milk procurement
(mlpd)                        2.6      7.9        5.3          8.0           66
NB:  Figures refer to "Anand Pattern" cooperatives.  The increase in DCSs and
membership includes about 35% of existing cooperatives converted to the
Anand pattern.
1.22    ND I, which became effective in December 1978, initially encountered
long delays related principally to execution of the necessary financing
agreements between IDC and the state governments, the constitution of the
state Federations, the finalization of state dairy plans and the adoption of
model cooperative bylaws. Significant progress only began in 1981, but
progressively accelerated implementation resulted in the project closing as
scheduled (December 1985). Appraisal targets of ND I were attained or sur-
passed with respect to the number of milksheds covered, the number of DCSs
organized and the provision of milk processing capacity. Farmers covered
will also exceed appraisal targets by 1988. Milk procurement, growing at 17%
per annum over the past several years, is expected to be some 20% below the
trend production forecast for 1987/88 due to drought, but to subsequently
resume the previous growth rate and to exceed ND I appraisal targets by 1989.
The earlier appraised three state level dairy projects (Karnataka, Cr. 482-IN
of US$30 million, FY74; Rajasthan, Cr. 521-IN of US$27.7 million, FY75; and
Madhya Pradesh, Cr. 522-IN of US$16.4 million, FY75) encountered greater
implementation difficulties. Nevertheless, by project completion, institu-
tions and dairy processing infrastructure had been established and combined
milk procurement, though below the overly ambitious appraisal targets, had
increased from 58,000 to 640,000 lpd.
1.23    Project Completion Reports (PCRs) for the four projects were prepared
in 1986 and a combined Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) (Report
No. 6857) finalized in June 1987. The PCRs and PPAR concluded that each of
the projects had resulted in significant achievements and that impressive
progress had been made relative to the main objectives of the projects and of
OF generally: expansion of OF institutions and operations to new areas;
expansion of dairying infrastructure and increased cooperarive milk
procurement; establishment of secure market outlets for surplus milk from
cooperative villages; increased provision of milk to urban centers; setting
in place of measures to increase farm level productivity and encouragement of



-10-
the growth of a nodern and competitive dairy industry. Economic viability
was also found to be satisfacto:y exceDt in the case of Madhya Pradesh. l/
1.24    Lessons Learned During Implementation of Bank-Assisted Projects.
Notwithstanding the significant achievements made under OF and the supporting
Bank-financed dairy projects, a number of shortcomings and lessons for future
development were noted in the PCRs and PPAR and are reviewed at Annex 3. As
concerns OF's animal_productiv4ty enhancement objectives, these have been
generally well focussed on the key factors involved, but some adjustments of
emphasis are now recognized to be necessary (Annex 3). Implementation and
management will need continued strong emphasis by NDDB on training to build
up the capabilities of the cooperatives. In particular, financial management
and commercial personnel need strengthening, improvements are needed in
marketing, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of field impact needs greater
attention. A particular focus needs to be placed on measures to improve
f:nancial viability, firstly, at the level of the cooperatives through more
stringent appraisal and monitoring of investment programs and more emphasis
on business management and, secondly, to improve the long term financial self
reliance of NDDB through adjustments in NDDB lending terms. The principal
lesson learned relates to the need for institutional and policy features
conducive to viable and sustainable cooperative development, features that
the fully applied OF model (para 1.13 and Annex 4) encapsulates. Remarking
on these matters, the PPAR emphasized "a central plank of the AMUL coopera-
tive organization is farmer ownership/control at DCS, MPU and Federation
level and, most importantly, freedom of the cooperative organization to
manage all aspects of milk procurement, processing, marketing and pricing."
The usually highly successful performance of those MPUs and Federations which
have been encouraged to operate as intended under the OF model, has led to
strong support by the central government of the institutional reforms being
promoted by NDDB and to a progressively increased commitment from the state
governments.
1.25    The revised OF III program and proposed project have fully taken
account of the above observations. In aggregate, the adjustments required
are substantial and will require an extended period of time for full
implementation. Nevertheless, OF is already a highly successful program. It
is strongly supported by participating rural families who have found coopera-
tive membership to be an important way of improving incomes and family
welfare. Further, as demonstrated in Chapter VII, despite the considerable
room for improving efficiency, OF is cost competitive and supplies cheaper
I/ "Rajasthan and Karnataka proved to be economically viable with recalcu-
lated economic rates of return (ERRs) of 28% and 22%, respectively. For
Madhya Pradesh, low incremental production resulted in a negative
economic rate of return. For the National Project, recalculated finan-
cial rates of return for landless families with crossbred cows was 37%
and this was estimated to be higher for small farmers who could provide
their own fodder. For DGSs the financial rate of return (FRR) was
estimated at 28% and for MPUs, 17%. An overall economic rate of return
was not estimated for the National Project. However, it is expected that
it would be significantly higher than the opportunity cost of capital in
India" (from PPAR Evaluation Summary).



- 11-
milk to consu-ers than most other major producers and exporters. The PPAR's
very positive overall assessment concluded that continued growth and sus-
tainability of OF was achievable and recommended continued support through
Bank financing and through commodity aid to help attain these objectives.
II. PROJECT RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES
Rationale for Dairy Cooperative Development and Bank Involvement
2.01    OF Rationale.  Prior to OF, India faced a situation where expanding
demand threatened to substantially increase an imbalance between milk supply
and demand, especially around urban centers. At the same time, the basic
resources for a domestic dairy industry were already present: a large
population of cattle and buffaloes in rural areas and low farm production
costs due to the complementary features between crop and livestock
production. The dairy industry was rudimentary and the bulk of urban supply
was dependEat on small-scale traditional vendors collecting milk from nearby
farmers or on city-based milch animals. Various solutions to this problem
were tried but they met with mixed success and had only minor aggregate
impact on rural farmers and urban milk supplies. The limited prospects for
marketing of milk beyond family consumption needs also thwarted efforts to
improve milch animal productivity. OF is modeled on a highly successful
farmer-led initiative which has proven itself capable of resolving these
basic locational and processing constraints to the benefit of both rural
producers and urban consumers. Some 20% of urban milk consumption is now me:
by OF's dairy cooperative sector; urban milk scarcity, consumer prices and
reliance on imports has fallen; a significant market force has been addet. tc,
provide competition for the traditional vendors and help regulate producer
and consumer prices; and the OF cooperative dairy sector has production,
processing and marketing costs which compare favo;>bly with the costs of
other major world producers (Chapter VII and Annex 8). .he cooperative
sector also offers a mechanism through which efforts to improve milch animal
productivity can be channeled. Finally, dairy development has an important
impact on the incomes of participating families, the majority of whom are
marginal farmers or landless agricultural laborers, and also significantly
involves and benefits women (paras 8.02 to 8.03 and Annex 9). The basic
successes of the OF program have resulted in progressively increased finan-
cial support and commitment by the central and state Governments. OF is now
considered the main instrument for future national dairy development and a
lead model for cooperative based initiatives in other rural subsectors.
2.02    Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank's support would help steer
OF through a critical development stage, and key policy and institutional
reforms would he adopted to increase competitivity and efficiency in the
dairy industry. Of the 170 MPUs now incorporated under OF, 125 have been
established since 1981. Most of these young institutions are still rela-
tively inexperienced and many have not yet attained financial viability or
the institutional and policy characteristics necessary to function as inde-
pendent and sustainable businesses. NDDB, while a competent agency, also
needs to strengthen its management and operations to cater for the much
larger dimensions of the OF program and to improve on areas of past weakness.
The Bank's participation would provide support and financial leverage for the



-12-
extensive adjustments that COI and NDDB have targeted. Project design, and
the associated revisions that have been made in OF III, have focussed on
consolidation of the OF program, with particular emphasis on promoting
measures to improve the productivity and competitivity of the cooperative
dairy sector and on policy and institutional adjustments aimed at assuring
its long-term sustainability. The investments and institutional and manage-
ment adjustments to be supported under the project would thus assist an
already well proven but still evolving program to steer dairy cooperatives
towards financially strong farmer owned and managed private businesses, to
the benefit of both rural producers and urban consumers. Such developments
would in particular be to the significant social benefit of a large number of
rural people, including a high proportion of poorer households and women.
Project Objectives
2.03    The following particular orientations would be included under the
project:
(a) Adjustments in coorerative institutional structures towards charac-
teristics o': the OF model (elected boards for DCSs, MPUs and
Federations, model bylaws ensuring democratic and accountable
operations, professional managements answerable to the cooperative
boards, management and ownership by the cooperatives of dairy
infrastructure, autonomy for each cooperative in pricing, marketing,
appointment of key personnel and employment of labor) through
monitoring by NDDB of agreed state implementation programs and
through NDDB onlending conditionalities for cooperative loans related
to satisfactory compliance with these agreements (Chapter V).
(b) Financial Viability. Improving the financial position of the
cooperatives through more stringent NDDB appraisals to ensure the
financial soundness of investments (para 5.04); financing of working
capital (para 4.04); adjustment of bylaws to provide for the build-up
of capital reserves (para 6.09); adjustment of charges for coopera-
tive services to farmers to improve financial recoveries (para 6.05);
improving NDDB's long-t3rm financial position through hardening of
onlending terms to cooperatives (para 4.04); and progressive intro-
duction of measures to reducq subsidies on cooperative investments
(para 6.05).
(c) Management Strengthening. Enhancement of NDDB and cooperative
management and implementation capabilities through continued emphasis
on training (para 3.24) and research and development (para 3.26);
enchancement of business management, marketing skills, and technical
support; and improved monitoring of cooperat;ve performance
(Chapter V).
(d) Animal Productivity Enhancement. Further build-up and improvements
in cooperative livestock husbandry, veterinary, genetic improvement
and feed and fodder crop promotion programs, and dovetailing where
practical of cooperative extension efforts with those of the state
government services (paras 3.08 to 3.16).



-13-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Features
3.01    The project would support Phase III of Operation Flood and would
consist of investments related to:
(a) Cooperative Development. Expansion of some 170 existing cooperatives
(increased rumbers of farmers, DCSs and milk procurement per MPU) and
provision for establishment of about 20 new MPUs.
(b) Productivity Enhancement Measures:
(i) Development ar.d improvement of veterinary services;
(ii)  Promotion of improved animal husbandry extension services;
(iii) Promotion of use of balanced cattle feed and feed
supplements, including expansion of cattle feed production
capacity where usage levels justify this;
(iv)  Increased fodder production through silvipasture estab-
lishment and fodder crop demonstrations, distribution of
fodder minikits and establishment as necessary of fodder seed
processing facilities;
(v)  Genetic upgrading of cattle and buffaloes through continued
promotion of AI, provision of bulls for natural service, and
support to sire evaluation programs; and
(vi)  Promotion of a pilot FMD vaccination program.
(c) Milk Collection, Processing, Storage and Distribution:
(i)  Investment in increased milk processing capacity:  new
dairies amounting to about 3.5 mlpd; expansion of existing
dairies, a further 3.5 mlpd; and milk powder drying capacity
of about 480 mt per day;
(ii)  Investment in chilling centers of about 1.7 mlpd, (new) and
1.1 mlpd (expansion); and
(iii) Market infrastructure and associated equipment for expansion
of the NMG, including expansion of metro dairies (by about
1.1 mlpd), road and rail tankers and milk product storage.
(d) Institution Strengthening and Training:
(i) Training programs for staff of Federations, MPUs and DCSs and
provision of advisory services to strengthen technical and
business management;



-14-
(ii) Completion of the adoption of uniform procedures of account-
ing and management information systems, strengthened account-
ing and auditing, and strengthened capacity for project
investment analysis and supervision;
(iii) Further development of market promotion capabilities;
(iv) Field M&E of project impact on technical and socio-economic
parameters; and
(v) Applied research and studies and funding of consultancies and
training related to animal productivity enhancement,
processing, the development of new dairy products and
development of NDDB's management and technical expertise.
3.02    Project Targets.  The program would be implemented over a seven year
period. Indicators of the anticipated build-up of cooperative structures,
participating families and milk procurement are shown at Table 3.1. Project
dimensions are based on the aggregation of the anticipated individual state
programs for OF III. These state plans would be regarded as indicative
targets with actual implementation depending on the soundness of sub-project
proposals and the pace of institutional change. Based on past performance
and the experience gained under ND I, the proposed targets, which would be
applied by NDDB with some flexibility, are reasonable.
Table 3.1: PROJECTED BUILD-UP OF COOPERATIVE STRUCTURES,
PARTICIPATING FAMILIES AND MILK PROCUREMENT
Project Period
Increment
(1981)    1987    1994        1987-94
Number of Federations                        10         22       22           -
Number of MPUs                               39        170      190          20
Number of OF pattern DCS (thousands)         13         47       70          23
Number of farm families (millions)            1.8      4.7       6.7         2.0
Average milk procurement (mlpd)              2.6       8.5      13.7         5.2
B. Detailed Features
Establishment of Cooperatives
3.03    About 23,000 DCSs would be established, raising the total number to
about 70,000. Existing traditional societies converted to OF pattern DCSs
would comprise about 35% of the total. Of the balance, about 45% would be
established in areas covered by existing MPUs, while some 20% would be formed
in new areas.
3.04    The key functions of the new DCSs would be similar to those of exist-
ing ones. DCSs would be village community organizations with membership open



-15-
to all villagers who own milch animals, registered under the local registrar
of cooperative societies and operating under standard OF model bylaws. The
DCSs would act as collection centers for measuring volumes and individually
testing the milk supplied twice daily by village producers. They would keep
records and make regular payments to each member based on the quantity and
quality of milk supplied. They would also sell balanced cattle feed, provide
or coordinate provision of other services such as fodder planting material,
animal health and Al services, and communicate cooperative and technical
information to members.
3.05    About 20 new MPUs would be established in milkshads identified as
having promising agroecological/marketing potential and iuitable institu-
tional conditions for cooperative development. The functions of the new MPUs
would be, as previously, to organize DCS establishment and training; tran-
sport milk from DCS to dairy; process and market milk; and provide animal
health and Al services, cattle feed, fodder planting material and technical
advice to the DCSs.
3.06    As in the past, a start-up set of basic equipment and funding would
be provided on a grant basis to each new DCS (about Rs 11,700 (US$870) per
society or USjl0 per participating family). 1/ Beyond this initial capital
contribution, each DCS is expected to fully cover society expenditures--
including financing of replacement equipment and materials and, if desired,
eventual construction of its own society building or other social
infrastructure--through established margins retained on milk collection. New
DCSs would also be eligible for working capital loans equivalent to 10 days'
milk procurement.
3.07    Help in establishing DCSs and .MPUs would continue to be provided by
multidisciplinary "spearhead teams" trained by NDDB and employed by the
Federation/MPUs.  Spearhead teams assist MPUs in identifying village_ inter-
ested in forming dairy cooperatives along "milk routes" linking them to
dairies or intermediate chilling centers. In the villages, spearhead teams
explain cooperative principles, provide training to the village cooperatives
on technical features, management and bookkeeping and supervise initial DCS
operations. Spearhead team activities would be intensified under the project
and NDDB would also include advisory visits of executive level staff to
already established MPUs to help upgrade technical and business management
and to strengthen animal productivity enhancement measures. Staff and
operating costs of the spearhead teams would be financed on a grant basis in
the first two years of MPU establishment, and thereafter by the cooperatives;
purchase of spearhead teami vehicles and audiovisual and other extension
equipment would continue to be financed on a grant basis (Rs 41 million,
US$3 million).
1/ This includes milk collection and testing equipment, chemicals,
registers and records, some office furniture and extension materials and
a small establishment grant in cash.



-16-
Productivity Enhancement Measures
3.08    Although the technical input program initiated under ND I is
estimated to have had a positive impact on production, milk yield per animal
is still very low (para 1.08). Thus, a major thrust under the project would
be to increase animal productivity through intensification, including some
adjustments in orientation, of the OF programs to promote animal health care,
feed and fodder usage, genetic improvement and animal husbandry practices.
3.09    Animal Health.  Farmers' access to veterinary services has been one
of the most appreciated services provided by the cooperative structures and
the state departments of animal husbandry. Under OF, there were about 460
veterinary mobile units opecated by MPU veterinarians in 1985-86.  They
provided services to over 27,000 DCSs following fixed schedules of weekly
and fortnightly visits and attended to about 9,000 cases per day. In
addition, about 215 mobile units provided round-the-clock emergency service.
Under the project, basic infrastructure (storage, diagnostic facilities,
office space), equipment and furnishings and a four wheel drive vehicle would
be provided to each new MPU (Rs 1.7 million per MPU), and a veterinary first
aid box (Rs 1,300 per kit) provided to each new DCS. About 30 existing MPUs
would have basic infrastructure expanded (Rs 750,000 each) and, for about 25
MPUs without convenient access to Government clinical laboratories, basic
diagnostic equipment (Rs 55,000 per set) would be provided. Total costs
would amount to about Rs 61 million (US$4.5 million).
3.10    To increase the effectiveness of treatment and reduce the financial
burden on the cooperatives, routine weekly visits, which have been provided
free, would be phased out and replaced by improved training and supervision
of village level first aid workers who would handle many of the treatments
normally provided in the routine visits. Graduate veterinarians would con-
centrate on "emergency" veterinary services charged to the farmer typically
at a rate of Rs 30 per visit with the option of higher charges ror more
expensive treatments. The principle would be to develop costing of services
and medicines so that the direct users rather than the general cooperative
structure bear the costs. Additionally, efforts would be made to make more
effective use of state employed veterinary officers by concentrating their
efforts in OF areas and by closer integration of the activities of coopera-
tive and state veterinarians. To ease a common constraint encountered by the
state veterinary services (lack of funds to purchase medicines), state
governments would be encouraged to increase financial allocations for
medicines or facilitate arrangements with private retailers for sale of
medicines against prescriptions forwarded through the village cooperative
milk routes.
3.11    An additional activity financed under the project would be in the
vaccination and control of FMD which is endemic throughout India. Between
5,000 and 10,000 FMD outbreaks are reported every year resulting in an
estimated loss due to decreased milk production and reduced working capacity
of bullocks of Rs 5 billion. The project would support a FMD vaccination
program for interested farmers in about 100 MPUs costing some Rs 160 million
(US$12 million). Under the existing government program, which is technically
well proven but has been on a limited scale due to lack of funds, vaccines
are provided free. Under the cooperative program this would be progressively
adjusted in each milkshed over four years to full charging (estimated cost



-17-
per dose is Rs 3.50 with two vaccines yearly per animal). Additionally, to
the extent that cost recovery funds resulting from charging the selective FMD
vaccination program plus any cost savings possible while achieving the tar-
gets of this program permit, funds from these sources would be used to help
support continuation ana expansion of the ongoing FMD control program in
India's southern states.
3.12    Feed and Fodder Promotion.  Insufficient or imbalanced feeding is a
key constraint to increased productivity. Crop residues, which will continue
to be the main feed source for milk production, can be substantially enhanced
in nutritional value through supplementary use of cattle concentrates, spe-
cial supplements or green fodder. In recognition of this, OF I and OF II
promoted both cattle feed and fodder production. Thirty two cattle feed
plants were constructed with a total capacity of 3,500 mt per day and cattle
feed is now sold by some 20,000 DCSs. Over the 1981-82 to 1985-86 period,
production increased 350% (from 131,000 to 554,000 mt per year), while the
quantity fed per liter of milk procured increased from 129 grams to 247
grams, or 91%. As net marginal returns from supplementary feeding are high,
considerable potential for further increases exist. Due to initially over-
ambitious plant construction schedules, capacity utilization remains low for
most mills but, on the basis of current rates of increase in utilization, new
capacity is expected to be necessary in some areas by the end of the 1980s.
Financial provision has, therefore, been provided under the project for a
further 1,200 mt per day expansion in cattle feed production capacity (sub-
ject for each plant to a detailed utilization and viability analysis,
para 6.09) through the construction of about seven new feed mills (700 mt)
and expansion (500 mt) of five existing mills (Rs 155 million or
US$11.5 million in all). In pilot studies, the provision of urea/molasses
licks has increased the intake of straw and reduced the need for concentrate
feed in both cattle and buffaloes. The project would, thus, construct 25
urea/molasses lick plants, each with a capacity of 3,000 mt per year, most of
which woula be attached to feed mills (total cost Rs 40 million or
US$3 million). Both balanced cattle feed and urea/molasses licks would be
sold at full cost coverage rates, including allowances for building up reser-
ves for future plant expansion. This is a slight hardening on the present
financial management of cattle feed plants which are operated on a "no
profit-no loss" principle. Chemical or biological treatment techniques to
improve the digestibility and nutritive value of crop residues, which are
already being developed in a number of states, would also be more widely
promoted.
3.13    NDDB's fodder promotion efforts aave to date been mainly through
distribution of fodder minikits (during OF II approximately 85,000 minikits
were distributed annually) and on various research and pilot activities.
While additional research is needed, sufficient technical knowledge now
exists to warrant a substantially enhanced fodder promotion program. Under
the project this would include the development of 20,000 ha of silvipasture



-18-
on rainfed lands; 1/ establishment of 23,000 fodder demonstration units,
mainly in irrigated areas; and the distribution of 220,000 fodder mrinikits,
costing in total some Rs 80 million (US$6 million). As experience on this
scale with these programs is limited, it is anticipated that the relative
emphasis placed between these three fodder promotion sub-components will need
to be flexible, with appropriate adjustments made during project implementa-
tion to reflect experience gained and respective implementation achievements
and expectations. Provision of inputs and direct respornsibility for fodder
Fromotion would be through MPU and Federation staff, with technical backstop-
ping by NDDB stmff, in coordination with local state extension services,
forest departmeuits and concerned agricultural and forestry research
institutes. To the extent possible, seed production and processing would be
contracted out by the cooperatives to the National Seed Corporation and the
State Seed Corporations under annual contracts agreed 18 months in advance of
requirement dates. To cater to these anticipated demands, the national seed
development program to be assisted under the proposed Bank-assisted Tlird
National Seeds Project would provide for adaptation of seed processing plants
to fodder seed specifications. Nevertheless, in view of the importance of
quality fodder seed availability for future dairy development, which might
conflict with possible first call in national seed production objectives by
cereal sector requirements, a small provision (Rs 10 million, US$0.7 millior)
would be provided under ND II for possible funding of up to six small (2 tons
per hour) seed processing plants for processing of seed produced by coopera-
tive members (the OF program already does this successfully on a limited
scale). This possible need will be kept under review during project
implementation.
3.14    Genetic Improvement.  By end 1985-86, nearly 9,000 DCSs were provided
with Al services, with 1.9 million inseminations (52% cattle, 48% buffaloes)
and 210,000 recorded female births in that year (corresponding figures in
1980-81 were 5,000 DCSs, 0.8 million AIs and 76,000 recorded female births).
While the crossbreeding program was slow to gather momentum against the
initially ambitious targets set, crossbreeding has proven itself capable of
substantially increasing milk yields under village conditions: and crossbred
bullocks are increasingly accepted as generally sturdy draft animals. The
superior milk performance and financial returns from crossbred animals has
resulted in strong farmer demand for Al services in most villages where it
has been introduced, despite low conception rates and other technical
problems, such as the stitl generally incomplete adjustment of associated
feed and animal husbandry standards, which have reduced the full potential of
the program. Under the project, the AI program would be expaneed to a fur-
ther 12,500 DCSs and a program for purchase and distribution to selected DCSs
of improved bulls for natural service would be introduced. Expansion of AI
infrastructure and progeny testing of crossbred and buffalo bulls would also
be funded: four new bull mother farms (two buffalo and two crossbred farms)
and two new semen production stations; expansion of semen production stations
and five existing bull mother farms; progeny testing at ten semen centers;
and expansion of the liquid nitrogen production and distribution system (a
1/  About 12,500 ha of silvipastures (averaging 10 ha per unit) on communal
wastelands leased by DCSs and 7,500 ha of smaller silvipastures (0.25 to
1.0 ha units) on privately owned marginal lands.



-19-
total cost of Rs 225 million, US$16.7 million). By the end ot the project,
the total number of AIs is estimated at 5.2 million per annum.
3.15    The project includes a number of adjustments in the genetic improve-
ment program: more attention to buffalo improvement; expansion from its
current pilot basis of progeny testing; expansion of Al with exotic semen
limited to areas wiLh relatively favorable climatic conditions and where
adequate green fodder and good animal health coverage are ax lable; and more
intensive training and supervision of DCS staff to improve conception rates
and livestock feeding and management. Also, to re6uce the costs incurred by
the MPUs, the present free provision uf AI services would be progressively
adjusted over the project period to full charging of farmers.
3.16    Animal Husbandry and Extension.  Extension services related to the
main areas above--animal health; genetic improvement; feed and fodder
promotion; optimal nutrition of milking animals, calves and draft animals;
and other aspects of animal husbandry, such as earlier and more frequent
calving and clean milk production--would be substantially improved and inten-
sified under the project. Firstly, the cooperative training program (para
3.24) would be adapted to further emphasize these areas, including courses
designed to improve knowledge and awareness at various levels (Federation and
MPU officials, cooperative veterinarians and livestock supervisors, and DCS
staff). This would be backed up by technical and extension literature.
Secondly, Lhe work programs of MPU livestock supervisors and veterinarians
would be adjusted to include regular programmed visits to DCS villages during
which key themes would be promoted. Thirdly, training of DCS staff would be
expanded to more adequately cover general animal husbandry. Cooperative
technical and financial resources by themselves will not, however, be enough
if major impact is to be achieved. In recognition of this, possibilities for
"dovetaiiing" of state and cooperative technical and advisory services were
discussed between central and state governments and NDDB during the 1986
National Dairy Conference and would be progressively applied under OF III,
with detailed implementation programs determined on a state-by-state basis.
State Departments of Animal Husbandry and Dairying would intensify provision
of field staff and facilities in OF milksheds. Cooperative and state serv-
ices (including general agriculture extension services) would coordinate
extension programs so as to complement their respective resources. More
effective linkages with research institutes and agricultural universities
would also be developed. Resources provided by NDDB and the Federations and
MPUs are anticipated to include assistance with training and provision of
subject matter specialists during general extension staff meetings.
CoGrdination of the dovetailing program would be through the existing State
Coordinating Committees for dairy development which are currently comprised
of relevant representatives of the state governments, the cooperatives and
NDDB, and should be expanded to incLude other relevant bodies such as
research institutes and agricultural universities. Since no formal commit-
tees presently exist in the districts, the state level committees would
ident.ify suitable coordination bodies at the district level.
Milk Collection, Processing, Storage and Distribution
3.17    Build-up of dairy processing infrastructure would be at about the
same pace as achieved in the past five years, representing a growth in
capacity of 10% per annum in line with projected procurement of milk and



-20-
within the absorptive capacity of urban consumers (para 7.01 and Annex 8).
This takes account of the projected growth in the number of farmers involved
and increases in productivity. Although the 1987 drought has temporarily
eased pressure on existing capacity, the need for extra processing capacity
is already pressing in a number of the larger milk producing states. 1/
Project targets, based on NDDB analysis of individual state estimates, are
shown at Table 3.2, with a comparison against previous achievements at
Table 3.3. Peak season processing capacity would be expanded by 7 mlpd, an
increase on current capacity of 54%, and would be accompanied by expansion of
storage, distribution and marketing infrastructure. Project costs cover the
investment costs of infrastructure and equipment and associated engineering
fees during construction. This component represents the largest share of
project costs, some Rs 4.8 billion (US$356 million) or 70% of the project's
base costs. Outline features are in the paragraphs below.
Table 3.2: PROJECT TARGETS FOR PROCUREMENT, CHILLING,
PROCESSING, AND MARKETING
(mlpd)
Base Year    Target    Incremental
(1967)      (1994)    (1987-94)
Average milk procurement              8.5           13.7          5.2
Peak iuilk procurement               11.2           18.3          7.1
Milk chilling capacity                4.4            7.2          2.8
Milk shed processing capacity        13.0           20.0          7.0
Milk powder capacity  (mlpd)        620.0        1,100.0        480.0
Liquid milk marketing capacity        7.5           13.2          5.7
1/  In 1985-86, seven states were unable to process all the milk offered
for sale over the peak months and an estimated 1.5 mlpd was not accepted
by declaring "milk holidays" to member DCSs on an area rotational basis.
Only the severe droughts in several states minimized the need for wide
scale similar procedures during the 1986-87 and 1987-88 seasons.



-21-
Table 3.3: COMPARISON JF PROJECT TARGETS AGAINST PAST ACHIEVEMENTS
Incremental
1981      1986    Achieved   Project
(March)   (March)  During       Targets
1981-86    for
Period      1987-94
Period
Number of farmers (million)                    1.8       4.5         2.7        2.0
DCSs  ('000)                                 13.3       42.7        29.4       23.0
Average procurement for year (mlpd)           2.6        7.9         5.3        5.2
Peak procurement for year (mlpd)              3.4       10.0         6.6        7.1
Milk processing capacity (mlpd)                3.6      10.9          7.3        7.0
Milk powder capacity  (mlpd)                340.0      584.0       244.0      480.0
Liquid milk marketing capacity (mlpd)         2.3        6.0         3.7        5.7
3.18    Rural Processing Facilities.  Half of the project's 7 mlpd incremen-
tal processing capacity would be provided through the expansion of existing
facilities and the remainder through the establishment of new plants (total
base cost of Rs 1,873 million, US$139 million). An additional 2.8 mlpd
chilling capacity is also planned under the project: 60% through the con-
struction of new chilling centers and 40% through the expansion of existing
centers (total cost of Rs 431 million, US$32 million). Milk powder manufac-
turing capacity would be increased by 480 mlpd (Rs 744 million, US$55
million), and about 180 road milk tankers would be purchased (Rs 133 million,
US$10 million).
3.19    While most of the new dairies would be similar in size to existing
medium and larger sized plants (generally 80,000 to 150,000 lpd), two large
scale dairies would be constructed under the project. The first of these
would be owned and operated by the Gujarat Milk Marketing Federation and
installed at Gandhinagar. These plants would be balancing dairies producing
skim milk powder and butter over the seasonal peak months. The Gandhinagar
Plant, because of its strategic location, would also provide milk to the
large adjacent urban nmarkets. With a capacity of 400,000 lpd liquid milk and
75 mt per day of powder, it would be the largest plant in India, representing
Rs 400 million (US$30 million) of the project's total investment costs on
dairy processing. These two plants would cater to increased oeak season
procurement in high production areas and would introduce new technologies to
obtain significantly improved operating efficiencies and costs.
3.20    National Milk Grid.  This system, which functions well but needs
extending, transfers milk (as liquid or product) from surplus to deficit
areas (see Map IBRD 19912) and provides storage for evening out seasonal
imbalances in domestic milk production. Storage facilities for 8,300 mt of
milk powder and 1,200 mt of butter/butter oil were constructed under ND I and
a further 3,000 mt of milk powder storage were completed in 1986-87. Current
storage capacity, however, is capable of handling only a fraction of peak
season liquid milk production and product marketing needs. Substantial
additional capacity is required in order to reduce reliance on imported milk



-22-
products during the lean season. A further 48,000 mt of additional storage
would be constructed under the project (36,000 mt for milk powder and
12,000 mt for butter) costing Rs 159 millicn (US$12 million). This would
allow storage of the equivalent of 560 million liters of liquid milk, repre-
senting 80 days of current average OF milk marketing. Some 60% of the
facilities would be constructed at the Federation/MPU level and the remainder
for NDDB management. Rail transport for long distance haulage of liquid milk
is currently handled by 98 insulated rail tankers, mostly of 40,000 liter
capacity each. These transport an average of 0.6 mlpd, and transport
capacity would be increased under the project through the purchase of an
extra 85 rail tankers (Rs 121 million, US$9 million). Reduced Eurnaround
time and shorter average distances involved would allow transport capacity to
be increased by 1 mlpd. The total costs of rail transport range from Rs 0.18
per liter for short distances to Rs 0.42 per liter for the longest NMG milk
route (from Gujarat to Calcutta), and average Rs 0.30 per liter, or about 8%
of average milk sale prices.
3.21    Distribution and Marketing.  Marketing capacity would be expanded
from 7.6 to 13.2 mlpd, an increment of 5.6 mlpd, with associated investment
costs of Rs 1,460 million (US$108 million). The main expansion (3.3 mlpd)
would be at the level of the OF milkshed cities where marketing of liquid
milk is expected to increase by 75% (para 7.02). An expansion of nearly
one-third current marketed output of liquid milk is also projected for the
four metro dairies (Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras), and the balance
would be through expansion of long-life sterilized (UHT) milk and milk
products (Table 3.4).
Table 3.4: MARKETING CAPACITY
March         March        Increment
1987          1994          1987-94
Metro dairies                                3.7           4.8             1.1
Milkshed dairies                             3.4           6.7             3.3
UHT milk                                     0.5            1.0            0.5
Milk products and fermented milk             0.03           0.7            0.7
Total                                     7.6          13.2             5.6
3.22    Three m=jor modes of distribution would be expanded under the
project:  sacheLs, bulk vending systems, 1/ and tetrapacks for UHT milk.
About 60% of incremental retail sales would occur with milk packed in plastic
sachets (which has proven a technically convenient and popular system, albeit
with costs slightly greaZer than bulk vending), 19% through bulk vending
units and 9% as UHT milk. In addition, some 12% of incremental milk sales
1/ Sale of cold pasteurized and homogenized milk dispensed mechanically
from a bulk cooled container. Several models of bulk refrigerated vend-
ing systems of varying size and differing degrees of automation are in
use to suit different types of market requirements.



-23-
under the project would be as new products (i.e., milk sweets, flavored milk,
etc.). For UHT milk, the project includes funding of equipment for providing
aluminum foil laminates to increase product shelf life.
3.23    Targeted Improvements.  The milk processing, storage, distribution
and marketing components of the project would be carried out by the various
MPUs and Federations under NDDB supervision. NDDB has a strong cadre of
technical staff and has accumulated considerable expertise in the planning,
implementation, commissioning, supervision and management of dairy plants.
NDDB has targeted the following key areas for effecting improvements:
(a)  Shortening the time for executing capital projects (this would
include procedures to hasten all requisite approvals before construc-
tion can commence and application of contractual performance
incentives);
(b)  Simplifying construction specifications to speed up execution, reduce
costs and improve flexibility;
(c)  Progressively introducing larger scale and more efficient plants and
equipment to reduce product losses and improve operational
efficiencies;
(d)  Upgrading management and technical training and improving monitoring
systems to obtain timely and accurate unit cost comparisons between
dairies so that directors, management and shareholders can readily
compare the financial performance of similar operations and
activities;
(e)  Achieving cost-effective staffing.  Where plants have been trans-
ferred from the government to the cooperative sector with excessive
staff levels, special arrangements would be sought by NDD9 to ensure
state government funding of the extra costs incurred until staff
numbers are brought to normal levels; and
(f)  Monitorirg of milk collection costs to ensure that collection routes
are not extended beyond financially justifiable limits. Where a
cooperative takes over milk collection activities from Government
that exceed normal cost parameters for that area, a recompense would
be agreed with the state Government if the cooperative is expected to
continue collection in these areas.
Institution Strengthening
3.24    Training.  OF's current strong training emphasis, which includes well
organized and practically oriented courses in a broad spectrum of management
and technical subjects, and which have had an important impact on improving
implementation capabilities throughout the OF program, would be intensified
under the project. This would include expansion of treatment and subjects
covered to support project implementation aspects targeted for improvement.



-24-
Training is currently implemented through NDDB's own facilities 1/ and at 41
centers managed by MPUs and Federations. Under the project, nine new
MPU/Federation centers would be constructed and equipped and 23 existing
centers expanded. Supplementary training eqlipment (mainly visual aids and
workshop equipment) and training materials would be provided for all
MPU/Federation centers, as well as any necessary equipment for NDDB centers.
Financial provisions under the project (Rs 316 million, US$23 million) cover
costs of civil works, equipment and training operating costs (trainer
salaries, materials, transportation, board for trainees, all treated as
investment costs), and would be financed on a 100% grant basis.
3.25    Over the project period some 13,000 persons are anticipated to
receive training at NDDB managed centers and 380,000 persons at
MPU/Federation centers. Additionally, farmers' induction programs held at
Anand for leaders of new DCSs would continue (50,000 persons). Courses
typically range in duration from two to three days in the case of farmers'
induction programs and DCS management committee members' training, to up to
eight weeks for specialized training of middle level technicians. In
general, higher level training would be through NDDB facilities. NDDB train-
ing courses include: workshops for boards of directors and senior managers;
specialist training courses in all aspects of dairy processing technology,
animal science and productivity enhancement related technology; courses in
accounting and materials management; and training of spearhead teams.
Courses are designed at different levels ranging from executives to junior
technical staff. Training in business management, marketing, animal
husbandry, and M&E would receive increased emphasis under the project. In
certain specialist areas usage would also be made of external institutions
such as the Institute of Rural Management, Anand, and other Indian or foreign
institutions. MPU/Federation centers would continue to concentrate on train-
ing of DCS personnel (DCS staff and management committee members) with
increased emphasis in animal husbandry, livestock feeding and fodder
production. Beyond such formalized training arrangements, spearhead teams
would provide in-field training and assistance to new DCSs and refresher
training and orientation to established societies.
3.26    Research and Development.  The project would provide funds (base
costs of Rs 47 million, US$3.5 million) to support and expand NDDB's applied
research and development program in animal productivity and dairy processing.
Productivity enhancement work would be through applied research, field obser-
vation surveys and demonstrations related to fodder production, animal
feeding, breeding, animal health and improved livestock husbandry. In
processing, emphasis would be given to development of new dairy products with
potentially high profit margins. Substantial collaboration, including some
contract research, would be arranged with the state livestock services and
universities and with research institutes such as the NDRI. To facilitate
forward planning and the focussing of research on development priorities,
annual research work programs would be prepared by NDDB prior to each fiscal
year and forwarded to the Bank for comment.
I/ NDDB has a central training center in Anand supplemented by three other
centers in Gujarat and by regional centers at Erode, in Tamil Nadu,
Siliguri, in West Bengal and Jalandhar in the Punjab.



-25-
3.27    Monitoring and Evaluation.  NDDB's work in these areas has been
limited to some very useful survey work for establishment of basic household
parameters of DCS members, supplemented by a variety of localized studies on
targeted subjects. In company with most of the evaluation work on OF con-
ducted by other parties, this work has not yet achieved systematic and
statistically soundly based assessment of many of the key parameters neces-
sary to reliably quanLtify and evaluate OF's field impact. These include
cause and effect assessment of the impacts of OF marketing and productivity
components on livestock production, rural milk consumption, general household
nutrition levels, incomes, rural employment, price impacts, general rural
welfare, and farmer attitudes. Under the project, NDDB's program for field
M&E would be substantially strengthened. To this effect, a specialized M&E
division would be established in NDDB with a small professional staff of
agricultural/s3cial economists, statisticians and livestock specialists. As
presently, the actual field enumeration and detailed supervision would be
conducted at Federation and MPU levels, with the assistance, where possible,
of agricultural universities and local government staff. NDDB's M&E division
would be responsible for planning and designing field surveys, providing
advice and training to Federation and MPU staff, spot field checking of the
reliability of data and analysis of results. To assist particularly in
survey design, sampling procedurcs and statistical analysis, a contract,
involving an aggregate of about 15 months of visits by a M&E specialist,
would also be arranged, and funding of short-term M&E courses for key staff
would be provided. Additionally, the NDDB Board along with independent
distinguished academics/experts, would annually review the M&E program to
discuss methodology and results and suggest future work priorities.
3.28    The currently envisaged work program would involve continuation of
NDDB's surveys (Society Village Enumerations), a substantially upgraded
annual Rural Household Survey (including surveying of households in non-
cooperative villages) through which most of the dynamic features of OF's
rural impact would be assessed, surveys related to urban communities, con-
sumer preferences and welfare, and a variety of special studies to evaluate
particular technologies or economic and social features. In addition, to
obtain a more in-depth assessment of the socio-economic impact of OF, a
socio-economic study by qualified consultants is planned for the southern
states, which now make up 25% of OF's milk procurement. Costs of the
project's M&E component amount to about Rs 20 million (US$1.5 million).
3.29    Market Promotion.  Until recently, the chronic scarcity of milk
resulted in OF being mainly concerned with the technical and logistical
requirements for physical release of milk in urban centers, with less regard
to market analysis, promotional measures and convenience retailing. While
market potential for OF's incremental milk procurement is very large in
aggregate terms (para 7.01), in regional and metro cities where OF already
has a significant share of local consumption, marketing efforts would need to
be stepped up and market promotion for new dairy products would also be
required (para 7.02). To lead these initiatives, NDDB has decided to estab-
lish a Marketing Directorate headed by an executive level marketing profes-
sional with a small (about eight) group of fully trained marketing
professionals. This would be supported by a project financed budget of about
Rs 22 million (US$1.6 million), including funds for consultants and training.
The main focus would be to undertake market analyses and develop marketing



-26-
strategies and promotional programs oriented, in particular, towards expand-
ing liquid milk marketing and introducing profitable milk products. The work
program would be geared primarily towards assisting the Federations and MPUs
in: recruiting marketing staff; training; development of promotion and
training materials; providing technical advice; and designing marketing
studies, strategies and action plans. Where appropriate, Federations would
be encouraged to hire local management institutes or marketing research
firms. The NDDB Directorate would also be responsible for national level
monitoring and analysis of OF marketing strategy. It is anticipated that the
Marketing Directorate would eventually be relocated in NCDFI.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
4.01    The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
amounts to Rs 9,150 million (US$678 million). The foreign exchange component
is estimated at Rs 690 million (US$51 million) or 8% of project costs.
Estimated duties and taxes on items not procured through international com-
petitive bidding amount to Rs 175 million (US$13 million); international
compeLitive bidding (ICB) is tax exempt. Project costs are based on 1987
prices and are derived from actual NDDB investment data collected from the
participating states. Project costs cover investment costs under OF III for
processing capacity and milk marketing systems and for establishing incremen-
tal farmer production enhancement facilities, training, research and
consultancies. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to these
costs. Price contingencies are based on projected annual inflation rates for
local costs of 8% per annum in 1987/88 and 1988/89, 7% in 1989/90 and 6% per
annum from 1990/91 to 1993/94, and for foreign costs of 5.8% in 1987/88, 5.6%
in 1988/89, 5.4% in 1989/90 and 1.0% per annum from 1990/91 to 1993/94.
Costs are summarized in Table 4.1 with further details at Annex 1.



-27-
Table 4.1: PROJECT COSTS
%    % Total
Rs Million                   US$ Million        Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Cost
Establishment of
village cooperatives          798.6    54.3    852.9    59.2        4.0    63.2         6        12
Productivity enhancement
Cattle feed plants            142.2    12.7    154.9    10.6         0.9    11.5        8         2
Urea/molasses block plants  36.5         3.5     40.0       2.7     0.3       3.0       9         1
Seed processing plants          9.2      0.9      10.1      0.6      0.1     0.7       10         0
Silvipasture & fodder dev.  80.4         0.4      80.8      6.0        -     6.0        1         1
Semen production               61.9      5.5     67.4       4.6      0.4      5.0       9         1
Field Al program              110.6    14.4    125.0        8.2      1.0     9.2       13         2
Sire evaluation                64.0      2.9     66.9       4.8      0.2      5.0       5         1
Veterinary services            57.5      3.8      61.3      4.2      0.3      4.5       7         1
Bulls prod. & procurement   31.4         1.8      33.2      2.3      0.2     2.5        6         1
FMD control                   160.7      0.3    161.0    11.9          -    11.9        -         2
Sub-total                 754.4    46.2    800.6    55.9         3.4    59.3        6        12
Processing capacity          2,638.1   257.4  2,895.5   195.4    19.1   214.5             9        42
Milk marketing systems        1,268.2   118.5  1,386.7    93.9         8.8   102.7        9        20
NMC & storage                   462.0    57.1    519.1    34.3         4.2    38.5       11         8
Inst. strengthening & training
Market promotion               15.6      6.1      21.7      1.1      0.5      1.6      28         1
Training                      260.8    11.2    272.0    19.3         0.8    20.1        4         4
Research, studies, M&E,
consultants                 49.4    54.7    104.1        3.6      4.1      7.7      52         1
Sub-total                 325.8    72.0    397.8    24.0         5.4    29.4       18         6
Total Baseline Costs        6,247.1   605.5  6,852.6   462.7    44.9   507.6             9       100
Physical contingencies    321.7    31.4    353.1    23.8           2.3    26.1        9         5
Price contingencies       1,890.0    53.8  1,943.8   140.0         4.0   144.0        3        28
Total Project Costs         8,458.8   690.7  9,149.5   626.5    51.2   677.7             8       133
Project Financing
4.02    The project would be financed by a proposed Bank Loan of US$200 million
and an IDA Credit of SDR 121.2 million (US$160 million equivalent), amounting in
total to US$360 million equivalent (Rs 4,860 million), which would be equal to
about 53% of the project costs. The remainder (Rs 4,290 million or US$318
million) would be financed by NDDB's resources, which are expected to be supple-
mented by commodity aid (skim milk powder and butter oil) from the EEC supplied
on a grant basis and equivalent to about US$150 million (Rs 2,025 million). In
the event that EEC commodity aid/funding is not forthcoming, COI, directly or



-28-
through NDDB, will finance the full counterpart funding required for the
project. The financing plan, outlined by main components and by items of
expenditure, is shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(Rs million)
a/
Total    Bank/IDA   NDDB
Project Component
Processing capacity                      3,857      2,420      1,437
Feed and fodder                            372        156        216
Animal breeding                            420        206        214
Milk marketing systems                   1,895      1,014        881
Support to village coops.                1,141        327        814
Market, training, research studies         517        186        331
NMG/storage                                688        476        212
Disease control/production
enhancement                               260         75        185
Total:  Rs Million                    9,150      4,860      4,290
:  US$ Million                    678        360        318
Expenditure Items
Civil works                              2,358        681      1,677
Plant machinery and equipment            4,091      2,786      1,3G5
Lab. and tech. equipment                   981        743        238
Vehicles and tankers                       466        324        142
Establishment of DCSs                      232         58        174
Training, studies & consultants            274         79        195
Incremental salaries
and supplies                              748        189        559
Total:  Rs Million                    9,150      4,860     4,290
US$ Million                    678        360        318
a/ Including generated funds from commodity aid.
4.03    Bank/IDA Financing Terms.   The Bank/IDA loan/credit would be to GOI
on standard terms. As under ND I, GOI would onlend to NDDB at 7-1/2% per annum,
with a 15-year repayment period, including three years' moratorium for principal
and interest, and would carry the foreign exchange risk. NDDB's new onlending
rate of 10% to the cooperatives would provide NDDB an operating margin of 2-1/2%
compared to 1% under the previous project. The increased margin would allow
NDDB to build up cash reserves with a view towards eliminating future financial
dependence on grant aid.
4.04    OF Financing Terms.  NDDB would finance properly approved sub-projects
by way of a combination of loans and grants, the terms of which were agreed
during appraisal and have already been officially announced effective from
October 1, 1987. Interest on long term investments has been increased to 10%
per annum (previously 8-1/2%) which is consistent with other comparable rural
lending rates. Lending for working capital will be at least 1-1/2% above the



-29-
rate for investment lending. Sub-loans under the project will have a moratorium
period for principal and interest of three years, with a repayment period of 15
years (compared to the previous moratorium period of five years and repayment
over 20 years). As at present, investment sub-loans would be guaranteed by the
states. However, NDDB has now agreed as an option, to accept mortgages as
security where the individual cooperative is viable and presents minimal risks.
This option would allow individual MPUs to operate under the OF pattern where an
agreement with the state may still be outstanding.
4.05    NDDB's financing of investments for constructing and equipping of
processing facilities and support services would continue on the basis of 70%
loan and 30% grant; the full cost of the investment being accounted for by the
borrower and the grant added to equity to form the farmers' contribution.
However, a 100% loan would apply to investments for high margin by-products
manufacture. Assurances were obtained at negotiations to confirm that NDDB
would follow the above financing terms.
Procurement
4.06    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3.  Contracts under
ICB are anticipated to amount to about 38% of project costs with those under
local competitive bidding (LCB) amounting co about 47%.



-30-
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
a/
US$ Million
ICB      LCB       Other     Total
Civil Works                                   -       167.3                 167.3
(41.3)               (41.3)
Turnkey Contracts                           60.0                            60.0
(60.0)                          (60.0)
Plant Machinery and Equipment              124.0      120.1       6.2      250.3
(124.0)    (30.1)    (1.5)    (155.6)
Lab and Technical Equipment                 49.2       19.7       3.9        72.8
(49.2)     (5.0)    (0.8)       (55.0)
Vehicles and Tankers                        20.6       13.8        -         34.4
(20.6)     (3.4)                (24.0)
Materials and Equipment for DCS                -         -       17.3        17.3
establishment                                                  (4.3)      (4.3)
Training, Studies, Consultants                1.1        -       19.0        20.1
(1.1)               (4.7)       (5.8)
Miscellaneous Equipment, materials            -          -       55.5        55.5
and Incremental Salaries and animals                          (14.0)     (14.0)
Total                                      254.9      320.9    101.9       677.7
(254.9)    (79.8)   (25.3)    (360.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses refer to estimated Bank/IDA funding amounts.
4.07    Civil works'contracts would be individually small (generally less than
US$5 million) and dispersed in time and place and would, therefore, be let on
the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Construction, equipping and commissioning of two large
dairies with an estimated cost of US$30 million each (para 3..9) would be
through turnkey arrangements under ICB to take advantage of technological
innovations to be incorporated. Major items of machinery and equipment would
be bulked and procured by ICB (in total about US$194 million) in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Local manufacturers would receive a margin of preference in
bid evaluation of 15% or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Minor
items of machinery and equipment, and materials for the DCSs and MPUs in pack-
ages individually valued at less than US$200,000 and up to a global maximum of
US$155 million, would be procured by LCB advertised locally in accordance with
NDDB procedures which have been adjudged satisfactory to the Bank. As there is
adequate representation of local suppliers and local agents of foreign
suppliers, competition is assured. For individually small items of equipment or



-31-
materials that can be procured locally and that cannot conveniently be packaged
under LCB in amounts exceeding US$25,000, local comparative shopping procedures
satisfactory to the Bank would be used (total expenditures to be under US$15
million). For plant construction through to initial operations, NDDB provides a
comprehensive engineering service to MPUs and Federations covering detailed
design and preparation of bidding documents, assistance with bid evaluation,
supervision of contractors, plant inspection and assistance with on the job
personnel training and initial plant operations. NDDB charges a fee of about 5%
for these services, depending on the costs of each project and the services
provided. As these arrangements work well and fees are reasonable, they would
be continued, though qualified private engineering firms would also be
encouraged to provide such services where feasible. Consultancy services for
other project components (about Rs 65 million or US$5 million for local and
foreign consultants) would be engaged in accordance with Bank guidelines. Prior
review of contracts for goods and civil wcrks would be limited to contracts
expected to be in excess of US$5 million in the case of civil works and in
excess of US$1 million in the case of goods (representing in total about 45%
of Bank funding), or where specifically requested by the Bank, as NDDB has
developed over time a sophisticated and standardized system for preparation of
bid documents and bid analysis. All bidding documents and analyses would be
retained by NDDB for at least two years for possible inspection during Bank
supervision missions. The above procurement arrangements cover the whole
project and would apply irrespective of the funding sources (IBRD/IDA, GOI/NDDB,
EEC) involved.
Disbursements
4.08    The Bank would disburse against the following:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) for machinery, equipment, materials and civil works procured under
ICB procedures;
(b) 100% of expenditures for consultancy services and overseas training;
(c) 25% of expenditures for civil works procured under LCB procedures; and
(d) 25% of NDDB expenditures for Federations, MPUs and DCSs establishment,
production enhancement costs, training, studies, incremental supplies
and other costs, not included in (a) and (b) above.
Disbursements would be fully documented except for disbursements against expen-
ditures under (d) above and against expenditures related to contracts for goods,
civil works and services under (a), (b) and (c), each valued at less than
US$500,000 equivalent. Such disbursements would be made on the basis of cer-
tified statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs
would be retained by the participating institutions for at least two years after
the bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the loan account was made and be available for inspection by
Bank supervision missions and the auditors.
4.09    The proposed Bank/IDA loan/credit is expected to be committed over six
and one half years and disbursed over seven years. Based on OF's experience and
recent performance, implementation over a shorter time period is technically



-32-
feasible but is anticipated to require up to seven years as a result of the more
stringent investment criteria to be applied under the project and associated
NDDB onlending conditionalities. ND I had similar plant investment dimensions
and was disbursed over a seven year period with rapid implementation over the
final four years during which 85% of project disbursements were made. Under
ND II the pace of initial disbursements can be expected to be faster than under
ND I and includes retroactive financing of approved contracts. A schedule of
estimated disbursements is at Annex 2 and is consistent with the disbursement
profiles for agricultural credit and IDF type operations in Asia.
4.10    Retroactive Financing and Special Account.  The Bank/IDA would retroac-
tively finance project expenses incurred before signing of the loan/credit
agreements, up Lu a limit of US$36 milliLa, and following the procurement
guidelines in para 4.07 above. These would mostly be on contracts signed afte.
the date of project appraisal (April 14, 1987), but also include US$9.4 million
of expenditures incurred from January 1, 1986 to April 13, 1987 against
specified ICB contracts for key equipment purchases under the OF program. These
expenditures are consistent with ND II project objectives and
procurement/disbursement arrangements and have been incurred to maintain OF
program progress between closure of ND I and appraisal of ND II. In order to
facilitate timely payments of project costs, a Special Account amounting to
about US$30 million equivalent (SDR 22.7 million) would be established in the
Reserve Bank of India. Replenishments to the Special Account would be made
quarterly or when the Account is drawn down by about 50% of its initial deposit,
whichever occurs first.
Reporting Requirements
4.11    NDDB has developed an efficient system of timely reporting, including
monthly reports for internal usage and quarterly progress reports also submitted
to the Bank and EEC. This system would be continued in the future except that
biannual reports would replace the quarterly reports. The biannual progress
reports would summarize project performance, disbursements by project categories
and types of expenses, physical achievements and production performance at
primary levels, and would include some adaptations to help better monitor the
project, including summaries of progress in institutional development. An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that such reports would be submitted
to the Bank within 90 days after the end of each semester.
Accounting, Budgeting and Auditing
4.12    Accounting and Budgeting.  While the basic accounting systems of NDDB
are satisfactory, strengthening is required in NDDB's portfolio analysis to
enable better portfolio management and more efficient delivery of technical
assistance to borrowers. In particular, NDDB would analyze sub-loans and grants
to account for the main categories of expenditures financed and make disburse-
ments of sub-loans and grants on a reimbursement basis, with necessary advances
separately accounted for and controlled. NDDB prepares annual budgets, annual
accounts and project accounts, which together with the supporting documentation
will provide a comprehensive record of the proposed project. The annual budgets
would be submitted to the Bark for information prior to commencement of the NDDB
fiscal year.



-33-
4.13    Auditing.  Both NDDB's and IDC's accounts have been audited during
recent years by independent external auditors and the Controller and Auditor
General of India, and all audit reports on the financial statements have been
unqualified. The existing audit arrangements would continue, and an audit
satisfactory to the Bank would be made of the project accounts, SOEs submitted
to the Bank, and of the financial statements of NDDB for each fiscal year. The
audits would be carried out in accordance with sound auditing principles consis-
tently applied by independent and qualified auditors. Certified copies of the
annual financial statements with project accounts and SOEs, together with the
auditors' report, which would comment separately on the SOEs, would be submitted
to the Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
Adequate records would also be maintained by the sub-borrowers, identifying all
transactions pertaining to NDDB's financing, which would be audited annually and
submitted to NDDB within six months after the close of each fiscal year, and
which would be retained by NDDB for possible review by Bank supervision
missions. The Special Fund Account in the Reserve Bank of India would also be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and an audited
statement of the accounts and the auditor's report would be forwarded to the
Bank no later than six months after each fiscal year. Assurances relative to
the above were obtained during negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Implementation
5.01    As under ND I, NDDB (now combining the former NDDB and IDC structures,
paras 1.14 to 1.17) would have overall responsibility for implementing the
project. NDDB would plan and steer OF development, provide technical assistance
and procurement services to the cooperative structures, approve state plans for
OF cooperative development, appraise individual investment proposals, provide
funding for approved sub-projects, and monitor and guide OF cooperative sector
development in each state and progress of the individual sub-projects. Field
implementation would be the direct responsibility of the respective Federations
and MPUs, following NDDB financing criteria and procedures and with technical
support, as necessary, from NDDB. Additionally, NCDFI's role will be gradually
expanded during the project period (para 5.10). (Charts 31119.1 to 31119.3 for
organizational structures and an Implementation Schedule.) The recently enacted
(October 1987) merger of NDDB and IDC described at para 1.14 has retained the
key management features of the previous bodies and fully incorporated the finan-
cial structure of the former IDC with NDDB (transfer of all assets, liabilities
and privileges of the erstwhile IDC into the new NDDB). This merger will allow
for some improvements in efficiency and includes relevant features to maintain
managerial and financial autonomy and appropriate internal management and con-
trol procedures (para 5.09).
5.02    Planning, funding, and implementation would center around three proces-
ses coordinated by NDDB: state plans for global planning, appraisals of
individual loans, and monitoring and supervision during implementation.
Formerly, appraisal was limited to the level of the state plans ana did not
provide sufficient focus on the viability of specific sub-investments. Under
OF III, NDDB will appraise individual investments based on rigorous criteria and
procedures which would serve to tighten control on the quality of investments



-34-
(para 5.04). Approval of state plans and appraisal and supervision of
itndividual investments would also include review of the institutional develop-
ment features at para 5.05. Monitoring and supervision capabilities at all
levels would be enhanced through adoption of Uniform Accounting (UAS) and
Management Information Systems (MIS). The UAS standardizes accounting
categories and responsibility centers and emphasizes the management accounting
approach to decision making. The MIS links the financial information with
related physical targets, highlighting key indicators and identifying actual
perfoimance against planned indicators. Full implementation of the two systems
is expected during the project period. Some additional recruitment and
training, particularly in the fields of financial and business management and
marketing, would be undertaken by NDDB and the cooperatives to cater for these
increased management needs.
Planning
5.03    As at present, state plans would be prepared by the Federations with
assistance from NDDB. These plans would identify investment and development
needs and would take into consideration existing dairy processing capacity,
marketing prospects, milk availability, productivity enhancement measures, and
the potential for further development in all these areas. The plans would
include programs agreed with the Federations and state governments for transfer-
ring existing state-owned and controlled dairy operations to farmers' ownership
and control under the OF program, as well as practical proposals for dovetailing
of state and cooperative sector dairy promotion services. While these plans
have previously been prepared to cover a five-year period, in the future they
would be reviewed and updated on an annual Lasis. Onice these plans are approved
by the states concerned and by NDDB, they would then become the blueprint for
preparation and implementation of investments. To facilitate forward planning,
annually updated state plans applicable to the forthcoming fiscal year (commenc-
ing April) would normally be submitted for NDDB review by December 31 of each
year and would also be made available to Bank supervision missions. Assurances
to the above effects were obtained during negotiations.
Sub-loan Appraisal Procedures
5.04    State Federatioris would be required to prepare, with any necessary
guidance from NDDB, an individual evaluation for each investment sub-project
proposed (e.g., a MPU dairy expansion with associated infrastructure such as
chilling centers, DCS establishment and productivity enhancement measures, a
cattle feed plant, etc.). This individual evaluation would be appraised by NDDB
taking into consideration the following main criteria:
(a)  Financial.  The bottom line criterion would be that the proposed invest-
ment is financially viable. The estimated financial rate of return
would be at least 12% and the investment cash flow would be supportable
by the institution's existing and projected financial position (short
term coverage of cash outlays, capability to service and repay its
indebtness and to earn profits sufficient to maintain equity in real
terms);
(b)  Commercial.  Analysis of available markets for fresh milk and intended
milk products, adequacy of prices, a marketing plan, and prospects for
expansion of milk production;



-35-
(c) Production Enhancement. Detailed proposals for productivity enhancement
(veterinary, genetic upgrading, feed, fodder, animal husbandry
extension), including a practical, plan for dovetailing of cooperative
and state services and facilities;
(d) Engineering. Construction and equipment specifications, availability of
land and utilities; and
(e) Managerial and Organizational. Availability of trained staff and/or a
training program, satisfactory internal control systems, including
accounting and auditing, and an adequate management information system.
To facilitate satisfactory establishment and subsequent monitoring of appraisal
procedures, NDDB would submit to the Bank, for review and approval before sanc-
tioning under the project, the first three sub-project appraisals. Also, all
sub-project appraisals would be retained by NDDB for possible review by Bank
supervision missions, and NDDB would advise the Bank on a six monthly basis of
all projects coming up for appraisal. Assurances and agreements relative to the
above criteri, and review procedures were obtained during negotiations.
Institutional Developmenl
5.05    Approval of state plans and appraisal and monitoring of individual
investments would include review of OF's institutional development. As a first
step towards achievement of the institutional adjustments required, in mid 1987
NDDB, in consultation with GOI, informed all state governments of the following
OF model criteria to be adopted by a cooperative, or to be in meaningful
progress towards adoption, as a condition of NDDB funding under the project:
(a) Adoption by Federations, MPUs and DCSs of the OF cooperative model
bylaws to ensure democratic and accountable operations;
(b) Elected boards of producer members for DCSs, MPUs and Federations;
(c) Autonomy for the Federations and MPUs in the appointment of professional
management, employment of staff, pricing and marketing;
(d) Ownership and management of plants (dairies, chilling centers, feed
plants, etc.) by the MPUs, or in areas where the plant serves a central
purpose (city dairy or central feed plant) by the Federations; and
(e) Proper internal control procedures and accounting and auditing of the
Federation, MPUs and DCSs involved, including a system whereby this
information is regularly reviewed by the respective Boards and General
Body Meetings.
5.06    Responses relative to the onlending conditions above were received by
NDDB prior to negotiations from 21 states and union territories (representing
over 95% of the OF program), and were reviewed and discussed during
negotiations. It was agreed that these responses, which were favorable as
regards general acceptance of the principles above, nevertheless required for
the majority of states and union territories a supplementary detailing along
with specified dates for achieving or completing achievement of the OF model



-36-
features. The agreed next step was for the concerned states and NDDB to prepare
more detailed schedules for implementing required adjustments to the OF model.
In the few states where cooperative institutional and policy features already
nearly comply with these conditions, rapid adaptations in remaining areas would
be expected. In other states, rapid progress would also be required for
eligibility of NDDB funding, but the extent of the changes required will neces-
sitate a phased adjustment. An acceptable plan of adjustments, including target
dates and to be largely completed by mid-1989, would form part of the individual
state plans and would be monitored and approved by NDDB on a six monthly basis
and, specifically, on the occasion of each sub-loan appraisal. Adequate perfor-
mance against these targets would be a condition of NDDB Board approval of
sub-loans. Assurances and agreements were obtained at negotiations relative to
the application of these onlending conditionalities.
Role of Apex Institutions
5.07    NDDB would trdin the composite spearhead teams for assisting Federations
and MPUs in planning and organizing the development of new and existing
milksheds, the first step in implementing the project cycle.  The Federations
would prepare, with the technical assistance and guidance of NDDB, individual
investment plans for sub-projects previously identified under the state plans.
During implementation of sub-projects, NDDB acts as technical consultant, with
its engineering wing playing a lead role during plant construction and
commissioning.  NDDB would also continue to assist the operations of the par-
ticipating institutions through provision of technical assistance on managerial,
financial, marketing, and animal husbandry aspects. Additional support would be
provided through NDDB's research and training programs (Chapter III).
5.08    In its investment banking role, NDDB would cinance properly appraised
and approved sub-projects. NDDB would be responsible for sub-loan appraisal
and all investment sub-loans would be approved by its Board. Lending limits
for working capital would also require NDDB Board approval. To fulfill its
appraisal and monitoring responsibilities, NDDB would, in addition to its
strengthened sub-loan appraisal procedures (para 5.04), develop a new portfolio
management department separated from its appraisal and disbursement function.
This department would mo.litor the receipt of payments falling due for interest
and principal. However, as importantly, it would monitor the financial perfor-
mance of sub-borrowers (MPUs and Federations) against their annual budgets and
performance agreed at appraisal. It would insist on timely periodic financial
information and annual audited accounts (para 4.13), along with explanations for
significant variances. Financially related problems would be quickly
identified, and the loan department would work closely with the technical
department which would offer assistance to the sub-borrowers where necessary.
The degree to which the sub-borrowers introduce necessary remedial action would
influence subsequent NDDB financial support. Disbursement procedures would be
separated from project monitoring, with more clearly defined limits and lines of
authority.
5.09    The recent merger of NDDB and IDC (paras 1.14 and 5.01), which will also
include relocation of the former IDC's offices from Baroda to Anand (NDDB
headquarters), will simplify departmental communications and reduce duplication
of administrative and some operational work. It will also serve to formalize
the past and very necessary close cooperation between the former NDDB's and
IDC's functions, which were as much the result of close personal working rela-



-37-
tions as of structural linkages. Some reductions in administrative staffing
associated with the merger are already being planned. The former departmental
division of operational responsibilities between NDDB and IDC is, however,
considered useful and is being largely retained in the departmental structuring
of the merged organization. In particular, the present separation of departmen-
tal responsibilities for planning and promoting investments and assisting
cooperatives in their technical and institutional development (the former NDDB's
role), and for evaluating, approving, financing and monitoring investments
(IDC's former role) will be retained and an assurance to this effect was
obtained during negotiations. Similarly, the former IDC's and NDDB's basic
financial structure and assets have been fully maintained by the incorporation
of all of IDC's and the former NDDB's assets and liabilities into the new
structure. Additionally, provisions under the 1987 NDDB Act provide sufficient
indications that the new NDDB will. enjoy no less a level of managerial and
financial autonomy as formerly. an assurance was obtained during negotiations
that GOI would (within the provisions of the Act) continue to ensure that NDDB
would be afforded managerial and financial autonomy.
5.10    In accordance with normal cooperative management practices, NCDFI is
intended, over time, to increasingly assume the policy making and cooperative
coordination role currently handled by NDDB, and to eventually take over manage-
ment of the NMG. The progression will necessarily be phased in accordance with
the build-up of representation, experience and involvement of democratically
elected Federation chairmen on NCDFI's board, and is being actively encouraged
by NDDB through gradual strengthening of NCDFI secretariat staff. NCDFI's
constitution and bylaws already fully incorporate the structure and mandate
eventually anticipated for NCDFI.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Financial Situation of NDDB
6.01    NDDB's current and projected financial situation is presented at Annex 5
based on analysis of the former IDC and NDDB. Paras 6.02 and 6.03 provide
appraisal assessments and projections based on their situations prior to the
October 1987 merger, and figures can be combined for an overall assessment.
Overall, the new NDDB is a financially strong institution with current equity at
US$90 million.
6.02    NDDB.  At appraisal, NDDB was found to be a financially strong institu-
tion and was projected to increase its equity from its end-1986 position of
Rs 150 million (US$11 million) to Rs 240 million (US$18 million) by 1992
(Annex 5, Table 3). NDDB's main source of income, professional fees, was
projected to continue to be in excess of its establishment costs, and expenses
in research and development would be directly linked to grants becoming
available. The main area of financial concern was for NDDB to ensure that its
staff size was monitored and adjusted as necessary to reflect any significant
reductions that might arise in IDC's future investment program and the cor-
responding need for technical assistance. Under the new NDDB, the dimensions of
NDDB's technical assistance program to cooperatives will continue to need
monitoring to ensure that costs remain reasonable relative to its investment
portfolio.



-38-
6.03    The appraisal assessment of the erstwhile IDC also showed a strong
finanicial institution with IDC's equity at end-1986 valued at Rs 1,100 million
(US$80 million). IDC has consistently earned sufficient margin on its lending
to cover its costs-of-funds and its operacing costs. Nevertheless, the growth
in IDC's accumulated profits has been largely due to interest earned on bank
balances, arising from commodity aid funds. The projected financial statements
during the project period (Annex 5, Table 2) show this aspect of the new NDDB's
operations to be growing in strength, with its equity estimated at
Rs 4,000 million (US$300 million) by 1994 and a cash balance of Rs 430 million
(US$32 million), the increase in equity arising from accumulated profits during
the project period. The increased level of profits is mainly related to the
increased size of the loan portfolio and the increase in the margin earned by
NDDB on the Bank/IDA funds channelled through GOI; 2-1/2% compared to 1% under
ND I. Development expenses would continue to be financed through the accumu-
lated OF funds, with interest on the unutilized balance of the fund continuing
to boost the new NDDB's profits. However, while NDDB would be earning substan-
tial book profits, these profits would not be fully reflected in its cash
balance until after the project period. The change in the repayment period
requiring cooperative loans to be repaid over 15 years (formerly 20 years) with
the moratorium on the payment of principal and interest red-ced from five years
to three years, will allow a faster generation of cash resources in the future.
The increased level of profits and cash balance will be necessary to allow NDDB
to become self-sustainable in the long term, eventually eliminating the need for
grant aid.
6.04    NDDB's loan portfolio, which would increase to about Rs 12,000 million
(US$900 million) by end 1993-94, constitutes over 90% of its total assets. This
includes NDDB's provision of working capital sub-loans, financed from its own
resources, amounting to about Rs 970 million (US$70 million), and which would be
largely secured by the hypothecation of inventories. Because of the dominance
of the loan portfolio in NDDB's financial situation, NDDB's projected strength
and profitability is largely dependent on the viability of the borrowing
institutions. While the majority of loans are guaranteed by the states con-
cerned or secured by the assets financed, the conversion of these
guarantees/securities into cash would not be easy. The key to NDDB's continued
strength must, therefore, be the financial viability of the borrowing
institutions. NDDB would therefore tighten financial appraisal criteria and
play a vigorous role in monitoring cooperative operations to help ensure their
success (paras 5.04, 5.05 and 5.08). Good financial planning and programming
would be a key requisite for NDDB's continued successful operation. With
respect to its non-dairy operations (para 1.16), an assurance was obtained
during negotiations that NDDB would continue to keep accounts, funding, finan-
cial obligations and financial management for these activities entirely separate
from its OF activities.
Grants and Subsidies
6.05    All grants and subsidies provided under the OF program (Annex 6) are
consistent with subsidy levels provided under other agricultural and rural
development projects in India. In most state and central government programs,
subsidies of between 25% to 50% are available. Under the OF program, the grants
and subsidies would support the investments required to continue the modern-
ization of an industry based on farmer owned institutions, for which farmers'



-39-
own resources are insufficient to make adequate contributions to equity. The
grant element in investment funding would be considered as the farmers' equity
contribution to the investment program. There would be no NDDB subsidization of
operating costs which are financed by the cooperatives. Collection, processing
and marketing costs are covered in the consumer pricing structure, and extension
services are provided by the MPUs/Federations currently at a charge to farmers
of Rs 0.08 per liter of milk supplied (extension services are normally financed
by GOI). The largest subsidy outlay relates to the 30% investment grants on
processing and marketing facilities (para 4.05). While continuance of a grant
financing element on investment costs is supportable by NDDB in the medium term
(see below), measures to harden lending terms and progressively reduce net
subsidies will be taken under ND II. The following measures were k?ed during
negotiations:
(a) a hardening of NDDB onlending terms to cooperatives made effective from
October 1, 1987 (interest rate from 8-1/2 to 10% on investment loans and
to 11-1/2% for working capital loans, moratorium period reduced from 5
to 3 years and loan repayment period from 20 to 15 years (para 4.04);
(b) financing for high margin dairy product lines would be at 100% loan
without any grant element;
(c) charges for veterinary and artificial insemination services would be
progressively increased to cover the costs to cooperatives by the end
of the project period (paras 3.10 and 3.15);
(d) charges for foot and mouth disease (FMD) vaccine would be progressively
increased to ensure full cost recovery by the fourth year after intro-
duction of vaccination in any given milkshed (para 3.11);
(e) operating costs of community fodder production would be recovered to
a level of about 50% by the end of the project period;
(f) commodity aid import prices to be the same as sale prices of domesti-
cally produced reconstitution products (para 7.08); and
(g) remaining subsidies on the prices of indigenous dairy commodities would
be phased out by December 31, 1991 (para 7.08).
These measures would result in the overall level of subsidies on investments
falling from about 45% of current investment costs to about 35Z in the later
years of the prcject. As importantly, the project's focus on achieving finan-
cial viability tor those cooperatives not yet earning profits, would stem the
need for operating subsidies financed by state governments against loss making
enterprises (paras 6.06 to 6.08). In the longer term, further measures to
reduce NDDB grant financing are expected to be necessary. At present, invest-
ment grants and subsidies are charged by NDDB to its OF accumulated funds
account built up from the proceeds of EEC aid commodities. At the end of the
project, it is estimated that this account would have declined to a balance of
about Rs 1,200 million (US$90 million), at which stage additional reductions in
subsidies may be required if NDDB is to be financially independent of further
grant financing through commodity aid. With the expected strengthening of
cooperative profitability under the project, this should be feasible as finan-
cial returns from dairy investments are good (para 6.10) and cash flows without



-40-
grant element financing should be supportable by well established and capital-
ized cooperative enterprises. During negotiations confirmation and assurances
were obtained on the above measures to reduce the level of subsidies.
Financial Situation of Participating Borrowers
6.06    About 50% of participating borrowers (Federations, MPUs and city
dairies) currently earn an annual profit, with the other 50% earning either a
cash profit (i.e. excluding depreciation and interest accrued but not yet due)
or varying levels of losses. However, there is a definite trend of improved
profits, with many cooperatives still in their initial three years of
operations, normally expecting to break even in year four. In addition to their
milk operations, several states have non-profitable cattle feed operations,
usually the result of inadequate pricing and underutilization.
6.07    Overall, it is notable that those cooperatives with the strongest link
to the OF type of operation, with substantial farmer involvement and independ-
ence from state governments, have the more profitable operations. ODerations
with strong state government control frequently suffer from inadequate selling
prices, overstaffing, high transportation costs, and less motivated management.
While losses are generally compensated by the relevant state governments, com-
pensation is usually tied to cash losses, ignoring the aspects of depreciation
and interest not yet due for payment. The former long moratorium of five years
for principal and interest (now reduced to three years) encouraged the above as
did the provision to city dairies of subsidized skim milk powder financed
through IDC's OF fund (para 7.07). Other important causes for cooperative
losses have been:
(a) Inadequate throughput due to insufficient development if milk procure-
ment and marketing potential;
(b) Insufficient attention to development of liquid milk sales, which are
more profitable than powder production, and development of high margin
milk products; and
(c) Inefficient conversion of surplus milk into skim milk powder caused by
the uneconomic size of processing facilities, and the need to revise the
pricing of powder to reflect market value and production costs.
6.08    As described in Chapters IV and V, the proposed project would target
the above problems. In addition to the tightened appraisal procedures and
investment viability criteria (para 5.04), the most fundamental change would
be that, as a condition for sub-project financing, the states would be required
to progressively allow participating operations to adopt the OF type of
ownership/management (para 5.05), with freedom to determine adequate selling
prices, select their own management and the most appropriate level of staffing.
Where the states find it necessary to restrict pricing, then adequate compensa-
tion must be made to cover all costs and to provide a reasonable profit. NDDB,
through its regional offices and representation on the boards of the participat-
ing borrowers, would provide technical assistance and guidance, particularly in
developing entrepreneurship. Sub-borrowers would introduce annual
planning/budgeting, supported by good accounting systems, adequate internal
control procedures, and timely and efficient audits. Quick identification of
problems and the introduction of remedial action would be a key goal.



-41-
6.09    A common weakness of farmer managed operations is their primary desire
for distributing profits as they are identified, usually through increases in
the producer price of milk or bonuses on milk supplied. To encourage the
retaining of profits to build up equity, an assurance was provided at nego-
tiations that NDDB would require participating cooperative institutions to
appropriate annually from net operating income an amount necessary to maintain
equity in real ter-c before profit distributions (bonuses) to members. Also,
cattle feed plants in future would be managed so as to become self sustainable.
The provision for equity build-up, as discussed above, would apply, and prices
would be set following commercial principles. Additionally, given the chronic
past problems of building feed plants substantially in excess of subsequent
utilization levels, it was agreed during negotiations that NDDB approval of new
cattle feed plants or expansions of existing plants would be made only when
utilization analysis (level of existing demand and projected incremental demand
by the proposed construction completion date) indicated that the additional
capacity would be a viable investment.
Financial Projections of Representative Investment Models
6.10    Project investments would range over a variety of new and expanding
processing capacities and feed mills located throughout the country. Annex 7
shows representative models of typical plant investments expected and for an
average DCS. All cash flows are satisfactory with annual profits within two to
four years of the investment and with financial rates of return ranging from 15%
to 20% (28% in the case of the projected expans.on program for a city dairy).
VII. MARKETING, PRICING AND TRADE POLICY
Marketing
7.01    OF milk procurement would increase under the project from an average
of 8.6 mlpd in 1987 to 13.7 mlpd by 1994, a growth of 7% per annum. Based on
current consumption growth rates and demographic trends, aggregate consumption
of milk and milk products is expected to grow, as in the past, at about 4% per
annum, with consumption growth in urban areas of 6 to 7%. 1/ OF's proportional
share of urban markets would therefore expand slightly from its current level of
20%, but satisfaction of urban demand would still require continued growth in
marketing of milk by traditional vendors and other private sector channels
(para 1.10).
7.02    OF marketing (Table 7.1) would be focused on the four metro cities and
about 140 regional cities (predominantly in towns with cooperative dairies). In
the 1980 to 1986 period, OF fresh milk marketing increased by 6.5% per annum in
the metro cities and, as a result of the rapid increase under OF II of the
number of MPUs and associated local urban marketing, by 30% ner annum in the
regional cities. Based on detailed market assessments for f-ach target city,
1/ A review of consumption levels, sources of supply, demand and supply
trends, import levels and related demographic and demand elasticity
features is in Part A of Annex 8.



-42-
sales of fresh milk under OF III are projected to grow by 3.3% per annum in the
metro cities and by 8.3% per annum in regional cities, and would typically reach
40% to 60% of consumption in these urban areas. Additionally, marketing of milk
powder and of high margin milk products would be expanded. 1/ To obtain higher
profitability, maximum use needs to be made by cooperatives of their local
liquid milk markets or sales of high margin milk products, rather than powder
production or sales in the NMG where profitability is lower. Hence, the project
will emphasize improvements in market analysis and market promotion techniques
(para 3.29). Given the projected growth of milk and milk products consumption,
particularly in urban areas, ample scope exists for continued expansion of the
traditional milk vending sector (para 1.10) and for investments in the dairy
industry by other (non-cooperative) private sector enterprises. Traditional
private vendors currently market some 70% of urban milk supply, and about 50
medium and large firms are involved in dairy products manufacture though their
contribution to liquid milk marketing is very small. Both sources are recog-
nized by COI as playing an important role and should continue, along with
cooperative development, in India's future dairy development objectives.
Table 7.1: PROJECT COOPERATIVE MILK MARKETING TARGETS
(in mlpd, liquid milk equivalent)
1987      1994
Average milk procurement                  8.5       13.7
Milk marketing
Fresh milk
Metro cities                        3.2       4.0
Other target cities                 3.6        6.3
Sub-total                       6.8       10.3
Milk powder/powder based products   1.7           2.7
New/fermented milk products            neg.       0.7
Total marketing                     8.5       13.7
Production Costs and Price Levels
7.03    An analysis of farm production, processinig and marketing costs and price
levels, and comparisons with other major producers is at Annex 8. Farm produc-
tion costs in India are lower than EEC and USA production costs due to low feed
and labor costs more than compensating for the lower yields in India. OF
processing and marketing costs are about comparable as throughput efficiency is
fairly similar with higher Indian labor usage compensated by lower Indian labor
costs and capital intensity. Milk collection costs are higher in India as a
l/ Milk powder is used in the lean season for reconstitution to liquid
milk, by the armed services and for baby food and other products. High
margin milk products include fermented products, butter, flavored milk,
yogurt, cheese, ice cream, etc.



-43-
result of the dispersion of DCSs and the distances involved. Resultant total
costs in India of milk production, collection, processing and marketing compare
favorably with EEC and USA costs. Low entrepreneurial margins in India result
in producer and consumer milk prices being lower than in all countries compared,
including New Zealand. Indian milk production as an import substitute is also
competitive with New Zealand export prices (which have the lowest invoice prices
in commercial milk trade). Over the past decade, milk price levels in India
have been reasonably in line with domestic inflation. Producer and consuner
prices have risen at 6 to 7% per annum, rates slightly lower than general and
food index inflation (about 8%), and the rate of increase in consumer prices has
fallen rrom its pre-1970 level of 10% per annum.
Trade and Commodity Aid Policy
7.04    Impact of Existing Policies.  The existing policy, which has been
applied for over a decade, is to continue pressing for self-sufficiency in milk
and milk products in the face of a rapidly growing domestic demand. This is to
be achieved by a continued strong emphasis on dairy sector development, espe-
cially of the OF cooperative dairy sector, coupled with restrictions on imports
of milk powder and butter oil, except imports as necessary in the form (whenever
possible) of commodity aid. Such imports will be used to ensure that prices are
not unduly distorted as a result of imbalances between domestic demand and
supply, especially in the "lean" season, and to generate funds from the sale of
donated commodities to help finance dairy development. The overall impact of
India's dairy commodity aid and trade policy has been very positive. The ban-
ning of imports, 1/ except as commodity aid, has protected the domestic industry
from indiscriminate dumping, and the targeted use of generated funds from com-
modity aid under the OF program has helped build up India's own production
capacity and develop a modern and competitive domestic dairy industry. In
addition to the cooperative sector, now making a significant incremental con-
tribution to urban milk sales and the productivity of its participating
producers as well as increasing its range of manufactured products, this
includes a large number of firms involved in dairy products manufacture
(para 7.02). An effective administration by IDC of the commodity aid program
has minimized the potential disadvantages sometimes resulting from trade
restrictions a-d from the usage of commodity aid. As indicated in para 7.03,
the Indian dai y industry is competitive with other major producers and milk
price levels are generally reasonable. Additionally, domestic production and
consumption have both grown faster than population growth, rationing of milk was
1/ Some commercial imports of dairy commodities are allowed against export
replenishment licenses. Also, where necessary to augment supply and help
maintain reasonable prices during poor production seasons, IDC has
imported commercially. For instance, for the 1987/88 season, orders have
been placed for commercial imports of 10,000 tons each of skimmed milk
powder and butter oil to ease supply constraints resulting from che 1987
drought.



-44-
halted in the mid-1970s, and the Indian dairy industry has substantially
expanded its dimensions, range of products produced and self-reliance. 1/
7.05    Review Mechanism.  A mechanism for regular review and adjustment of
India's commodity aid/dairy trade policy is already established at the level
of NDDB which has overall responsibility for managing the program. 2/ NDDB's
review committee, which includes representation through the NDDB Board of
producers and Government, meets regularly to review demand, levels of stocks,
price levels, import requirements, production costs and other factors bearing on
the competitivity and efficiency of the Indian dairy industry. It was agreed
during negotiations that NDDB's review process would be expanded in its macro-
economic and long-term planning perspectives, particularly as concerns com-
parison with dairy prices and costs in other countries and consideration of
longer-term trade and production options and implications. Due consideration
would be taken of consumer and producer interests, and the impact of dairy
imports against replenishment export licenses. The NCDFI would also be included
as the representative of dairy cooperatives.
7.06    These adaptations would help build a stronger basis for any necessary
policy action in the future in case current circumstances change. In effect,
the existing review process has been adequate to date in a situation where the
balance of supply, demand and price levels has primarily necessitated a minor
market regulating role for stocks, prices and commodity aid imports. Should
future eventualities result in larger imbalances between supply and demand, or
significantly different world market situations, the broader perspectives
intended for the review process would provide a capacity for India to make any
adjustments in dairy trade and pricing policy that future circumstances may
warrant. The review committee would also continue to play an active monitoring
and encouragement role in adoption by cooperatives and state governments of the
price policy principles outlined below.
Price Policy
7.07    The following price policy principles have been established by NDDB and
are considered sound:
(a)  Pr ducer and consumer prices to be established autonomously by
individual Federations and MPUs in response to supply and demand market
forces without interference by central or state governments, and with a
spread between producer and consumer prices covering processing and
marketing costs. Increased freedom for cooperatives to set their own
prices is becoming increasingly the practice but significant exceptions
are present, especially in metro cities.
1/ In 1960, imports represented 1.4% of production and 40% of dairy
industry throughput. Import levels have remained at about the same level
over the past 25 years, averaging 36,000 tons per annum. Expanding
produCtion and dairy industry throughput have reduced import dependency
to 0.75% of national production and less than 10% of dairy industry
throughput.
2/ Formerly under IDC management.



-45-
(b)  Producer pricing to be on a two-axis basis measuring both fat and SNF
content and valuing the component parts at their market values. The
majority of the states are now on a two-axis system but valuation of
components is frequently not correct, distorting prices to-.ards favoring
either high fat milk (buffaloes and to a lesser extent indigenous
cattle) or lower fat milk (cattle, especially crossbreds).
(c) Seasonal producer and consumer price differentials to be introduced with
higher prices in the lean season (as in the tradit lnat milk vending
market). Promotion of this market reality should be encouraged as very
little seasonal pricing is currently practised by cooperatives.
(d) Imported milk products (powder and butter oil) to be sold by NDDB to
deficit areas at prices corresponding to the prices of indigenously
produced powder and fat. 1/ Additionally, indigenously produced powder
and fat to be sold at prices that cover domestic production costs.
7.08    The key to sound future dairy cooperative pricing, which is vital to
their financial viability as business entities, is the need for autonomous
powers to set prices in response to supply and demand market forces.
Accordingly, this would be one of NDDB's onlending conditionalities (para 5.09).
NDDB's appraisal of state programs and sub-project investment proposals would
also include an assessment of the impact of any public sector dairy pricing
(e.g., consumer price subsidies) that might be deleterious to cooperative and
other private sector marketing and price levels. Some coordination of marketing
and pricing decisions between states will also be required, a role to be played
by NCDFI. With respect to the pricing of milk powder and fat, the following
assurances were obtained during negotiations. Firstly, sale prices of dairy
commodities imported under commodity aid would be maintained at the same levels
as the sale prices of domestically produced reconstitution products. Secondly,
the price at which NDIB sells domestically produced reconstitution products to
deficit areas would be progressively adjusted so as to cover, by not later than
end 1991, average production costs of the commodities. These adjustments would
increase OF revenues from commodity aid sales to their proper market value and
eliminate NDDB subsidies on usage of indigenously produced powder (Annex 8).
VIII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Project Benefits and Welfare Impact
8.01    The institutional, managerial and technical adjustments promoted under
the project would help the dairy cooperative sector to improve efficiency and
1/ Substantial progress on past under-pricing has been made in recent
years and prices are now nearly in balance; sale prices for powder were
raised from Rs 9,000 per ton in 1981 to Rs 18,000 per ton in 1986, and in
1987 were raised again to Rs 22,000 per ton, nearly the domestic produc-
tion cost of Rs 23,000 to 24,000 per ton. Similar progress has been made
with butter oil.



-46-
productivity and would set the stage for sustained development of a competitive,
commercially oriented domestic dairy industry capable of responding to the
expanding domestic demand for milk and dairy products. The project would have
major impact on rural employment and incomes particularly as concerns the
projects' very large proportion of poor households (para 8.02). It would
benefit some two million additional rural households (11 million people) and
provide continued support towards improving milk yields and family incomes of
the 4.7 million households (26 million people) already incorporated under OF.
Costs per beneficiary household are low, amounting to Rs 3,400 (US$250) base
costs per incremental household, or Rs 1,000 (US$75) when expressed in terms of
total households. At full development, some 13.7 mlpd of milk would be procured
(of which 5.2 mlpd of milk would be incremental), representing Rs 14 billion per
annum (US$1,040 million) in cash revenues for farmers, and significantly aug-
menting the supply of milk and milk products in urban areas. In that expansion
of cooperative dairying provides competitive pressures on the margins of tradi-
tional milk vendors, increases rural milk prices generally and lowers consumer
prices, the project would also have significant broader benefits for urban
consumers and other rural milk producers. The project would also set in place
and promote measures to increase farm level productivity, thereby having an
important long-term impact on milch animal yields.
8.02    Impact on Poverty and Incomes.  By Year 7, the project would directly
involve some 7% of India's rural households, providing them with an available
market at reasonable prices, a reliable year round source of income and access
to further increases in income through improvements in productivity. About 20%
of project beneficiaries are anticipated to be landless and a further 30% to be
marginal farmers with holdings of less than 2.5 acres (Annex 9). The project's
impact on rural incomes would, thus, be considerably more equitable than most
crop development programs as a result of the much more even distribution between
income groups of animals than that of land. Hence, while project objectives are
focused on productivity and efficiency rather than specifically on attainment of
welfare goals, the natural asset distribution characteristics of the Indian
dairy sector result in excellent poverty impact.
8.03    Social Impacts and Impact on Women.  Participation in a DCS is open to
any milch animal owning household, irrespective of religion, caste or sex. DCSs
thus act as cohesive forces for the breakdown of social barriers and community
interaction, while DCS committees tend to evolve as important village level
instruments for community planning and self management of development actions.
The older and more established DCSs also finance village level social
infrastructure. For many rural households, participation in a dairy cooperative
and access to improved cash incomes and dairy intensification measures also
offers an inroad into a modern perspective of agricultural production
possibilities. Women are substantial beneficiaries. In addition to the 17% of
registered DCS members that are women, in mixed households (where the registered
member is generally male), women often handle the bulk of the household's dairy
activities. Field observations indicate that household welfare is enhanced by
the regularity of income provided through dairying. Nutritional impact for
cooperative households has been the subject of some controversy but appears to



-47-
be fairly neutral--or perhaps slightly negative--as concerns milk consumption,
although positive as concerns global consumption of nutrients.  1/
8.U4    Environmental Impact.  The project would have a positive environmental
impact. Over the long term, the urban sector's current substantial reliance on
city based milch animals--already a strain on urban capacities for provision of
water and disposal of manure--would pose serious threats to the environment if
the urban milch animal population were to keep pace with growth in urban milk
demand (6.5% per annum, para 7.01). The market link provided by OF allows milk
production in rural areas where the natural farm complementarities between crop
and animal production (including usage of manure for fertilization) can be
exploited. OF's urban dairies are designed in accordance with appropriate
effluent disposal standards and have minor pollutant impact. The project
includes a pilot silvipasture development program on marginal land and waste-
lands (para 3.13). An important long-term impact that can be expected with
growing monetarization of cattle keeping motives concerns the composition of the
cattle population. While dairy animals are generally stall fed from cut forage
and crop residues, the desirable reduction in the proportion or scrub animals
discussed in para 1.09 could significantly reduce grazing pressures by abandoned
animals on marginal lands.
Economic Rate of Return
8.05    The project's ERR is estimated at 27% (Annex 10).  One important benefit
stems from the increase in the net value of milk as a result of its transfer
from surplus rural areas to deficit urban areas. Average milk prices (adjusted
to standard milk--4.5% fat, 8.5% SNF--equivalent prices) increase from Rs 2.4
per liter farmgate to Rs 3.9 per liter at the urban retail level, 2/ an incre-
ment of Rs 1.5 per liter. Corresponding variable costs comprise the net of tax
costs of collection, processing, transport and marketing (Rs 0.8 per liter).
Both streams were computed against the project's incremental procurement assum-
ing no further infrastructure investments and no further increases in procure-
ment after Project Year 7. The other main benefit assessed, the project's
impact on production, is more difficult to estimate given the limited field data
available. A conservative assumption of a 1.5% per annum growth in productivity
1/ A number of sources support this assessment. A detailed survey in
Karnataka (The Impact of Cooperative Development in Karnataka,
H. Alderman, IFPRI/World Bank, 1986) concluded that household membership
in a DCS resulted in a small (3%) reduction in average milk consumption,
but had a statistically significant positive net impact on overall
household consumption of nutrients (calories, proteins). Field observa-
tions also indicate positive second round welfare and nutrition impacts
for households as a result of increased yields and increased numbers of
milch animals.
2/ Equivalent to the retail price of reconstituted New Zealand milk after
application of the shadow exchange adjustment currently used for India of
25% and a taste preference factor of 10%. Consumers greatly prefer fresh
to reconstituted milk. Even in deficit urban areas in the lean season,
accommodation of this preference requires mixing of reconstituted milk
with fresh milk.



-48-
due to the project (over and above productivity growth without the project) has
been used. 2/ The resultant value of incremental farmgate production (at Rs 2.8
ner liter for 5.7% fat and 8.5% SNF milk) has been computed against the
,ssociated farmgate costs (Rs 2.1 per liter) and the variable and equipment
replacement costs of the project's productivity enhancement measures (Rs 0.1 per
liter). Costs and benefits were computed over 20 years, the estimated average
life of project-financed equipment and civil works, and include the net of tax
investment costs of the project. Allowances for improved efficiency at farm
level or in processing and marketing have not been accounted for. An important
benefit that has not been included, due to lack of precise data, is the
generally he'd assessment of OF's positive impact in providing competitive
pressures on the sometimes excessive marketing margins of the traditional
sector. Similarly, other benefits--such as the value of manure--have also not
been included. The financial viability of individual sub-projects is indicated
by the financial rates of return for typical model developments at Annex 7,
which range from 15% to 28%.
8.06    Sensitivity.  The ERR is only marginally sensitive to variations in
project investment costs or the length of the investment period. The greatest
influences relate to alternative assumptions of net value added through rural-
urban transfer and, to a lesser extent, the assumed productivity growth
(Table 8.1). If urban milk is valued at the price of reconstituted New Zealand
milk without application of a taste preference factor, the ERR falls to 17.6%.
Under this assumption, combined with an assumed productivity growth of only 1%
per annum, the ERR falls to 14.5%.
Table 8.1: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY
ERR
Point estimate                                         27.0
Investment costs plus 10%                              24.5
Investment costs minus 10%                             30.1
Project implementation in five year,                   31.0
Value of urban milk minus 20% a/                       17.6
Productivity growth of 1% per annum                    24.2
Value of urban milk minus 20% and
productivity growth of 1% per annum                  14.5
a! Equivalent to New Zealand reconstituted milk without
application of a taste preference factor.
2/ This is substantially lower than incremental milk procurement which is
primarily influenced by the growth in the number of OF farmers involved.



-49-
Risks
8.07    Concerning technical features,  all major project components have
already been widely proven at MPU and Federation levels and include adjustments
necessary to take account of past experience as well as more stringent
appraisals of individual investments and plant capacity needs. Managerially,
the project would start from a much stronger base than under ND I. NDDB
(formerly NDDB and IDC, para 1.14) has proven itself a strong implementation
agency, the basic structures of the Federations and MPUs are already present and
training and management strengthening measures under the project would improve
implementation capabilities. A key requirement for OF's future relates to the
need for a continued strong chairmanship of NDDB. Government and NDDB are fully
aware of this need.
8.08    The project's main risk relates to the willingness of the states to
implement the project's cooperative institutional reforms (para 5.05). Central
government and NDDB are committed to facilitate and promote these reforms and,
most importantly, strong grassroots support is present amongst cooperative
members. Recent progress is encouraging, and the state assurances provided at
negotiations (para 5.06) provide sufficient grounds to anticipate significant
progress during project implementation. Realistic expectations will,
nevertheless, be needed and it is unlikely that a full adjustment will have been
achieved by project completion. The importance of these adjustments justifies
the onlending conditionalities that will be applied by NDDB, and the acceptance
of the possibility of significant delays in implementation or underachievements
in some states. For this reason, although a faster rate of progress in other
states is possible, implementation of a project assessed as achievable in five
years has instead been programmed over seven years. While it is considered
likely that project targets can be achieved in aggregate within the seven year
period, a longer project implementation would be regarded as an acceptable
eventuality if it helped promote institutional adjustments to ensure the long
term sustainability and financial viability of the OF dairy cooperative sector.
IX. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    At negotiations the following assurances and understandings were agreed
with GOI and NDDB:
(a) Government would onlend Bank/IDA funds to NDDB at 7-1/2% interest with a
15 year repayment period, including three years' grace for principal and
interest, and would carry the foreign exchange risk (para 4.03);
(b) NDDB onlending to cooperatives would feature:
(i) Interest at 10% per annum and repayment over 15 years with three
years grace. Interest on working capital would be at least
1-1/2% above the rate for investments (para 4.04);
(ii) Sub-loan appraisal procedures and approval criteria would be
in accordance with para 5.04; and



-50-
(iii) Cooperative bylaws would, inter alia, allow for transfers of
profits to maintain equity in real terms (para 6.09).
(c) NDDB would submit to the Bank:
(i) Bianniual progress reports in accordance with para 4.11; and
(ii)  Annual audited accounts of NDDB and the Special Account
(para 4.13).
(d)  Onlending conditionalities to cooperatives would require their adoption
or meaningful progress towards adoption of the OF model institutional
features at para 5.05;
(e) NDDB would continue to be afforded managerial and financial autonomy
by GOI, and NDDB's internal control procedures and departmental func-
tions would continue to ensure that planning and promotion of invest-
ments would be adequately separated from approving investments (para
5.09);
(f) Accounting, financing and management of NDDB activities unrelated to
the OF program would be kept separate from the OF program (para 6.04);
(g) Grants and subsidies would be progressively reduced as described at
para 6.05; and
(h) on pricing and management of commodity aid/trade arrangements:
(i) NDDB's review process would be expanded in scope as described
at para 7.05; and
(ii) Prices of dairy commodities imported under commodity aid arrange-
ments would be maintained at the same levels as the sale prices
of comparable domestically produced commodities, and sale prices
of domestically produced skimmed milk powder and fat would be
progressively adjusted by December 31, 1991 to cover avera-e
production costs (para 7.08).
9.02    With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$200 million and an IDA credit of SDRs 121.2 million (US$160
million equivalent).



-S1-                                                          ANNEX 1
Table  1
S                          ~~~~~~~~~INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY 11 PROJECT
_  1                                  PROJECT COST SvMMRY
(RUPEES '000)                     (USt '000)                      2 Total
-----------------  t I oreijn  BPse
Local    Foreign    Total         Loc; l  Foreidn   Total    Exchange    Costs
=:::::::::: :::::r:__r zs_:::::v:: ::::::::: :::::::: ::_::::rr  ::::::rr: ::::-_:
A, PROCESSING CAPACITY  I/                                 2,777,030.0 270,820.0 3,047,900.0  205.705.9 209064.4 22!,770.4           9       43
P. TECHNICAL INPUTS
1. FEED AND FODDER
CATTLE FEED PLANTS                                     142.236.3  12,701.8  1540938.0  10.536.0   940.9  11,476.9              8        2
UREA ! MOLASSES BLOCK PLANTS                            36P514,5   3,485.5    40O.0000    29704.8   25h.2   24963.0            9        1
SEED PROCESSING PLANTS                                   9,198.0    882.0   10,080.0        681.3    65.3    746.7             9        0
SILVIPASTURE AND FODDER DEVELOPMENT                     804381.2    404.3   80785.5    54954.2    29;9   59984.1              I        I
Sub-Total FEED AND FODDER                                 268,310.0  179473,5   285,803.5  19,876,3  1.294#3  21,170.6            6        4
2. ANIMAL WREEDING
SEMEN PRODUCTION                                        610855.2  59568.4   67,423.5   4,511.9   41Y.S  4.994.3                8        I
FIELD Al PROGM                                         110,613,8  149373.8  124,987.5   84193.6  1,064.7  9.258.3             12        2
SIRE EVALUATION                                         63P965.0  2,935.0   66,900.0   4,738.1    217.4   4t955.6              4        1
VtTERINARY SERVICES                                     57,540.5  3,754.5   61.295,0    44262.3   278.1  4.540.4               6        1
Sub-Total ANIMAL BREEDING                                 293,974.4  269631.6  320.606.0   21,775.9  1,972.7  2.?,748.6           8        5
Sub-Total TECHNICAL INPUTS                                   562.304.4  44,105.2  606.409.5  41,652.2  3,267.0  44.919.2             7        9
C. MILK MARKETING SYSTEMS  1/                              1,335,020.9 1244697.1 1,459.718.0  98.890,4  9.236.8 108.127,3            9       21
D. SUPPORT tO VILLA3E COOPERATIVES                           798,600.0  54v250#0  852.850.0  59,155.6  A4019.5  63,174.1             6       12
E. MKT PRO1. MON AND EVAL, TRAIN. RES AND STUD
1. ME.   RMTO
I tiARKET PROMtOTION                                       15,574,7   6.148.4   21,723.0    1,153.7   455.4  1.60941             28        0
2. TRAINING  4/                                           297,207.8  11,233.5  308,441.3  22,015.4   832.1  22t447.5              4        4
3. RESEARCH STUDIES * N AND E * CONSULTANCIES              49,429.7  18t333.3   67.763.0   3,661.5  1.358.0   5,019.5            27        1
Sub-Total MKT PROM. MON AND EVALt TRAIN? RES AND STUD        362.212.1  35,715.1  397,927.3  26.830.5  2,64i.6  29i476.1             9        6
F. NATIONAL MILK GRID AND STABILIZATION  1/                  486i272#5  60,107.6  546,380.0  36.020.2  4.452.4  40.472.6            11        8
0. DISEASE CONTROL / MILK PROD ENHANCEMENT
1. BULLS PRODUCTION AND PROCUREMENT                        31,368.0   1,790.0   33,158.0    24323.6   132.6   2t456.1             5        0
F. FMD CONTROL                                            160,724.5     275.0   160,999.5  11,905.5    20.4  11925.9             0        2
Sub-Total DISEASE CONTROL   M fILK PROD ENHANCEMENT          192,092.5  2,065.0   194,1t7.5   1',229.1    153.0  14.382.0            1        3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        6b513.532.4 591,809.9 71S05.342.3  1820483.9 43#837.8 526.321.7            8      100
Ph,sical tortin5ences 2/                                     93,622.9  6.7t-6,5   100,409.4   6,935.0   50?.7   7437.7              7        1
Price Contingencies                                       1,851.637.8  92,126.0 1#9439763.8  137,158,4  6W824.1 143,982 5           5       27
------    - ---- -------       -- ----    --- ----   -  ------   -------   - ----
Total FROJECT COSTS  3/                                      8,458,793.1 690722.4 ?.1499511.5  626,577,3 51,164.6 677'741.9            8      129
zz::--:.:::rt:_ ===::    _.zz=Z:-_z ==::=::= ::======: =:=zzXzz:   -_s=:ss=
November 18. 1987 08:46
1/   Costs  include  5% physical  contingencies on processing capacity, milk tarketing systems and National
Milk Grid and Stabilization.
2/   OF 5% on all  items except  as noted  in footnote  1/,  already applied.
31   Detailed  project  cost  tables  in Project  Files.
4/ Tncludes some consultancy funds.



iNDIA
NATINL DAIRY 1l PROJECT
Sutarn, Accounts tb Year
(RUPEES '000                                                                  `
9;se Costs                                         Foreian Excharn<e
87/88     88189      89/90       90/91      91/92      92/93       Q3/94     Total       I    Aourmt             4
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL  MS PROCESSING FACILITIES            181t014.1  231,029.5  278,462.4  291,994.8  217,589.1  246,843.0  202,904.1 1,719,837.0   5.0  850708.7
P. CIVIL VORKS TECHNiCAL SERVICES              30,833.4   30,326.6   23,407.0   139469.3  1I651.4    74198.1    2P231.6  1199117.5   5.0   5.955.v
C. MACHINERY AND ElUIPMENT                    304,999.1  465,732.4  604,510.0  596,588.1  512.793.4  403.709.?  329,252.3 3,217,584.0  10.0 321,758.4
D. LABRATORY AND TECHNICAL EQUIPMENt          133p840.0  115.792.4  105,897.4  101.090,6   1009775.5   964203.3   91,661.2  745,260.5  10.0  749526.1
E. VEHICLES AND TAKERS                         52,954.8   59,257.4   61,776.1   58*030.2   59*440.1   46.922.6   34,616.8  372998.0  20.0  74i599.6
F. DEVELOPMENT
1. COMPOSITE SPEARHEAD TEAIMS               25,477.    16,122.5   13,022.0   11P566.8   11,611.9   11*542.1   11,457.7  100.800.0   0.0          0.0
2. ESTABLISHMENT / MANEENT GRANTS           11,165,0   10,782.1   10,933.2   10.623.7   10,274.9   10,270.8   10,350.2   74.400.0   0.0          0.0
Sub-Total EVEl OPFENT                          36t642.0   26.904.6   23.95551    22r190.5   21*886.9   21,812.9   21,80?.9  175,200.0   0.0         0.0
5. LOCAL TRAINING                              22,336.3   22,608.5   23.255.7   24,338.9   25,634.0   26i290.3   26P383.5  170,847.3   5.0   84542*4
H. OVERSEAS TRAINING                              507.2      798.0    1,060.0    1*115.8    1,116.3    1,113.0   I1i*4.6    6#825.0  90.0   6.142.5
I. IMAETINB AND OTHER STUDIES                     491.6    1,400.9    2*012.0    1t843.7    1t839.3    1,868.2    14854.3   11,310.0   0.0          0.0
J. TEClNICAL ASSISTA
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-FOREIGN CONSULTANTS    19758.9    2t,052.5    20192.1    2.042.7    29039.7    2.059.9    2.050.2   14,196.0  90.0  12.76.4
2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-LOCAL CONSIRTANTS      116.7      203.6      295.3       273.2       57.4       34.8         8.9      990.0   0.0        0.0
- -  ,       -------- -- - ------ ----------- - - --- - - - - ---
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  1*875.6    2,256.2    2487.4    2315.9    2,097.0    2,094.7    2,059.1   15t186.0  84.1  12,776.4
K. ANIMALS                                      5.987.3    7,038.6    79526.0    7,300.2    8,098.6    9.076.6    9,904.7   54,932.0   0.0          0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                           771.481.4  963,145.1 1,134,349.3 1t120.278.2 1.032.921.6  863.131.6  723,790.1 69609.097.3   8.9 590,009.9
II. RECRRENIT COSTS
A. SALARIES                                    1,083.6    1,920.9    2.777.8    2,531.5    3,535.2    54006.2    59944.8   22,800.0   0.0           0.0
B. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                   5,470.2    5,522.6    6w283.1    6.765.8    4.291.3    3*983.3    3.683.7   36,000.0   5.0   14800.0
C. NKING CAPITAL                               9P173.6    9t420.2    9.797,7   10.088.1   10,062.9   10,140.7   10P316.8   69.000.0   0.0           0.0
D. SUPLIES AND MATERIALS                      43,681.6   49P257.6   54,554.2   55.855.4   55,068.3   549785.5   55,242.5  368,445.0   0.0          0.0
Total RECUMENT COSTS                              59,409.0   66,121.2   73*412.7   75*240.7   72o957.7   73.915.7   75,187.9  496.245.0   0.4   1,800,0
Total BASELINE COSTS                              930,890.5 1*029.266.4 1,207.762.0 1,195,51849 1*1059879.3  937,047.2  798,978.0 7,105,342.3   8.3 591809.9
Phvsical Contirsencres 1/                        6F567.7   15,916.0   156502.2   14*439.8   13.737.2   129632.3   11614.2  100409.4   6.8   6,786.5
Price Continsencies                             33i114.0  125,557.4  2479129.6  3340784.9  389,992.8  403,262.2  409*922.9 1*943.763.8   4.7  92,126.0
_ ________  _____ ___ ---__- - -------- ------ - ---- -                                   --- -        _    *      -i I
Total PROJECT COSTS                               880.572.2 14170W739.7 1470,393.9 19544.743.6 1.509.609.3 14352P941.8 1P220.515.1 9.149.515.5   7.5  690,722.4
3=1r=--   ==--====S   --==           3=____     ===_-=--== ==:===_==_CC:>
Taxes                                           16,778.0   22.684.5   28,593.6   29.967.7   29,120.5   25,490.6   22t2M3.3  174v928.2   0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                71.655,5   95t834.8  119.209.0  120,654.0  111,653.7   93*254.5   78,461.0  690,722.4   0.0          0.0
October 2, 1987 13:50
1/ See footnotes l/ and 2/ of Table 1.



-53-
ANNEX 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Bank's                                 Disbursed
Fiscal             Semester              During            Cumulative
Year                                   Semester
1988         June, 30 1988               46 a/                46
1989         December 31. 1988           30 a/                76
June 30, 1989               14                  90
1990         December 31, 1989           20                  110
June 30, 1990               20                 130
1991         December 31, 1990           30                 160
June 30, 1991              30                  190
1992         December 31, 1991           30                 220
June 30, 1992              30                  250
1993         December 31, 1992           30                 280
June 30, 1993              30                  310
1994         December 31, 1993           25                 335
June 30, 1994              25                  360
a/  Includes Special Account and Retroactive Financing.



-54-                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Project Implementation Lessons From Previous Bank-Financed Dairy Projects
1.      Although significant achievements have been made under OF and its
supporting Bank-financed projects (paras 1.20 to 1.23), a number of shortcom-
ings and lessons for future development were noted in the PCRs and PPAR and
are summarized below under four headings: animal productivity enhancement;
implementation and management; financial viabilit; and, most importantly,
institutional and policy features. The revised OF-III program and proposed
project have fully taken account of these observations.
2.      Animal Productivity Enhancement.  The strong emphasis by NDDB and
national and state governments on measures to increase the generally low
level of productivity of Indian livestock is strategically sound and
generally well focussed on the key factors involved, but is now recognized to
require some adjustment of emphasis. Additionally, the appraisal objectives
did not fully recognize the time required to gain acceptance by farmers and
targets were over-ambitious.
(a)  Cattle crossbreeing proceeded more slowly than anticipated and
&4netic upgrading of buffaloes was given insufficient prominence.
Crossbreeding linked with upgraded animal husbandry, veterinary
services and improved feeding can substantially increase animal
productivity and income generation for participating farmers and is
now rapidly gaining acceptance (from 32,000 recorded female crossbred
births in 1981 to 94,000 in 1986). Nevertheless, the technology is
appropriate only when a farmer has reached a certain level of exper-
tise and interest. OF's future genetic upgrading program for cattle
will focus on the more productive farmers and better milksheds and
funds would also be provided under che project to extend the buffalo
improvement program. Care would also be taken not to introduce too
high a proportion of exotic blood in crossbred animals, and national
research programs should continue to identify and develop promising
indigenous breeds.
(b) Objectives to expand concentrate feed usage and production of green
fodder were strategically well based, and inroads have been made but
targets were over-optimistic. From 1981 to 1986 usage by OF par-
ticipants of balanced cattle feed increased from 205,000 mt per day
to 590,000 mt per day. Hectarage changes under green fodder are not
accurately recorded, though it is estimated that less than 5% of
India's cultivated area is under fodder crops. For feed mills, size
specifications were frequently too large relative to actual uptake
levels with resultant underutilization in most areas.  Additiorally,
more attention will now be placed on extension efforts to optimize
the nutritional balance in farmer's cattle feeding practices. NDDB's
plans for promotion of urea/molasses licks will be a useful input in
such efforts.



-55-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
(c) The veterinary_program was well accepted but costs when borne by the
cooperative structures proved a major financial burden, and services
will increasingly be directly charged to the farmers. Current
initiatives to make more effective use of existing state veterinary
services will also be encouraged.
(d) Animal husbandry extension has received inadequate attention both in
the cooperative structures and by state governments; field services
have tended to focus almost entirely on veterinary services, whereas
major gains in animal productivity and farm incomes can also result
from simple improvements in animal husbandry (e.g., improved calf
rearing, better feeding and management).
(e) Dovetailing where practical of cooperative technical services and
state livestock services is now being examined by NDDB and the state
Governments. This initiative will allow more effective use of
Government services and reduce cooperative sector costs, and will be
encouraged as a general principle with implementation programs
designed on a state by state basis.
3.      Implementation and Management Problems.  New Federations and MPUs
encountered a number of implementation problems not fully foreseen in the
project development programs, particularly for the state projects. The new
cooperative entities were inexperienced and leadership was not always
effective, and usually well intentioned but frequently excessive local
Government involvement hampered decision making. Plant construction programs
often took much longer than anticipated, and the managements of new plants
took time to work out initial operating problems. Additionally, management
problems were exacerbated by the frequent transfer of managing directors of
state Federations. NDDB's strong technical assistance and training emphasis
and the build-up of operational experience over time have resulted in
progressive improvement in technical and management expertise in the state
cooperative structures. Continued emphasis on training and management
development will, however, be important for OF's future.
4.      A number of management areas were underemphasized and are now recog-
nized by NDDB as requiring greater attention and resources in the future.
Firstly, financial management and commercial personnel at NDDB and in the
cooperatives need reinforcement with increased emphasis on general
accounting, auditing, cost accounting and business management. General
accounting and auditing has progressively been built up and NDDB is estab-
lishing a good cost accounting and management information system. Further
emphasis in the cooperatives is required towards the business orientations
and financial management of commercial undertakings. Secondly, monitoring
and evaluation of field impact needs much greater attention. Thirdly, due to
previous situations of chronic milk scarcity, market promotion has only
recently been recognized as an important element of cooperative dairy
development, but is now receiving increased attention.



-56-
ANNEX 3
P-ge 3 of 3
5.      Financial Viability.  Measures to improve financial viability, both
at the levels of the cooperatives and of NDDB, need increased attention. At
the level of NDDB, continued provision of low interest - long maturity loans
and part of cooperative funding in the form of grants would reduce the long-
term financial viability of NDDB or require continued NDDB dependency on
grant aid. The most critical problem is at the level of the cooperatives,
many of which are new inatitutions and still financially weak (paras 6.06
and 6.07. Appraisal criteria and procedures for evaluating proposals for
new MPUs or the expansion plans of existing MPUs need to ensure that only
financially strong development proposals are accepted.
6.      Institutional and Policy Features.  A theme that emerges throughout
the PCRs and the PPAR, concerns the need for further aeveloping a policy and
institutional environment conducive to sustained dairy cooperative develop-
ment. Essentially, this relates to adoption of the central features of the
OF model (Annex 4), which have been well proven as providing key elements for
farmer responsive, efficient business entities. Remarking on these matters,
the PPAR emphasized "a central plank of the AMUL cooperative organization is
farmer ownership/control at DCS, union and federation level and, most
importantly, freedom of the cooperative organization to manage all aspects of
milk procurement, processing, marketing and pricing." The slowness with
which adjustments of the CF model were being made was considered by the PPAR
as "the most detrimental constraint on OF generally and remain major out-
standing issues in all four Bank-financed projects."



-57-                          ANNEX 4
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Key Features of the OF Cooperative Model
The institutional structure for cooperatives being promoted under OF
is based on the central institutional features of the Anand Milk Union
Limited (AMUL). While some differences in application are encouraged where
specific local conditions merit, OF experience over nearly two decades in a
variety of agroecological, social and institutional environments throughout
India has shown that the key institutional properties below are critically
important. With these properties, experience has shown that the cooperatives
can be financially viable, can achieve high levels of efficiency and
competitivity, and provide services responsive to farmer needs, to the
ultimate benefit also of the urban sector. Departure from these features
generally results in bureaucratization of decision making, lack of respon-
siveness to farmer and consumer needs, high levels of inefficiency and non-
viability (Chapter VI). The key features are:
(a) The boards of DCSs, MPUs and Federations are duly elected by the
members from their member constituents;
(b)  The cooperative structures operate under model by-laws ensuring the
democratic process, regular meetings of the boards, regular and
independent auditing, the accountability of the boards to the members
and annual general body meetings at which audited accounts are
reviewed, future plans discussed and elections held;
(c)  Employment by the cooperative of professional managers (DCS
secretaries, managing directors of MPUs and Federations, plant
managers, etc.) answerable to the cooperative boards;
(d) Management and ownership by the cooperatives of assets used by the
cooperatives (dairy plants, chilling centers, feed plants, bull
mother farms, etc.), generally at the MPU level unless the central
purpose of the asset justifies Federation level management and
ownership); and
(e) Autonomy to the cooperatives in pricing, marketing, appointment of
key personnel and employment of labor.



-58-                          ANNEX S
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Indian Dairy Corporation - Balance Sheet a/
(Rs Million
Fiscal Year Ended March 31st
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Equity
Share capital                   10      10      10     10      10      10     10
Capital reserve                                        30      31     31      31
Revenue reserve                356    517    646    766    918  1,071  1,147
Sub-total                      366    527    656    806    959  1,112  1,188
Accumulated Funds
Operation Flood                890  1,562  2,011  2,125  2,614  2,645  2,581
Other                            -       9      11     13      16     20      23
Sub-total                      890  1,571  2,022  2,138  2 630  2,665  2,604
Long Term Loans (secured)         566    653  1,097    881  1,741  2,272  2,397
Total equity/funding            1,822  2,751  3,775  3,825  5,330  6,049  6,189
Fixed Assets
Cost less depreciation          43    182    209    271    265    228    389
Investments                      1       1       1      1       1      13     13
Sub-total                       44    183    210    272    266    241    402
Current Assets
Inventories                     49      91    102    122       99     99    194
Loans and advances           1,133  1,349  1,888  1,988  2,849  3,749  4,010
Other receivables              471    812    644       38      36      28     49
Cash                           575    759  1,046  1,550  2,281  2,088  1,740
Sub-total                    2,228  3,011  3,680  3,698  5,265  5,964  5,993
Less Current Liabilities
Liability & provisions       447    436    101    138    191    148    194
Other                          3       7      14      7      10      8      12
Sub-total                    450    443    115    145    201    156    206
Net Current Assets           1,778  2,568  3,565  3,553  5,064  5,808  5,787
Total Net Assets             1,822  2,751  3,775  3,825  5,330  6,049  6,189
a/  The above years 1981 through 1986 are based on audited accounts;
1987 is unaudited.



-59-                          ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Indian Dairy Corporation - Operation Flood Fund Account
(Rs Million)
Fiscal Year Ended March 31st
1978-81  1982  1983  1984   1985  1986  1987
Receipts
Sale of pooled commodities            1,214    839   780   798  1,108   639   565
Operation Flood I (net transfer)        357          -     -      -         -     -
Government of India grants                -      9      4    12       3      9     5
1,571    848   784   810  1,111   648   570
Less:
Purchase of indigenous commodities   549         5    97   395    201   149    48
Storage, inland transp. and
other handling costs                  38     21    24    16       33    38    30
Subsidy on indigenous comm.                                                 17   105
58      26   121   Z-1   234   204  i83_ 
Net Receipts                            984    822   663   399    877   444   387
Deduct:  Disbursements
Ito;s 1 - Processing capacity            53     56    79    96    152   137   190
2 - Technical inputs for milk
production                     5      35    31    22      41    71    40
3 - Milk marketing systems         20      14    30    25       36    35    36
4 - Support for village
cooperative organizations       3      18    22    47      38    48    78
5 - Planning, trg & res.            8       6    28    48       56    50    50
6 - Project implementation          7       6    17    28       31    27      9
7 - National milk grid              5       8      5     1      10     2      5
8 - Infrastructure support
for disease control                                17     23    40    40
9 - Supplementary feeding
program                                      2      1       1     3      3
101    14-3  21 4   28-5   388   413   451
Receipts over Disbursements             883    679   449   114    489    31   -64
Balance March 31st                      883  1,562 2,011 2,125  2,614 2,645 2,581
-  Revenue Expenditure:  Represents interest income received, less interest
expense paid and accrued, less operating expenses. Operating expenses
represent about 50X of the total establishment, office administration and
other expenses; the other 50% being charged to OF Account.
-  Operation Flood:  The net income from the conversion and sale of grant
commodities, less subsidy/loss on the sale of indigenous skim milk powder,
and grants and direct expenses under the OF program. The value of
inventories on hand is not accounted for until it is issued for
realization.
- Long Term Loans: Government of India loans, arising mainly from IDA
funds.
-  Loans and Advances:  About 95% relate to loans and advances to cooperative
federations and unions, of which about 90% of the total is secured by the
respective State Governments. At March 1986, about Rs 900 million (25%)
of loans and advances to the cooperatives was for working capital, with
interest at 11% per annum.



-60-
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT                                     ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIAN DAIRY CORPORATION                                      Page 1 of 3
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
(Years ended March 31st, Rs Killion)
1988     1989       1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
SHARE CAPITAL                                       10        10        10        10        10        10        10
CAPIIAL RESERVE                                     31        31        31        31        31        31        31
REVENUEIRESERVE INCOME t EXPEND.(TAB.2)           1699      2028      2361      2722      3112      3546      4035
1740     2069      2402      2763      3153       3587      4076
ACCUMULATED FUNDS
OPERATION FLOOD (TABLE 3)                     2553      2422      2239      2049      I179       1675      1190
OTHER                                            23        23        23        23        23        23        23
2576      2445      2262      2072      1902      1698      1213
LONG TERM LOANS INCL. INTEREST 1/                 2662      3547      4571      5594      6590      7522      8405
TOTAL CAPITAL, FUND AND LONG-TERM LOANS          6978       8061      9235    10429    11645    12807    13694
REPRESENTING:
FIXED ASSETS 2/                                    394       428       500       588       655       661       622
INVESTMENTS 3/                                      13        13        13        13        13        13        13
CURRENT ASSETS:
LOANS AND ADVANCES (INCL. INTEREST) 4/    5239          6232      7429      8697      9971     11068    12185
CASH/BANk BALANCES (FROM TABLE 4)             1365      1321      1126       864       639       k22       431
BUFFER STOCKS-COMMODITIES                        0       100       200       300       400       476       476
OTHER                                          243       243       243       243       243       243       243
6847     7896      8998    10104    11253    12409    13335
LESS: CURRENT LIABILITIES                      276       276       276       276       276       276       276
6571      7620      8722      9828    10977    12133    13059
TOTAL ASSETS  51                              6978      8061      9235    10429    11645    12807    13694
FOOTNOTES:
1/ 601 FINANCING, MAINLY BANK/IDA FUNDS.
2/ AT NET BOOK VALUE.
3/ INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, MAINLY HINDUSTAN PACKAGING CO.
4/ LOANS AND ADVANCES MAINLY TO FEDERATIONS AND UNIONS PLUS INTEREST ACCRUED.
5/FROM  OCT. 12,  1987,  INCORPORATED  WITH  NDDB.



-61-
INDIA                               ANNEX 5
SECOND NATIONL DAIRY PROJECT                    Table 2
Page 4 o+ '
INDIAN DAIRY CORPORATION
PROJECTED INCOlE AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT
liears ended March 31st, Rs Mlillion)
1988     1989      199t      1991     1992      1993      1994
INTEREST RECEIllABLES
LOANS AND ADVANLES 1!                         381      465      59        699       83b      973      1084
bANE ifABLE 4)                                134       119       91        63        27         0        0
515      584       60O       762      863       973      1084
LESS.
INTEREST PAVABLE 70 601 2:                    180      200       266       333      400       465       525
ESTABLISHMENT ANI OTHER EXPENSES
LESS RECOVERt (TABLE 4i                     20       20        20        20       20        20        20
DEPRECIATION 4/1                               32        35       41        48        53       54        50
232      255       4.:       401      473       539       595
NET PROFIT FOR YEARi                             293       329      333       361       390       434      489
OPENING BALANCE                                 1416      1699     2028      2361      2722     3112      3546
*SLI;t 6nL'HhCE  'inii  j!                      16V7      262b     2361      2722'    3112      3546      4035
FOOTNOTES:
1I  UP TO 1987i88 INTEREST ON INVESTMENT LENDING OAS CHARGED AT
8 1/2% P.A.; SINCE THEN IT WILL BE CHAR6ED AT 101 P.A. INTEREST
ON WORKING CAPITAL IS CHARGED AT 11 1i2I P.A. THROUGHOUT THE PERIOD.
2i BANN INTEREST IS SHOWN AT AVERAGE OF 8t P.A., CALCULATED ON
THE 8E61NNING BALANCE OF IHE YEAR.
3i ESfAbLISHMENT EXPENSES RELATE TO ID S OPERATING EXPENSES.
4s  DEPRECIATION ESTIMATED TO REFLECT S P,A. ON CIVIL WORkS1
102 P.A. ON EQUIPMENT, ON THE NET 8001 VALUE BASIS.
INDIAN DAIRY CORPORATION
PROJECTED OPERATION FLOOD ACCUMULATED FUNDS
;Years ended Match 31st, Rs XilhIon)
1988     1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994
OPENING BALANCE                                 2609     2553      2422      2239      2049     1879      1675
RECEIPIS (TABLE 4,                               405       390      390       390       390      390        75
3014     2943      2812      2629     2439      2269      175(
DEDUCT: 'TABLE 4'
6RAHIS                                       It       250       306       3'0       2?2      2-.       285
BEV. EIPENSES i.:                             Ito       109     1I1        133      0o7       It.       172
VILLAGE SUPPORT 2i                             hb       87        9t        92       at        86        GB
SUBSIDY ON IND16ENOUS COMMODITIES              60        60       40        40        20       20         0
pORTION OF ESTABLISHMENT EXPENSES              15        15       15        15        15       15        15
461      521       573      580       560       594       560
(tOS!N6 BALANCE                                 2553     2422      2239      2049      19?9     1675      1l90
FOOTNOIES9
I, PRODUCTION ENNACERENt, TRAIRINS. RESEARI AND STUDIES.
2/ ESTASLIP UNT Of VILtLA6E SOCIETIES INCLUDINS 301 SUMSIDIAEY Ol RIlUO tESTERS.



-62-
(P.LAJth   iJH  '   A1   c                                fF721                                   Pagei  3 tt '3 
17*0       fJ                                                        L " ~ '. P                                 Table 2
8                               I!9L!A{. AWr F^iFFE,FATEQF!D!Afv                            Fa9e 1 of 3
-3E-; EL 5'UPLE5 A        'lD
LE~~~~~~~ "    8' 4                                                                       b            
~~j;hltib~ ~ ~ ~ ~ bHL4               I.: bE.l                      SiI        ii.       Ii t
, Ehiti& DHiiiANC                                 leSO       1Th5      1321      il.'}      86         0? 4
5OiJ3CEE BI ,iJlLS:
CDI LO!                                                                                  e   ")               790t'  2'  79
RECEIPTS FROM CDMWI1ODOITIES SALE               4,,                  3         39, ',?  i50                    7i
LE'1AN REPAYMENIS RECEIVED 3'                               .2        27                  28 ,                  6
INTEREST PHfMENTS RECEIvED                      14b       21 "0                  '       479       Br.7       678
IHtriPEST GH BANI BALANCE                       134        119        91        C'7
TCTrL SOiiRCES OF FUNDiS                            6t1     i'.,O!     loll      1673       1?54      2026      I174
TOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE                              J541      26t6      2932      2799      2t61       26o7      2371
APPLICATION OF FuND5:
WOKRFING CAPIIAL LDANS 1;                        150      l5$O       IS2'      150       1I0 I(1 1t.
INYESTMEHET LOANS 2                             449       b20        775      8KS        75        6&'2      8S1
GRANIS                       it.'.                                                                   ti i
DEVElOPMENT EIPENSES                             112       10       iii       1'- 1;               182       1727
0ILLAbE SUPPORiT                                  b         E7       9Q         9         h          8bo       68
FIXED ASSETS                                      3?        69.        1!7     136       i_'         "V        1i
REPAYMENTS TO 601:
-PRINCIPAL ANH  INTEREST                      59        jC5      7'         14f        34       36,       432
IDC E'FERATIN6 EXPENSES                                     :s        35        '5        35        75         35
SUBSIDi ON INDIGENOUS POWDER                                          4         4';
BUFFER STOCk OF SHP AND BUTTER OIL                 '                 1''       100       100         7C         0
TOTAL APPLICATiON OF fUNDS                         1176      1545      l8>t      1975       1979      2145      1940
CLOSING CASH.BANI BALANCE                         I1!O       1J21      ;I.-6        64      t39        ^.        431
FOOTNOTES:
1  WIORlNG CAPITAL LOANS INCREASED.
2i SUBPROJECTS ARE FINANCED 70u  LOAN, AND 'f0J  ClIVEN AS A  h  'hu,4T dHICH
IS ADDED TO THE E3UITY OF THE COOPERAT1IES.
3/ RECOVERIES, RELATINe TO THE REDtUCTION 3F SiBSItjlES, FROi
FARMER CONTRIBUTIONS HAVE BEEN EYCLUDED.



-63-                                               ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
National Dairy Development Board
Projected Balance Sheet
(FY Ended March 31 - Rs Million)
iC851Bg   1'I9      199         1991    1992      1993       1994
ACCUMIfULhTED -,N FUNDS
bEIiFFAL hEEERVE`.'INCOME S EiPEWMIIiURE ( iLE 2,                   51        86       110        131       163       201        243
LAhFilL &hhiiJIb 1.                                                139       139       139        139       139        139       139
19b       225       249        270       302       340        382
OJILSEEDS, VEG. OjLS AND OTHER PROJECTS FUND 2! (TABLE 3:             238          0         1         2       391        211       104
ADVAN,CES FROK IIA4N DAIRY CORF'DPHIION
FOR INSTALLA IION OF  RUO.EliTS i;                                135       135       135        135       135       135        135
IOTAL FUNiDS AN4D 0IHER RESOURCES                                     5b9       360        385       407       828       6t6        621
REPFESENIED El:
Fi1ED GhSSEIS                                                         167       209        220       232       238        238       238
CUFRENT ASSOETS:
,NVitNTui11ES UF EC1,0,PEN1 hND
O5.htFiUCTION MATERIALS                                          4         4          4         4          4         4         4
LOANS AND AO,',,ANCELE'                                             46        46        4b         46        46        46         46
,hh. .MShH BAH6NCES  iIABLE 4 i
OILSEEDS. VEb. QiL AN,6 OIHER PROJECTS .0                                             1         2       391        211       104
OTHER                                                          163I       150       163       172        198       236       278
4151      20'       214        224       639       497        432
LE55: F-URR.EN1 L1lIftilIE5                                       4i          49        49         49        49        49         49
402       151       165'       175      5,90       448        383
IOtAL NEr kSSEi   4/                                                  5S°       3 6',     386        407       826       686        621
FWOINOTES:
1/1 LAPITAL 6RANTS FF011 DOI AND PNTER.NA0lNAL hBENLIES, IAItiLt FOR
TRAINING AND RESEAiRH.
2/ FINANCED By THE COOPEkATIVE LEhLGUE OF USAh iLLUSA) ANI C00PER;TI,'E
UNION OF CANADA (CUC[. CASH BALANCES OF FUND HELD SEPARATELL.
3I ADVANCE FOR SUBPROJECT LOANS WHERE PROCUREMENT WILL BE ADMINISTERED
pV ND0B.
4/ NOW INCORPORATING, ADDITIONALLY, IDC (TABLE 2).



-64-                                      -M        
Table 3
Page 2 of 3
NATION. DAIRY DEWONV      T am
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUINT
(Years ended harch 3!st, Rs. Nillion)
1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      194
GRANTS RECEIVED I/                                               39        56       40        52      6b         70        72
SERVICE FEES EARNED 2/                                           74        76       84        87       s8        90        92
INTEREST AND OTHER INCOHE                                        15        14       22        24       27        29       29
tOTAL INCONE                                                 126       146      154       163      183       189      193
DEDUCT: EXPENSES
ESTAB. AND OTHER, NET
OF RECOVERIES                                               54       59        67        75       94        03       82
RESEARCH, DEV. AND TRAINII4G                                  50        58       63        67       67        68       69
TOTAL EXPENSES                                               104       117      130       142      Ii1       151      151
INCOME OVER EXPENSES FOR YEAR                                    24        29       24        21       32        38       42
GENERAL RESERVE/INCOME AND EXPENDITURE
OPENING BALANCE                                               33       57        86       110      131       163      201
CLOSING BALANCE                                               57       86       110       131      163      201       243
FOOTNOTES:
1/ GRANTS EXPECTED FRON 601 AND IDC MAINLY FOR RESEARCH AND
DVELOMT.
2/ MAINLY EN6INEERING 'tS FOR INSTALLATION OF PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
(UNIONS AND FEDERATlnSig. ALSO INCLUDE FEES FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
RELATING TO OPERATIONS.
NATIONAL DAIRY DEVELOPMENT BOARD
DILSEEDS, VEGETABLE OILS AND OTHER PROJECt FUNDS
(Rs. Millionl
"ARCH 318T                                                     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     194
NET PROCEEDS FRON OIL RECEIVED AS GIF1                         2831     3117      3692      4267     4942      4842     4942
601 CONTRIBUTION                                                 37        37       37        37       37        37       37
INTEREST ON BANK BALANCES                                       286      341       366      396       431      471       514
…-        -     -     -    -     -    -     -    -     -    -
3154     3495     4095      4700      5310     5350      5393
DEDUCT: ACCUMULATED DISBURSEMENTS
FIXED ASSETS                                                   7         7        7        7         7         7        7
LOANS AND ADVANCES TO OIL
FEDERATIONS AND UNIONS                                   2861     3440      4039     4643      4864     5084      5234
INVESTMENT IN OIL FEDERATIONS                                 76       76        76       76        76       76        76
LESS: NET CURRENT LIABILITIES                                -28      -28       -28      -28       -28      -28       -28
2916     3495      4094     4698      4919     5139      5289
BALICE iTAdLE 11                                                238         0        1         2      391       211      104



-65-
ANNEX 5
Table 3
NATISIAL DAIRY DEVELOPMENT BOA PRe  3 of  3
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(Years ended March 31st, Rs. Nillion)
1988     1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      194
A. OPENING BALANCE
DAIRY RELATED PROJECTS                                             27        28        15        28        37       63       101
OILSEED, VEGETA8LE OIL AND CtHER PROJECTS                         373       237      -            1         2      391       211
ADVANCES FROM  IDC FOR EOUIPNENT INSTALL.                         135       135       135       135       135       135       135
535      400       150       164       174       589       447
ADD: SOURCES OF FUNDS
DAIRY RELATED PROJECTS:
SERVICE CHAR6ES                                                 74        4         84       87         8e       90        92
GRANTS                                                          39        56        48       52        68        70        72
INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME                                       15        14       22        24        27        29        29
RECOVERY Of EXPENSES                                            26        30        33       37        42        43        44
154      176       187       200       225       232      237
OILSEEDS, VEGETABLE OIL AND OTHER PROJECTS:
PROCEEDS FROH DONATED OIL-CLUSA                                238        89     -         -         -         -         -
PROCEEDS FROM DONATED OIL-CUC                                  389       197       575      575       575      -         -
INTEREST ON DONATED FUNDS                                       77       55        25        30        35        40        43
704      341       600       605       610        40        43
B. TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                            858       517       787       805       835       272      280
C. TOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE (A48)                                       1393      917       937       969      1009       861       727
DEDUCT: APPLICATION Of FUNDS
DAIRY RELATED PROJECTS:
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT TRAINING                               50        58       63        67        67        68        69
ESTAB. AND OTHER OPERATING EIPENSES                             80        89       100      112       126       126       126
FIXED ASSETS                                                    23        42        11       12         6      -         -
153      169       174       191       199       194       195
OILSEEDS, VEGETABLE OILS AND OTHER PROJECTS:
LORNS, GRANTS AND OTHER CIS8.-CLUSA                            451       307     -          200      -         -         -
LOANS, 6RANTS AND OTHER DIS8.-CUC                              306       235      579       396       221       220       150
LOANS, GRANTS AND OTHER D158.-TBCP&FV                           82        37       20         8      -         -         -
839      579       599       604       221       220       150
0. TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                                        992       768       773       795       420      414       345
E. CLOSING BALANCE (C-DI)
DAIRY RELATED PROJECTS                                          28        15       28        37        63       lO       143
HELD FOR IDC FOR EQUIPMENT INSTALL.                            135       135       135      135       135       135       135
163      150       163       172       198      236       278
OILSEEDS, YE6. OIL AND OTHER PROJECTS                          238         0         1        2       391       211       104
401      150        U4       174       589       447      382
DSaXtts--s==t=SS=Z=SVSXuSasas"t-



-66-                              ANNEX 6
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Equity and Grant Financing Under OF III
Expenditure Item a/                    Rs Million      US$ Million
Investment grants towards farmers' equity of
up to 30% for civil works and equipment for
cooperative processing and marketing
facilities.                                              1,886              140
Investment grants towards farmers' equity for
civil works and equipment of cooperative
facilities for semen production, AI and
veterinary services.                                        94                7
Establishment costs (mainly equipment) for
village societies.                                         618               46
Cost of establishing communal fodder
production and animal crossbreeding
facilities.                                                222               16
Pilot FMD vaccination program.                             220               16
Cost of training program, research and
development, technical assistance for
institutional development, monitoring and
evaluation.                                                516               38
Subsidy on price of indigenous dairy
commodities.                                               240               18
3,796             281
a/ Para 6.05 for discussion.



-67-                               ANNEX 7
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Financial Projections of Representative Investment Models
Project investments would range over a variety of new and expanding
processing capacities and feed mills located throughout the country.
Tables 1 to 5 show an average DCS and representative models of typical plant
investments expected. These are summarized as follows:
(a) Table 1 shows a model for an average DCS, with a daily procurement of
105 liters in Year 1, increasing to 159 lpd in Year 5. It would
receive its initial equipment as a grant, and an establishment grant
of Rs 3,000 would be provided to cover its initial losses in Years 1
and 2. Thereafter, its operations would be profitable showing a
financial rate of return of 15%.
(b) Table 2 shows a new 100,000 lpd capacity MPU dairy plant with a
projected investment cost of Rs 40 million and an average utilization
of 76% after Year 6. The model provides for the procurement and
transport of milk from DCSs and chilling centers, and the processing
and marketing of milk and by-products. It would take two years for
construction and commissioning, and after two years of operating
losses, the plant would become profitable. The expected financial
rate of return is 20%.
(c) Table 3 shows an existing 200,000 lpd city dairy plant, first
expanded to 300,000 lpd and two years after, expanded tc 400,000 lpd.
The existing book value of Rs 67 million would be increased by Rs 35
million for each expansion. Capacity utilization would go up to over
90% before each expansion, and while profits would increase, they
would decline in the initial year of each expansion. The cxpected
financial rate of return is 28%.
(d) Table 4 shows one of two large feeder balancing dairy plants planned
under the project. This particular model represents the plant at
Chandinagar with a capacity of 1.1 mlpd, primarily for powder
production, and a peak utilization of 81%. The capital investment
cost would be Rs 400 million. The model shows that the first two
years of operations would show losses, followed by profits
thereafter; the financial rate of return is estimated at 18%.
(e) Table 5 shows a cattle feed plant (with a 10 mt per day urea-molasses
block unit attached) of 100 mt per day capacity. An 81% average
capacity utilization is projected by Year 8. The investment cost
would be Rs 19 million. The pLant would be constructed and commis-
sioned in the first two years, followed by two years of losses, a
break-even year, and thereafter profits. The financial rate of
return is estimated at 16%.



-68-
ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA                             Page 1 of 2
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Projected Operating Statements for Cooperatives
New DCS
(Rs '000)
Year
2       3       4      5
A. Particulars
Income
From milk handling a/                  6.16   7.19    8.17   9.17  10.23
From sale of cattle feed b/            0.10   0.13    0.17   0.22   0.27
Total                                  6.26   7.32    8.34   9.39  10.50
Operating cost
Wages c/                              5.82   6.11    6.42   6.74   7.67
Rent                                  0.35   0.35    0.35   0.43   0.45
Stationary                            0.29   0.29    0.29   0.32   0.34
Supplies d/                           0.31   0.31    0.31   0.35   0.36
Audit fee                             0.39   0.44    0.49   0.55   0.61
Misc. expenses e/                     0.36   0.38    0.39   0.42   0.47
Total                                 7.52   7.88    8.25   8.81   9.90
Operating surplus (deficit)            (1.26) (0.S6)   0.09   0.58   0.60
====    _.==  ===   ==s=   ===5
B. Projected Cash Flow
Sources of funds
Share capital & membership f/           0.72   0.08    0.08   0.09   0.08
Initial support to society g/           5.50       -        -      -       -
Other support to society h/             0.15       -        -       -      -
Establishment grant i/                  2.00   1.00         -      -       -
Operating surplus                           -      -    0.09   0.58   0.60
Total                                   8.37   1.08    0.17   0.67   0.68
Uses of funds
Equipment, furniture                    5.50       -
Education, publication and
extension material                     0.15       -       -       -       -
Bonus to members i/                         -      -   0.13    0.42    0.44
Equity contribution to MPU k/           0.11       -       -       -        -
Operational deficits                     1.26   0.56       -       -        -
Other funds                                 -      -   0.02    0.07    0.07
Total                                   7.02   0.56   0.15    0.49    0.51
Cash surpluses - 1/ for year              1.35   0.52   0.02    0.18    0.17
- accumulated                    1.87   1.89    2.07    2.24



-69-                             ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
Year
1      2        3      4       5
C. Assumptions and Criteria
Farm families m/                        65       72      79      87      96
Cattle
Foundation cows (Nos)                 48      53       58     64       71
Annual yield (Ipy)                16,790  18,980  21,900 24,455  28,105
Crossbred cows (Nos)                   -       -        -       -       2
Annual yield (Ipy)                     -       -        -       -    1895
Buffalo
Buffalo cows (Nos)                    87      94      101    108      114
Annual yield (lpy)                59,495  65,700  72,635 79,205  85,045
Annual production ('000 Lpy)            76.0    85.0    95.0  104.0   115.0
Incremental production ('000 lpy)        3.7    12.7    22.7   31.7    40.7
Procurement by DCS ('000 lpy)           38.3    42.7    47.1   52.2    58.0
Procurement by DCS (average lpd)n/   105       117      129    143      159
Local sale by DCS (lpd) o/               2        4       6       7       8
Cattle feed sold (mtpy) p/               4.8      6.6     8.6   10.9    13.7
a/ Includes commission e Rs 0.05/liter, weight volume difference 2.5% of
milk sold to cooperative union @ Rs 3.15/liter containing 5.7% fat and
8.9% SNF, sample milk sales 1.5% of milk procured @ Rs 1.50 per liter,
local milk sale commission @ Ras 0.50/liter.
b/ Calculated @ Rs 20/mt.
c/ It includes salaries, wages for society secretary and assistants.
a/ Expenditure on glassware, chemicals and supplies required for milk
testing.
e/ Contingency based on 5% of operating cost.
U Rs 11 per member (Rs 10 for 1 share plus Rs 1 for membership fee).
J/  Provided via MPU: (a) travis up to Rs 1,000; (b) first aid kit @
Rs 300 and Rs 700 for veterinary first aid medicines and minor
instruments; (c) milk testing equipment up to Rs 1,000; (d) furniture up to
Rs 2,000; (e) set of registers and sign board up to Rs 500.
h/ Educational/extension posters, materials, etc. as supplied in kind by
NDDB/IDC.
i/ A total grant of Rs 3,000 to be provided in Years 1 and 2 to cover
initiaL operating costs.
i/ As per DCS bye-laws, 65% of the operating surplus to be distributed as
bonus to members in accordance with value of milk supplied after making
provision for education fund.
k/ To purchase 1 share of Rs 100 and membership fee of Rs 5 in MPU
1/  Cash surpluses would represent: (a) funds for educati-n and development as
per the bye-laws; and (b) reserves for expansion, purchase of
milko-tester, etc.
m/ Owning cattle and buffalo and supplying milk to the dairy cooperative
society.
n/ Difference between milk production and procurement represents milk
retained by the producer for family consumption and/or other disposal.
o/ Assumed as 2% of procurement by DCS in Year 1, increasing to 5% in
Year 12.
2/  Based on 125 gms per liter procured in Year 1, increasing to 400 gms in
Year 12.



-70-                                         ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Projected Operating Statements for Cooperatives
100,000 LPD Capacity Dairy Plant
(Rs Million)
VEAR I   YEAR2   YE2AR 3   0EA84 *         EARA 5   YEAR    YEAR 7-20
OPERATIN6 INCOME                       RS.IL
S5ANODARWILD  uLE                     4.30    VL.0O      0.00      S.50    13.20    21.97    32.98        44.38
TONED MILk                            3.90     0.0v      0:.00     2.15     5.33      8.54    12.79       17.09
PROCESSED MIL#                        4.10      0.00     0.00    38.09    45.31    53.55    53.71          55.97
RS. /i1.
6HEE                                 45.00      0.00     "1.00     1.17      2.77     4.60      6.87        9.15
lOTAL OPERATING INCOME                          0.00     v.00    46.91    66.38    88.66   306.35        126.57
OPERATING COSTS
RAN MATERIALS 1T                    RS.lL
RAN MILK                           3.30     0.00      Q.00    24.09    32.34    42.50    48.54         56.27
CHILLED MILk                       3.55     0.00      0.00    13.21    19.45    25.92    32.48         3f.87
TRANSPORTA1TON 2,                 .22-.16       0.00     0.10      1.79     2.24      2.81      3.10        3.29
PROCESSING 3i
DIRECT LA9OR                                0.00      0.00      1.50     1.57      1.68      1.71       2.00
POYER, FUEL AND MAIER              v.12     0.00      o.00      1.32     1.83      2.42      2.e6       3.36
LHEMICALS AND DUALT COINtRO        5.;04    9.00      0.00      0.^.     9.61      0.9I     0.95        1.12
REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE             0.02     0.00      0.00      0.22     0.31      0.40     0.48        0.56
HARWETIN6
MARVETIN6 STAFF SAlARIES           0.00     0.00         0      0.13     0.14      0.15     0.16        0.17
PACkING MAlERIALS 41               0.26     0.00      0.00      0.48      1.14     1.90      2.95       3.82
lRANSPORT RETAIL OUITLEIS 4,       0.v5     0.00      0.00      0.09     0.22      0.37     0.55        0.74
RETAIL COMMISSION 4/               0.10      0.09     0.00      0.18     0.44      0.73      1.10       1.47
ADMINISTRATIVE
$ALARIES OF ADiMIN. STAFf                   0.vv      0.00      v.49     0.SI      0.54     0.56        0.58
COMMUNICATION                               9.09      0.00      0.05     0.07      0.09     0.10        0.12
PRINTING AND STATIONARY                     v.00      9.00     0.05      0.07      0.09     0.10        0.12
MISCELLANEOUS EIPENSES                      0.00      0.00      0.50     0.55      0.60     0.65        0.70
INTEREST ON WORDING CAPITAL       11.5  P.A    L.00     0.00      0.05     0.09      0.12     0.16        0.20
TOTAL OPERAITN5 COSIS                          0.00    0°00    44.59    61.58    81.12    96.35          113.37
OPERATING PRAFIT                               v.99      0.00      2.32     4.80      7.53    10.00        13.19
LESS: INTEREST 5'                               O.Ov     0.00      3.16      3.44     5.46      3.35       3.15
9EPRECIATION o,                          0.9.      V.90     3.3L      3.11      2.93     2.57        2.34
0.00     9.vo      6.51     6.55      6.29     5.92        5.49
NEIT LOSS'PPOFIT                                0.0i     0.00    -4.19    -1.75       1.24      4.08       7.70
:,s:,:tr:-tsrrz:_r::z,:t:::::t:t:ttt:::::stt.t2ta:tssscttststz:::
ASSUt18iO"j MLthliLf ii:     Ohl!
lAPkTAl INVESTMENt                   RS.M          5, S     5.09      2.53      9.0(     0.00      0.0u        V.00
EUIPf'EN,t                                        13.v9     6.50      2.11      v.00     0.00      0.00        0.C
D1STkibullT*N                                      V. '!    3.fiG     1.83      V.63     0.00      0.0        0. N
15tMi                                            I1.vS    35.21       .S3      0.,61     0.00      0.00       0.0O
PlANT C4F,CITI                       MLPD          V.9       0.90     U.lJ0    0.30      0.19      0.10        0.10
UTlLliAlIOb                              I         ;.vV.    V..v    30.19    41.89    55.29    65.32          76.11
FOOFN01,'T:
Ii RAN MlT  AND LHTLiD MILO LO515 AKE fbSE, 09 MlI fhOCUkED WITH 5,.7  FAT AND 8.9 SNF,. PRICING IS LALCULATED ON A
TWO AIIS FOFMULA PIP kG. Of hS.  S.S FOP FAT AND RS. 19.1 fOP SNf.
2. TRANSPOPT LOST PROVIDE fr, COLLECTION OF MIL# Al DCS bi TPUC, AND FROM CHILLING CENTER Of ROAD MILE, TANKER.
PROCESSING COST APE BASED ON ACTUAL EIPERIENCE OF EXISTING iFFICIENT OPERATIONS.
4! PACKING, TRANSPOPT AND COMMISSION COSTS FOR BOTH STANDARD AND TONED MILO.
5S  INTEREST ON INVESTMENT COST IS ON A 70l LOAN /302 GRANT 8ASIS, WITH INTEREST AT 30  PER YEAR ON THE LOAN,
6, DEPRECIATION IS CAL~ULATEL ON T,HE STPAIGHT LIKE BASIS, 5S  FOP CIVIL WORXS AND lOl FOR EUIPRENTI.



-71-
INDIA
SECONO NAIIOAL DAIRY PROJECT                                                    AINEi 7
Table 3
PROJECTED OPERAItIN  StATERENTS FOR COOPERATIVES
CITY DAIRY PLANT I/
IRS. 4Iullonus
U;IT     YEAR I   YEAR 2   YEAR 3   tEAR 4   fEAR 5   YEAR 6    YEAR 7   YEAR 8   YEAR 9   YEAR 10
OPERATING INCOME                            RS./L
STANDARDI1EO "ILK                          4.60   176.30   19q,80   223.31   258.57   282.07    305.58   329.00   352.59   376.10   411.36
TONED  ILLk                                4.15    68.16    77.25    86.34    99.97   109.06    118.15   127.24   136.33   145.42   159.05
RS./R6.
6HEE                                      45.00    33.08    37.44    41.85    48.51    52.92      57.33    61.74    66.15    70.56    77.13
IOTAL  OPERAtINS INCOPE                           277.53   314.49   351.50  i07.05   444.05    481.06   518.06   555.07   592.07   647.53
OPERATIM6 COSTS 2'
RAN MATERIALS                            RS.!iL
PURCHASE OF MILK                       4.10   224.48   254.41   284.34   329.23   359.16    389,09   419.02   449.95   478.00   523.78
PURCHASE OF SlP                        24.00     1.63     1.87     2.09      2.42     2.62      2.86     3.07      3.29     3.53     3.84
TRANSPORTATION                             0.08     4.38     4.96     5.55      6.42     7.01      7.59     8.18      8.76     9.34    10.22
PROCESSING
DIRECT LABOUR                                    2.34     2.45     2.51      2.93     3.05      3.18     3.31      3.75     3.89     4.03
PONER, STEAM ANDf  ATER                 0.10     5.48     6.21     6.94      8.03     8.76      9.49    10.22    10.95    11.68    12.78
CHENICALS, DETEREENT, QUALITY
CONTRtt, EtC.                        0.04      2.19     2.48     2.77      3.21     3.50      3.80     4.09     4.38      4.671    5.11
REPAIRS AMD MAINIEMANCE                0.02      1.10     1.24     1.39      1.61     1.75      1.90     2.04      2.19     2.34     2.56
MARKEIINS AND DISTRIBUTION
STAFF SALARIES                                   0.29     0.31     0.32      0.34     0.35      0.37     0.38      0.39     0.41     0.42
PACKING MATERIALS                       0.26    14.24    16.13    18.03    20.88    22.78      24.67    26.57    27.47    30.37    33.22
TRAMSP.10 RETAIL OOTLETS               0.05      2.74     3.10     3.47      4.02     4.38      4.75     5.11     5.48      5.84     6.39
RETAIL CONMISSION                       0.10     5.48     6.21     6.94      8.03     8.76      9.49    10.22    10.95    11.60    12.78
:ENERAL OVERHEAD
ADMIN.STAFF SALARIES                             0.16     0.79     0.84      u.07     0.91      0.95     0.99      1.03     1.06     1.10
OMNICATION                                       0.10     0.12     0.15      0.16     0.17      0.18     0.19      0.20     0.21     0.22
PRINTINS AND STATIONARY                          O.1I     0.12     o.I5      0.16     0.17      0.18     0.19      0.20     0.21     0.22
MISCELLANEOUS                                    0.90     0.92      1.05     1.50     1.56      1.62      1.68     2.12     2.10     2.29
INIEREST OIN A6. CAPITAL                11.SUpA     0.62     0.70     0.78     0.90      0.99      1.07     1.15     1.23      1.31     1.44
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                266.80   302.02   337.36   390.71   425.92    461.18   496.41   532.33   567.60   620.37
----------------------~ ---- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- - __
OPERtIN6 PROFIT                                       10.73    12.47    14.14    16.34    18.14      19.88    21.65    22.73    24.47    27.16
LESS, INTEREST 3/                                      4.69     5.16      7.21     8.50     9.04      9.54    11.55    13.11    13.95    14.77
DEPRECIATION 4/                                  5.69     5.21     4.77      7.52     6.85      6.2-     5.68     8.34      7.57     6.90
10.38    10.37    11.98    16.02    15.89      15.78    17.23    21.45    21.52    21.67
NET LOSS;PROFII                                        6.35     2.10      2.16     (.32     2.25      4.10     4.42      1.28     2.95     5.49
2:_zs2,zs::zz ;±:Xttt:crac=:_Sxz:ssr;CnCZ;=:c:;:zs z .x.a....s.s.n.....g.... sn      shmfh
ASSUJPIIONS AND CRITERIA:                            tEAR I   fEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR S   YEAR 6    YEAR 7   YEAR 8   YEAR 9  YEAR 10
CAPITAL INVESTMENT IRS. MILLIONI                      66.98     0.00    22.00    12.60      0.00      0.00    22.00    12.60      0.00     0.00
MILK PROCURED 15.57 FAT; 8.61 SNFI(M.LIR.)            54.75    62.05    69.35    80.S0    87.60      94.90   102.30   109.50   116.80   127.75
MILK PRORD IN. 16S.)                                  56.39    o3.91    71.43    82.71    90.23      97.75   105.37   112.79   120.30   131.58
PLANT CAPACItI (000 LPOI                             200.00   200.00   200.00   300.00   300.00    300.00   300.00   400.00   400.00   400.00
MILK PROESSED (I. LTR.I                               54.75    62.05    69.35    80.30    87.60      94.90   102.20   109.50   116.80   127.15
CAPACITY UTILIZATION 2I)                              75.00    85.00    95.00    73.00    80.00      87.00    93.00    75.00    80.00    88.00
SIP REQUIRED (MT/YAI                                  68.00    78,00    87.00   101.00   109.00    119.00   128.00   137.00   147.00   160.00
QUANTITY SOLD
STANDNITkOED MILK (R. LTR.I 4.5YFAT;SNF8.55i       S8.33    43.44    48.55    56.21    b:.32      66.4     71.54    76.65    81.76    89.43
StA#DARDIIED MILK (M. K6B9.1                       39.48    44.75    50.00    57.90    63.16      68.42    73.69    78.95    84.2!    92.11
TONED MILK (i. ITR. (3.05 FAT;8.55 SM??            16.42    18.61    20.81    24.09    26.28      28.47    30.66    32.85    35.04    38.33
TONED OILY IN. KBSl                                16.92    19.17    21.43    24.81    27.07      29.32    31.58    33.84    36.09    39.48
6HEE (MT/YR.?                                     735.60   832.00   930,00  1078.00  1176.00   1274.00  1372.00  1470.00  1568.00  1714.00
FOOTNOTES:
1V MODEL REPRESENTS A 20000 IPO PLANT, FIRST EIPANOED TO 300000 LPD ANO INO YEARS LATER TO 400000 LPD.
BE61NNING INVESTMENT COSTS REFLECT SAMPLE OF EXISTING OERATION.
2/ OPERA11T6 tESTS ARE BASED ON SAMPLES OF O4bDOIN EFFICIENI OPERAIIONS Df SIMILAR IYPE.
3/ INTEREST ON INVESTENTi AT 101 PA; ASSUIN  707 LOAN 4ND 301 GRANT.
4/ DEPRECIATION AT S1 ON CIVIL VORKS AND 20t ON EW IPMENI USIN6 THE NET 000 VALUE KETHOD.
(SMALL DIFFEREHUES DUE tO ROUMDINGS.)



-72-
INDIA                                                ANNEI 7
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT                                    table 4
PROJECTED OPERATING StATEMENTS FOR COOPERATIVES
FEEOER 8ALANCIN6 DAIRY PLANT (6ANOHINAGAR) I/
(Ri. hillions)
YEAR I  YEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5   YEAR 6   YEAR 7-20
OPERATING INCOME                                    RS/L
ByS                                                i.00    30.00   124.10   219.00   262.80   292.00   306.60       307.00
SACHETS                                            4.60    34.50   142.71   251.95   302.22   335.80   352.59       353.00
RS/K6
BUTTER                                            32.00   130.69   199.90   395.91   427.90   471.10   528.19       528.00
SIP                                               24.00    96.31   111.84   233.57   240.72   263.81   305.18       305.00
TOTAL OPERATING INCONE                                    291.50   518.55  1100.23  1233.64  1362.71  1492.56    1493.00
OPERATIN6 COSTS                                     RS/L
RAN MATERIALS                                      4.18   250.80   480.60   918.47  1025.27  1132.07  1243.45    1243.00
TRANORT                                            0.05     3.00     5.75    10.99    12.26    13.54    14.87        15.00
PROCESSIN6
0ILK                                            0.04     2.40     4.60      8.79     9.81    I0.83    11.90       12.00
RS./KG
BUITER                                          0.17     0.69     1.06      2.10     2.21     2.50     2.81        3.00
SHP                                            1.148     4.61     5.35    11.17    11.51    12.62    14.60        19.00
PACKA61NG
SACHETS                                         0.26     1.95     8.07    14.24    17.08   13.98    19.93         20.00
BUTTER                                          0.60     2.45     3.75      7.42     8.02     8.83     9.90       10.00
SIP                                             0.50     2.01     2.33      4.87     5.02     5.50     6.36        6.00
MARKET1ING
COMDISSION                                      0.10     1.50     6.21    10.95    13.14    14.60    15.33        15.00
TRANSPORT-BS                                    0.05     0.38     1.55      2.74     3.29     3.65     3.83        4.00
TRANSPORt-SATCHETS                              0.07     0.53     2.17      3.83     4.60     5.11     5.37        4.00
MAINTENANCE-DvS                                 0.05     0.38      1.55     2.74     3.29     3.65      3.83       4.00
ADMINISTRATIVE                                 LUNP SUN
SALARIES                                                 0.62     1.17      1.23     1.28     1.34     1.40        1.40
COWMICATIOS                                              0.02     0.03      0.05     0.06     0.07     0.08        0.08
STATIONARY                                               o.02     0.03      0.05     0.06     0.07     0.08        0.08
INSURNCE                                                 1.52     3.87     4.00      4.00     4.00     4.00        4.00
.ISCELLANEOUS                                            0.03     0.05      0.06     0.07     0.08     0.09        0.09
INTEREST ON uORKIN6 CAPITAL 2/                LUIMP SU
MILK                                                     0.15     0.25      0.45     0.53     0.59     0.62        0.62
PRODUCTS                                                30.44    11.79    23.80    25.28    27.79    31.51        31.51
TOTAL OPERAtING COSTS                                     283.50   540.18  1027.95  1146.84  1265.82  1389.96    1392.78
OPERATING PROFIT                                               8.00    38.37    72.28    86.80    96.89   102.60       100.22
LESS:  INTEREST 2/                                LUMP SUN    27.19    31.45    35.51    39.07    41.69    41.19        41.19
DEPRECIAIION 3/                                        14.06    30.68    31.97    28.92    26.16    23.67        23.67
41.25    62.13    67.48    67.99    67.85    64.86       64.86
IET LOSS/PROFIT                                              -33.25   -23.76      4.80    18.81    29.04    37.74       35.36
ASSUMPIIIONS AND CRITERIA
CAPITAL INVEST0ENT IRS. MILULON)                               280.00    84.90    22.00    13.10
MILK PROCURED (NILLION LITERS)                                            60.00   115.00   219.70   245.30   210.80      297.50
MILK SALES
BULK VENDING (MILLION LITERS)                                           1.50    31.00    54.70    65.70    73.00       76.70
SACHETS (HILLION LITERS)                                                7.50    31.00    54.80    65.70    73.00       76.60
WHItE BUTtER (METRIC TOM)                                           4084.00  6247.00 12369.00 13372.00 14722.00   16506.00
SMP (METRIC TONS)                                                    4013.00  4660.00  9732.00 10030.00 10992.00   12716.00
PLANT CAPACITY IMILL. LPDI                                        1.10     1.10     3.30     1.10     1.10      1.10       1.10
PLANT UtILIIATION i1l                                             -       31.50    60.20    67.20    74.20    81.50       81.50
FOOTNOTES:
I/ MOEL REPRESENTS A FEEDER BALAICINS DAIRY PLANt 16ANDHIKA6AR  OF 1.1 MILLION LITERS PER DAY. CALCULATIONS ARE BASED
ON THE CURRENT PREVAILINS PRICES MID COSTS FROM VARIOUS IILKSHEOS UNDER THE OPERATION FLOOD PR06At.
2/ INTEREST ON INVESTMENT AT 30? P.A. ASSIIMING 70I LOAN AND 301 GRANT. WORKINS CAPITAL IS CHARGED INTEREST AT 11.51 P.A.
3/ DEPRECIATION At 5  ON CIVIL WORKS AND 10 ON EQUIPMENT AT BDOK VALUE METHOD.



-73-
IKDIA                                                       ANNEI 7
SECOND NAT IONAL DAIRY PRWECT                                            l  5
PROJECTED OPERATINS STATEETS FOR COOPERATIVES
CATTLE FEED PLANI NltH UREA MOLASSES BLOCK PLANT I/
(Ri. millions)
UITI COSI YEAR I  YEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5   YEAR 6   YEAR 7  YEAR 9-20
oPERAIIN6 INCOME                       IRS./mIy
SALE Of CAITLE FEED                     1500     0.00     0.00     9.00    18.00    22.50    27.00    31.50     36.00
SALF Of UREA MOLASSES BLOCKS            1800     0.00    0.00      1.62     3.24     4.32    4.86     5.40       5.40
TOIAL INCOME                                     0.00     0.00    10.62    21.24    26.82    31.86    36.90     41.40
OPERATINs COSIS 2/
LANDED COST OF RAN MATERIAI S 3/
CATTLE FEED                          1040    0.00      0.00    6.36    12.73   15.91    19.09    22.28       25.46
UREA MOLASSES BLOCKS                  900    0.00      0.00    0.97      1.94     2.59    2.92     3.24       3.24
PROlCSSINS COST
DIRECt LABOUR                                 0.00     0.00     0.20     0.34     0.40    0.46    0.52        0.56
POWER, FUEL AND WATER                         0.00     0.00    0.21      0.41     0.50    0.59     0.65       0.70
REPAIRS AD MAINTENCE                                            0.12     0.22     0.22    0.30     0.34       0.39
NARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION COST
PACKINS COST                                  0.00     0.00     1.03     2.06     2.62    3.10     3.57       3.96
TRAOSPORTATION COSI                           0.00     0.00    0.31      0.62    0.79     0.92     t.06       1.16
ADVERTISEMENT COFT                            0.00     0.00     0.03     0.06     0.08    0.09    0.11        0.12
SENiERAL OVERHEAD COSTS
STAFF SALARIES                                0.00     0.00     0.09    0.18    0.23      0.27     0.32       0.34
OFFICE EXPENSES                               0.00     0.00    0.06    0.12       0.15    0.18     0.21       0.23
INTERESI ON VORKING CAPIIAL 4/                0.00     0.00    0.09     0.19     U.14    0.28      0.33       0.37
INSUIRACE 4/                                  0.00     0.00     0.19    0.19     0.19    0.19      0.19       0.19
ROYALTY TO NIOB 4/                            0.00     0.00    0.02      0.03    0.04    0.05    0.05         0.05
TOTAL OPERATING COST                             0.00     0.00    9.69    19.09    23.96    28.44    32.87      36.77
OPERATIINS SURPLUS                                  0.00     0.00    0.93    2.15      2.86     3.42    4.03        4.63
LESSi INTEREST 5/                                   0.00    0.00    1.49    1.59        1.60     1.53    1.46       1.36
DEPRECIATION 6/                               0.00    0.00      1.55     1.41     1.29    *1.17    1.07       0.97
SUBTOTAL                                   0.00     0.00     3.03     3.00     2.89    2.70     2.53       2.33
MET LOSS/PROFIT                                     0.00     0.00    -2.10    -0.85    -0.02    0.72     1.50       2.30
Sat2.nnt-tfl=wflsts .-s..*.*-nanunflflsnsfllsfla-s.
ASSUIPIIQNS AND CRIIERIA               UNIT
CAPITAL INkSITIENI                     RS.N         7.99     7.90     2.71
PLANT CAPACITY                         MT/fl
CATTLE FEED                                      0.00     0.00   100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00    100.00
UREA NOAES BLOCK PLANI                           0.00     0.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00     10.00
GUAllRTT  SOLD                         000 MT/Y
CATTLE FEED                                      0.00     0.00    6.00    12.00    15.00    18.00   21.00       24.00
UREA MOLASSES BLOCKS                             0.00    0.00    0.90       1.80    2.40     2.70     3.00       3.00
BUANTITY PROCESSED                     000  IT/Y
CATILE FEED                                      0.00     0.00     6.12    12.24    15.30    18.36    21.42     24.48
UREA MOLASSES LOCKS                              0.00     0.00     1.09     2.16    2.99     3.24     3.60       3.60
CAPACITY UTILIZATION                       I
CATTLE FEED                                      0.00     0.00    20.40    40.80    51.00    61.20    71.40     91.60
LRA MOLASSES BLOCKS                              0.00     0.00    30.00    60.00    80.00    90.00   100.00    100.0
FOOTNOTES:
I/ MODEL BASED OW A 100 Yl/D CAPACITY CATTLE FEEO PLAT WIITH A 10 NT/D UREA MOLASSES BLOCK PLANT ATTACHED.
THE PLANT WOULD OPERATE TWO 8-NO  SHIFTS FOR 300 DAYS PER YEAR.
2/ OPERATING AND OTHER COSTs BASED ON CUNRET EIPERIENCE OF EIIStINS EFFICIENT OPERATIONS.
3/ RAN MATERIAL COSTS ALLON FOR A 2t LOSS 11 THE SASE OF CATTLE FEED PLANT  I 202 LOSS IN TIE UREA MOLASSES BLOCK PLANT.
4/ INTEREST ON WRINS CAPITAL I 11.5t PER YEAR1 INURACE At  11 ON CAPITAL COST AND ROYALTY OF It OF
UREA MOSSSES SLOK SALES PAYABLE TO NoIl.
5/ INTEREST ON INVESTMEIT AT 101 PER EAR, ASSIINING 701 LOAN AND 301 GRANT.
6/ DEPRECIATION AT 52 01 CIVIL WORS AND 101 ON EgUIPENT, USING THE NET BO  VALUE METHOO.



-74-
ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Marketing, Pricing and Production Cost Analysis
A. Market Assessment
1.      Consumption Levels.  Official statistics estimate that 1985-86
national milk production amounted to 42.s million metric tons of liquid milk,
about 98% of which was buffalo or cow milk. 1980-86 average imports of milk
products represented the equivalent of about 300,000 tons of liquid milk per
annum. Based on these quantities, per capita consumption would have been
about 150 gms/day of liquid milk equivalent. Per capita consumption was about
135 gms/day in the 1950s but fell to 110 gms/day by the late 1960s due to
population growth outstripping supply. While subsequent reversal of these
trends made it possible to halt rationing of urban milk supply in the mid
1970s, current average consumption levels are still below the minimum level
recommended for a balanced diet by the Indian Council of Medical Research (180
gms/day), and the average disguises significant regional and income group
differences, in particular the very low consumption levels of the poorer
segments of the population.
2.      Demand.  Demand prospects are strong, based, firstly, on population
growth of 2.2% per annum overall (3.9% ir. urban areas, 1.6% in rural areas),
and, secondly, on the low current base of consumption levels and the high
income elasticity of demand for milk and milk products. Various surveys have
indicated an aggregate income elasticity in India for milk and milk products
exceeding unity. Based on projected income trends, these factors point to a
probable growth in demand in the urban sector of around 6.5% per annum and
in rural areas of about 2.5% per annum. Table 1 projects urban and rural
demand using a range of growth assumptions likely to envelope future pos-
sibilities. Under the point estimate, future overall consumption would grow
at about 4% per annum. A plausible high case assumption could result in a 6%
per annum growth in overall consumption. A less likely low case assumption in
Table 1 would result in consumption only growing at about 2% to 2.5% per annum
(if demand only grew about in proportion to population growth).



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Table 1: PROJECTIONS OF MILK CONSUMPTION
Percent
1987 a/    mnual    1994
____ ____ ____ ____ _ _ _  Growth
Estimated
Pop-lation (million persons)
Urban                            207         3.9     271
Rural                            590         1.6     659
Overall                          797         2.2     930
Consumption b/
Urban
high growth                    15.6       9.0      28.4
expected growth                15.6       6.5      24.2
low growth                     15.6       4.0      20.4
Rural
high growth                    29.1       4.0      38.1
expected growth                29.1       2.5      34.6
low growth                     29.1       1.5      32.3
Overall
high growth                    44.7       5.9      66.5
expected growth                44.7       4.0      58.8
low growth                     44.7       2.4      52.7
a/  Base year consumption refers to 1987 estimated trend level
consumption including imported milk.
b/ Million tons liquid milk equivaletnt.
3.      Sources of Supply.  It is estimated that about 35% of milk production
is consumed in urban areas (26% of the population). Of this, OF cooperatives
supply about 20%, with the balance provided through traditional private
traders predominantly supplied by peri-urban and urban based milk producers,
plus a small number ot private dairies (less than 1% of urban milk supply) and
by government managed milk schemes and dairies (21 of urban supply). The
traditional sector of small private vendors dominates aggregate urban milk
supply. While the dairy cooperative sector has grown rapidly in importance,
and in some urban areas now occupies a sizeable and sometimes majority share
of the market, supply and demand projections indicate that, in aggregate
terms, the traditional sector will remain, at least over the next decade, the
dominant source of urban supplies. Growth of the cooperative sector has,
however, substantially increased supply of milk in urban areas and has intro-
duced an important competitive force providing marketing alternatives for
farmers, competitive pressures on farmgate prices offered by the traditional
sector, and market limits on price hiking by the traditional sector of con-
sumer milk prices. Likewise, a continued strong presence in urban areas of
traditional vendors provides a yardstick for the efficiency and price levels
of the cooperative sector.
4.      Supply.  Actual growth in national milk production is assumed to have
been around or slightly in excess of 4% per annum (as compared with the 5%



-76-
ANNEX 8
Page 3
growth implied by official statistics). This conforms with the estimated
growth in consumption and the stability of milk imports; production has
appa:ently kept pace with and slightly exceeded estimated consumption growth.
Factors responsible for aggregate growth in production have been milch animal
population growth (about 1% and 2.5% per annum for cattle and buffaloes
respectively) and increased availability of :odder as byproducts from crop
expansion, together with factors significant at subsector/sub-regional levels
such as the impact of the cooperative and state dairy development programs on
genetic improvement and on feeding and management practices.
5.      Imports.  Imports of milk products (mainly skimmed milk powder and
butter oil for reconstitution as liquid milk) increased through the 1960s,
but over the past 25 years have remained at about the same level, averaging
36,000 tons in total per annum with annual variations reflecting market needs
and seasonal influences on annual production levels. Import levels from
1980-81 to 1985-86 represented the equivalent of 300,000 tons of liquid milk,
0.75% of current national production and less than 10% of the current
throughput of India's dairy processing industry. Expansion of national
production, and in particular of the dairy processing industry, has resulted
in substantial decline in India's dependency on imports; thus, in the 1960s,
imports represented 1.4% of production and 40% of dairy industry throughput
with progressive decline to today's levels during the 1970-86 p'_riod.
6.      Market Expansion Prospects.  The current 8 mlpd output from the OF
cooperative sector amounts to about 3 million tons per annum and is expected
to grow under the project to 5 million tons (13.7 mlpd) by 1994 (7% growth per
annum). Urban consumption is anticipated to increase from the current 15.6
million tons to about 24 million tons by 1994 (Table 1), with the cooperatives
slightly expanding their proportional share of the market. Even under the low
case assumption of growth in urban consumption (4% per annum), supply of urban
milk from non-cooperative sources would need to expand from 12.6 million tons
to 15.4 million tons, or by 3% per annum. This demonstrates both the capacity
in aggregate terms for absorption of cooperative sector milk supply, and the
demands that are likely to persist as concerns future expansion of the tradi-
tional milk vending sector.
7.      Cooperative Marketing.  In practice, cooperative marketing would be
focussed on a subset of urban centers. Target consumption centers would be
the four metro cities (33 million persons currently) where cooperative fresh
milk marketing increased by 6.5% per annum over the 1980-86 period, and other
large urban centers. About 230 towns, with an overall population of some 90
millions have populations exceeding 100,000. It is in these centers where
cooperative marketing has experienced the most rapid growth in recent years
(over 30% per annum growth in fresh milk sales over the 1980-86 period). NDDB
marketing projections are based on market assessments in 143 of these urban
centers (predominantly in towns with cooperative dairies). Fresh milk sales
in these towns are projected to increase from 6.8 mlpd in 1987 to 10.3 mlpd by
project completion, a growth of 8.5% per annum under NDDB's targeted five year
dairy expansion period, or of 61 per annum uvder the more conservative seven
year implementation period assumed for the project. As illustrated in Chapter
7, Table 1, the main market expansion is expected in the smaller townis, Addi-
tionally, marketing of milk powder for use in lean season reconstituted milk,
baby food and other dairy products, and by the armed services, is targeted to



-77-                              ANNEX 8
Page 4
expand by 1.0 mlpd liquid milk equivalent. A further 0.7 mlpd of liquid milk
is targeted for high margin milk products (fermented products, butter,
flavored milk, yogurt, cheese, ice cream, etc.) which are proving popular and
have good growth prospects. (Detailed market projections in Project File).
B. Analysis of Production Costs and Prices
S.      Farm Production Costs.  Farmgate production costs, based on the
production budgets at Appendix 1, are summarized in Table 2 below which also
shows average sale prices obtained for the regions and milk qualities (fat and
SNF content) compared. Costs include the full cash equivalent value of all
feed (e.g. green and dry fodder, crop by-products, concentrates) and labor
used, and other cash and non-cash expenditures (e.g., animal investment costs,
calf rearing, medicines and veterinary services, incidental expenses). In
practice, actual cash outlay costs, particularly for households possessing
some land and with underutilized family labor, tend to be much lower. Physi-
cal and price data are based on NDDB data, data from research institutes and a
variety of independent field studies and from field data collected by the
mission. Where data were imprecise or inconsistent between different sources,
conservative (high cost) assumptions have been made. The results show that
although costs, in particular of feed (the largest element of costs), are much
higher for crossbred cows and for buffaloes, the significantly higher yields
that are obtained result in crossbred cattle and improved buffaloes having the
lowest production costs. Revenues exceed costs in all cases; only marginally
for local cattle, substantially (1 70%) for crossbred cattle and by about
40-50% for buffaloes.
Table 2: INDIAN FARMGATE PRODUCTION COSTS
Average     % Margin
Production Cost (Rs)       Farmgate    of Sale
Animal/Production            Per Liter  Per Kg          Sale Price  Price over
System & Region              of Milk    of Fat          Per Liter   Production
of Milk     Cost/Liter
Cow
Local
Gujarat                2.24     46.9            2.53            13
Madhya Pradsh          2.09     47.3            2.71            30
Crossbred
Gujarat                l 115     37.9           2.53            68
Tar'1 Nadu             1.64     41.7            2.74            67
West Bengal            1.63     40.8            2.83            74
Buffalo
Local, T. Nadu             2.14      34.7            3.03           42
Improved, U.Pradesh        2.06      29.4            3.12           51
Weighted Average a/             2.10     39.0
a/  Based mainly on local cow (nearly 40X of national milk production) and
unimproved buffalo (nearly 60X of national production).



-78-
ANNEX 8
Page 5
9.      Processing and Marketing Costs.  Costs from farmgate to the consumer
are summarized at Appendix 2. An efficient farmer-managed cooperative system
entails total costs of milk collection, pasteurization, packaging and delivery
to consumers of about Rs 0.76/liter, plus an average of about Rs 0.15/liter
for milk grid marketed milk. Average cooperative costs are higher, amounting
to about Rs 1.3/liter (including milk grid marketing costs). Dairy processing
costs are similar to those in Europe and the USA. Efficiency levels are
broadly comparable with the greater intensity of labor usage in India offset
by lower labor prices and capital intensity. Collection costs in India,
however, are higher, especially where intermediate chilling is required and
DCSs are dispersed (Table 3).
10.     Comparisons with Other Countries.  Table 3 compares Indian costs and
prices with those from other key producing regions. As data for other
countries were obtained from a variety of official sources and comparative
studies, comparisons are indicative rather than ex .ct but cost definitions
are broadly similar; they include variable and fixed costs but exclude
entrepreneurial margins. Prices are adjusted to approximately similar fat
and SNF content milk. As concerns Indian milk, the most useful cost
comparisons are with prices in US cents, allowing tor the'estimated shadow
conversion rate between the rupee and US dollar. Farmgate production costs
in India are almost half the costs in the USA and EEC, though about one third
greater than in new Zealand. With the inclusion of transport, processing and
marketing costs, average costs of milk marketed through tie milk grid in
India are still some 20% below European and USA costs, though about 55%
higher than New Zealand costs. Entrepreneurial margins as determined by the
respective price structures are lower in India, resulting in farmgate prices
(compared at official exchange rates) being about 30% lower than in Europe or
the USA and similar to those in New Zealand. Indian consumer prices are
nearly 40% lower than consumer prices in Europe and the USA and 30% lower
than in New Zealand. India can, thus, be seen to be an efficient milk
producer with average production costs lower than in Europe and comparable to
those in the USA (lower if allowance for the equilibrium value of foreign
exchange is made), and with farmgate and consumer prices lower even than
those in New Zealand. New Zealand is a country with high comparative
advantage in milk production based on year-round availability of abundant
natural pasture and a highly developed dairy husbandry and processing
technology. India's economic efficiency as a milk producer is essentially a
product of the Indian milk production system, a subsidiary activity in the
rural economy closely integrated with crop agriculture and using low cost
feed and labor. At the farm level, technical efficiency as measured by
yields remains low. There is, therefore, ample scope for further improve-
ments in the efficiency of Indian dairying and for continued competitivity
with other producing countries.



-79-
ANNEX 8
Page 6
Table 3:  COMPARATIVE MILK PRODUCTION COSTS AND PRICES
(US cents/liter)
Production Costs                      Prices       a/
Country           Farmgate    Costs of        Total      Average   Average
Production  Collection,  Production   Farmgate  Consumer
Costsb/   Processing      Costs
and           to
Marketing      Consumer
India
Rs 13.5/US$
efficient costs      12            6          18            18        29
average costs        16           10          26            18       29
Rs 16.9/UC$ d/
efficient costs       9            5          14            14        23
average cost         12            8          20            14       23
New Zealand                 9            4          13            18c/      43
USA                        20            5          25            24        47
EEC                        22            6          28            25        47
Japan                      61            5          66           N.A.      111
Australia                  13          N.A.        N.A.           18        43
Switzerland                27          N.A.        N.A.           41       N.A.
Sources:  FAU, USDA, New Zealand dairy industry statistics; Indian data
obtained as described in text. Full details in Project File.
a/ Indian production costs are based on average costs of Rs 2.1/liter
farmgate and Rs 1.3/liter processing and marketing.  "Efficient"
production costs are Rs 1.6/liter farmgate and Rs 0.8/liter
processing and marketing (Table 2 and Appendix 2). Average Indian
production costs are based on higher value milk (8.9% SNF and 5.7% fat)
than average milk from the comparator countries. Indian prices are
adjusted to standard milk qualities (8.5% SNF, 4.5% fat) comparable to
output from comparator countries. Indian standard milk prices iverage
Rs 2.42/liter to farmgate and Rs 3.9/liter retail.
b/ Reported farm gate production costs in other countries are:
Argentina, 18; France, 18; Ireland, 16; Necherlands, 23; and
W. Germany, 21 (in US cents/liter)
c/ Average ranges from US$0.10 to US$0.23 per liter, depending on whether
sales are for industrial/export purposes or for domes.ic liquid milk
consumption.
d/  Lsti'mated shadow exchange rite.
11.     Impact of Subsidies.  For all countries, costs and prices in Table 3
include the influence of subsidies, taxes and protectionist or other price
support measures. Direct subsidies to t:e Indian cooperative dairy sector
have taken the form of subsidized interest rates (until now at 8.5% as com-
pared with an estimated opportunity cost of capital of 10%), and provision of
grant elements in financing of infrastructure development, cooperative
development and some input services. Grants amounted to about 45% of 1980-81



-80-                                  ANNEX 8
Page 7
to 1986-87 OF expenditures. Actualized over the estimated life of the invest-
ments, these amount to Rs 0.045 per liter,l/ plus Rs 0.015 per liter in
interest rate subsidies, or Rs 0.06 per liter in all (less than 1%
average production costs). Various levels of net subsidization exist in other
countries, (with the principal exceptions of New Zealand, although dairy
investment interest rates have historically been subsidized). In the EEC and
USA, the net impact of subsidies, either through trade measures or domestic
support programs, is estimated by FAO to have averaged in the 1979-80 to
1984-85 period 69% and 9%, respectively, of the domestic producer sale price
of milk. No comparable trade protection impact figure is available for India,
though CIF reconstituted New Zealand milk imported at the official exchange
rate, would require a tariff of about 30% to bring its price up to Indian
ex-dairy prices.
12.     Comparison with Traded Milk Prices.  As a milk importer, the oppor-
tunity cost of expanding Indian dairying versus the alternative, increased
rc4iance on imported milk, can be assessed by comparing Indian production
costs ith the costs of commercially importing milk.2/ Table 4 summarizes data
from Appendices 3 and 4 relating Indian prices with the costs of commercially
importing milk from the EEC or New Zealand. Import prices are based on the
lowest 1986 commercial invoice prices from these countries for exports of
skimmed milk powder and butter oil. These prices re lower than the prices
imputable from the producer prices in the EEC and New Zealand due to the
practice of dual pricing used by exporting countries. Exports are priced
lower than rates in the local markets with domestic consumer prices subsidiz-
ing export prices. As summarized in Table 4, ex-dairy Indian milk is two
thirds the cost of commercial imports of EEC miLk 3/ and 29% more than New
Zealand milk at official exchange rates. Using a shadow exchante rate
(Rs 16.9 per US$1, about 25% above the official rate), Indian milk is only
marginally more expensive (3%) than reconstituted New Zealand milk imports.
This marginal difference is more than compensated by Indian market preferences
as reconstituted milk is not comparable in value to fresh milk. The Indian
consumer shows a marked preference for fresh milk necessitating, even in
deficit metro centers in the lean season, limitations in the percentage of
milk from reconstituted sources that can be mixed with fresh milk. Indian
1/ Out of Rs 1,997 million of total expenditures under OF II during the
1980-81/1986-87 period, 45% or about Rs 900 million were funded through
grants with an actualized value (10% compound) at the mid period of
the investment life (1994) of Rs 2,390 million. 1986-87/2,002-03 milk
processed by such investments would amount to 8.5 mlpd or 52,742 million
liters (17 years)
2/ Comparison of marginal costs would be most appropriate but would not be
far from the average costs used here. For the OF cooperative sector,
average costs are well above the costs of the most efficient cooperatives
and farmers, and OF III places emphasis on improving efficiency levels of
existing cooperatives. Marginal costs of expansion can be expected to be
at or lower than average costs.
3/ EEC milk priced at invoice prices paid to supplieis. The EEC then injects
a subsidy to bring export prices down to near New Zealand or GATT prices*



-81-                                ANNEX 8
Page 8
domestic production can therefore be seen to be competitive with imports
through commercial international milk trade; a trade which already involves
preferential (i.e. below cost) pricing.
13.     Some milk is also traded through commodity aid arrangements.  Given
the substantal milk price and subsidy distortions existing in most countries,
excess production in such regions as Europe may continue for some time to come.
In India's case, this situation has been used by the EEC and India to a very
positive effect through commodity aid linked with the OF program. Nevertheless,
for milk production strategy purposes, Indian planners do not consider that the
opportunity cost of domestic production should be based on the assumption of
long-term continuity of such imbalances. Firstly, continued policy distor-
tions in ott.er countries are prudently not assumed in perpetuity for long-term
planning f domestic production. Secondly, the usage of commodity aid or
imports at highly subsidized prices is only a marginal solution representing
very small percentages of current domestic production and projected increases
in consumption.
Table 4: COMPARISON OF DOMESTIC PRODUCTION COSTS WITH COSTS OF
IMPORTING MILK
Rs/liter
Indian Milk
Average producer price a/                                              2.42
Average costs from producer to Delhi Dairy                             0.60
Domestic production costs delivered metro dairy b/                     3.02
EEC Milk
At metro dairy reconstituted (official exchange rate) b/               5.23
New Zealand Milk at metro dairy reconstituted b/
At official exchange rate                                           2.39
At shadow exchange rate                                             2.94
a/ Adjusted to 8.5% SNF, 4.5% fat basis. On same basis for foreign
reconstituted milk.
b/ Before pasteurization and packaging in all cases.
14.     Domestic Pricing.  Despite rationing and Government price limiting
practices, the scarcity of milk through the 1970s resulted in consumer prices
for milk and milk products rising at 9.6% per annum in the 1965-75 period,
slightly greater than the rate of inflation (8.6%). In the 1976-85 period the
rate of increase in consumer milk prices fell to an average of 6.4% annually,
slightly greater than the rate of growth in cereal prices (5.6%), which has
also fallen, and at a lower rate than the annual increases in the general and
food price indices of about 8% per annum. In recent years, cooperative sector



-82-
ANNEX 8
P_age9v
producer prices have risen at about the same rate as consumer prices, typi-
cally by 6-7% per annum in the 1982-86 period. In aggregate, producer and
consumer price changes have thus been about in line with or slightly lower
than the rate of inflation. This generally satisfactory aggregate situation
nevertheless includes some significant distortions due to local Government
interventions in fixing producer and consumer prices, which - particularly in
the cases of Calcutta and Delhi - also involves substantial subsidies injected
at the level of metropolitan dairies. The objectives of some states to
provide across the board price subsidization as a consumer assistance
strategy has proven an ineffective mechanism of reaching poverty target
groups. Benefits accrue to all and disproportionately to wealthier (and,
hence, higher consumption) income groups.  Where assessed as desirable, it is
instead recommended that state governments consider injecting subsidies in
the form of targeted product differentiation or food stamp systems. In
general, where centralized administration of prices has been practised by
state or municipeL governments, it has proven unwieldy and unresponsive to
market forces ard overly oriented to short-term consumer interests. As an
important general principle, prices should instead be left to be freely
determined by the cooperative entities in response to market forces.



-83-
ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Cost of Milk P-oduction Under Various Agro-Climatic Conditions /a
Local Breeds                     Crossbreds
Improved
Cows          Buffalo            Cows              Buffalo
Gujarat  MPradesh  TNadu   Gujarat  TNadu  WBengal  UPradesh
INCOME:
Total Milk Yield
(liter)                1040.3    1095.0   1277.0   4260.0   3800    3900    2575.00
Total Fat (kg)             49.8       48.5      78.8    170.4    150       156      180.25
Income (Rs) from:
Milk                   2264.3    2967.5   3869.3  10650.0  10412   12240    8498.00
Sale of Male Calf        75.0       75.0         -    200.0    150       150           -
Sale of Cow                 -          -         -         -      -        -           -
Manure                  475.0      475.0    475.0    600.0    600        600      500.00
Total Income (Rs)        2814.3    3517.5   4344.3  11450.0  11162   12990    8998.00
COSTS:
Feed Cost:
Adult                  1314.0    1294.0   2166.2   4494        4384    4669    4234
Heifers                 325.0      306.0    250.0    990        945      930      250
Male Calves              50.0       50.0         -     50        50       50        -
Total Feed Costs         1689.0    1650.0   2166.2   5534        5379    5449    4484
Vet & Miscellaneous        50.0       50.0         -    100        50      100      100
Interest on Capital        24.0       24.0      24.0     48        48       48       48
Labor                     570.0      570.0    490.0    770        770      770      660
Total Costs              2333.0    2294.0   2730.2   6452        6247    6367    5292
Loan Repayment            300.0      300.0    300.0    600        600      600      600
2633.0    2594.0   3030.2   7052        6847    6967    5892
Net Income                181.3      923e5   1314.0   4398       4315    6023    3106
Cost per Liter
of Milk/day            2.24/b    2.09/b   2.14/d   1.51/b   1.64/b  1.63/b  2.06/d
Cost of Pat/kg           46.85      47.30    34.65    37.86    41.65   40.80   29.36
Estimated Producers'
Sales Price (Rs/liter)
4% fat & 8.5 SNF /c   2.53         2.71     3.03      2.53      2.74    2.83   (3.12)
Buffalo 7% fat &
9% SNF
Ta  Data sources as described in Project File.  Cost data is taken in the fifth
year of a ten year cash flow statement and exclude sale of cows.)
/b Butter fat of 4%.
7T  IDC Monthly Progress Report, average prices, Nov.1986.
Td Butter fat of 7X.



-84-                           ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Costs of Milk Collection, Processing and Marketing
(Rs/liter)
High            Average
Efficiency           for
Cooperative       Cooperatives
DCS Costs al                                           0.08                0.15
Milk Collection and Chilling b/                        0.07                0.21
Rural Milk Plant c/                                   (0.09)              (0.09)
Milk Grid Transport d/                                (0.15)              (0.15)
Mother Dairy Pasteurization & Packaging e/            0.58                 0.58
Retail Commission f/                                  0.03                 0.10
Costs Locally Marketed Milk gl                        0.76                 1.04
Costs Milk Grid Marketed Milk g/                       1.00                1.28
a/  Labor, capital and operating costs for collecting and testing m.lk.
b/ Actual cost in Kaira is Rs 0.07 per liter.
Average cost based on Rs 0.15 per liter average collection costs plus
average 40% milk through chilling centers at Rs. 0.15 per liter.
c/  Reception, chilling (60%), pasteurization, storage, and placing in
tanker.
dl  Costs from Gujarat to Delhi.  Longest distance covered by milk grid is
Cujarat/Calcutta (Rs 0.38 per liter).
e/  Based on Mother Dairy, Calcutta costs.
f/ Average retail commission of Rs 0.10 per liter for sachets and
Rs 0.03 per liter for vending booths.
All costs include depreciation and overheads.  Full details in Project
File
N.B.: For Table 3 of this Annex "efficient" costs are taken as Rs 0.76 per
liter expressed in U.S. dollars and "average" costs inclusive of
milk grid costs at Rs 1.28 per liter.
June 1987



-85-                      AMsUx 8
Appendix 3
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Estimated Price of Coimercially Imported BEC Milk 1/
(Ws per mt)
Skimmed Milk Powder      Butter Oil
Price 1/                                         2,1750                 60,696
Documentation 2/                                    168                     168
Sea Freight 3/                                    1,881                  1,617
Marine Insurarce 4/                                 364                    676
Subtotal                                      24,163                 63,157
Unloading and Loading S/                             96                     96
Customs 5/                                          150                    150
Storage, 1 Month 5/                                  45                    100
Unloading and Loading 5/                             96                     96
Transport 5/                                        550                    600
Unloading  1                                         48                     48
Loss and Waste 6/                                   652.5                1,820.88
Overhead 5/                                         250                    250
Subtotal                                       1,887.5                3,160.0
Total                                         26,050.5               66,317.0
SMP - 8.51 x 20                                    2.2143   plus
BO  - 4.51 x 20                                                          2.9843
Subtotal
Reconstituting prior to pasteurization              .036
Price per Liter 7/                                 5.2346
1/ The price paid to suppliers in the EEC. Exporters sell either at
comercial rates or (in the case of :ommodity aid) provide products free.
The difference between the commercial (or market) rates and the price paid
to sv.ppliers is made uip to exporters by a subsidy provided by the European
Cr:;nissions. The prices used are the lowest invoiced price of skismed
'Ailk powder and butter oil of EEC milk converted at official exchange
rates. Price is lowest in the past two years.
2/ Documentation fees included on each invoice. This price converted
at official exchange rates and is the lowest in the past two years.
3/ Seafreight prices included on SOL and ship?ing documents and is
the lowest in the past two years ('85 and 86); converted at official
exchange rates.
4/ Marine Insurance included on SOL and shipping documnets; lowest in
'85 and '86 and converted at official rates.
S/ These costs are standard costs 4uring the past two years.
W/ Loss and waste is calculated at 3g.
i/ Price is calculated as at Delhi dairy prior to pasteurization.
June 1987



-86-
ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Estimated Price of Imported New Zealand Milk
Skimmed Milk Powder                   Butter Oil
Rs Converted at:                Rs Converted at:
Official    Shadow              Official    Shadow
Exchange   Exchange             Exchange   Exchange
NZ $      Rate /1    Rate /2   NZ $        Rate /h    Rate A
Price                   1,650.0   11,055.0   13,818.8  2,050.0   13,735.0   17,169.0
Documentation              25.0       167.5      209.4      25.0      167.5       209.4
Sea Freight               350.0    2,345.0    2,931.2    350.0    2,345.0    2,931.3
Marine Insurvice           53.3       358.4      448.1    101.0       676.7       845.9
Subtotal                2,078.5   13,926.0   17,407.4  2,526.0   16,924.0   21,155.0
Unloading & Loading                    96.0       96.0                 96.0        96.0
Customs                               150.0      150.0                150.0       150.0
Storage 1 Month                        45.0       45.0                100.0       100.0
Unloading & Loading                    96.0       96.0                 96.0        96.0
Transport                             550.0      550.0                600.0       600.0
Unloading                              48.0       48.0                 48.0        48.0
Loss & Waste                          331.6      414.5                412.1       515.0
Overhead                              250.0      250.0                250.0       250.0
Subtotal                            1,566.7    1,649.5              1,752.0    1,855.1
Total                              15,493.0   19,057.0             18,676.0   23,010.0
SMP - 8.5% x 20                      1.3169     1.6198               0.8400      1.0355
BO -  4.5Z x 20                      0.8400     1.0355
Reconstituting                       0.0360     0.0360
Price per Liter prior
to Pasteur:.zation 3/             2.3861      2.9412
1/ NZ $1 = Rs 6.7
2/ NZ $1 = Rs 8.375
3/ Similar assumptions to Appendix 3
June 1987



-87-                                             ANNEX 9
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRV PROJECT
Indic tora of OF's Rural Poverty and Social Impact
A. NOOB 1984 Census of DC5 Village at
Landholding Category
Landless   0-2 5   2.5-S   6-10    10 *        All
Acres   Acres   Acres   Acres
Total number of families ('000)                          2,131      1,690   1,025      65'     508   6,012
Milch animal owning families ('000)                        770      1,052     799      559      446   3,624
Animals ('000)                                           1,390      2,091   1,932   1,651   1,877   8.941
OCS member families ('000)                                 489        677     526      371      299   2,362
# Total families by land holding                            35         28       17      11        9     100
Y Families owning mi1ch animals                             36         62      78       87'      89      60
Average No. of Animals per mitch animal owner b/           1.8        2.0     2.4      2.9     4.2      2.5
% Total families that are DCS members                       23         40      51       S6       59      39
S of milch animal owners that are OCS members               63         64      66       66       67      65
Y DCS members that are women  c/                            17         16       15      13       11       is
S OCS members that are scheduled castes or tribes           37         17       10       6        5       18
S Total families that are scheduled castes or tribes         8          7       5        4        3       8
a/  NDOD  Society Village Enumeration, 19C4.  A census in 20.386 DCS villages spread over 108
milksheds in the country encompassinG six million households (all households in each DCS village).
b/  Buffaloes and cattle; males and females  if all ages.
c/ Mostly households without male heads. In mixed households, women frequently handle the bulk of
dairy activities.
S. R8I 1972 Survey Data: Milch 4nimal Ownership by Income (Assets) Group
(S distribution of milch animal holdings and # of househo!da reporting
ownership of milch animals by docile groups of rural households classified
according to value of asset, 1971-72) al
Docile                        Cumulative                 Y of Households
Group                     % Distribution                 Owning Mi1ch
of                              of                       Animals in
Households                     Milch Animals                 Each Docile
Bottom 10%                          1.0                          4.7
10-20%                          4,9                         16.2
20-30                          12.0                         34.4
30-40%                         20.4                         38.3
40-50%                         30.5                         44.2
50-60%                         40,8                         49.4
60-70%                         54.9                         62.4
70-80%                         65,9                         52.8
80-90%                         A.4 9                        82.3
90-100%                       100.0                        173.8
Overall                       100 0                         47.7
a/  Reserve Bank of India, Department of Statistics, All India Rural Debt and
Investment Survey (1971-72) Special tables on Livestock. Agricultural
Machinery and Implements



-88-                                  ANNEX 10
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Value                                Incremental
Added of                                Variable
Rural Milk    Value of                   Costs of    Incremental
Procurement  Incremental                Collection,       Farm                 Incremental
to Urban       Milk      Investment  Processing &  Production   Extension         Net
Year    Retail      Production      Costs       Transport       Costs        Costs    Benefits
a/            b/            c/            d/            el          f/
1          0            0           736             0            0            0         -736
2        438          204           907           234          153           29         -681
3        876          511         1,062           467          383           58         -583
4      1,314          715         1,051           701          537           88         -348
5      1,752        1,022           972           934          766          117          -15
6      2,190        1,329           824         1,168          996          146          385
7      2,628        lj533           704         1,402        1,150          175          730
8      2,793        1,840             0         1,490        1,380          186        1,577
9      2,793        2,146             0         1,490        1,610          186        1,653
10      2,793        2,453             0         1,490        1,840          186        1,730
11      2,793        2,657             0         1,490        1,993          186        1,781
12      2,793        2,964             0         1,490        2,223          186        1,858
13      2,793        3,270             0         1,490        2,453          186        1,934
14      2,793        3,577             0         1,490        2,683          186        2,011
15      2,793        3,884             0         1,490        2,913          186        2,088
16      2,793        4,190             0         1,490        3,143          186        2,164
17      2,793        4,497             0         1,490        3,373          186        2,241
18      2,793        4,906             0         1,490        3,679          186        2,344
19      2,793        5,212             0         1,490        3,909          186        2,420
20      2,793        5,519             0         1,490        4,139          186        2,497
Internal Rate of Return of Net Streams:  27.01X
a/  Computed against incremental milk procurement due to the project at
Rs 1.5 per liter.
b/  On basis of 1.SZ per annum growth in productivity (over and above without
project productivity growth). Value of farmgate milk (average fat/SNF
content) of Rls 2.8 per liter.
3/  Net of tax project investment cost (excluding training, research,
consultants and M&E).
d/  Computed against incremenel milk procurement due to the project at
Rs 0.8 per liter (net of tax variable costs of milk collection,
processing, transport and retailing; average for metro cities and
regional urban centers).
e/  At Rs 2.1 per liter computed against incremental production.
f/ At Rs 0.1 per liter (variable costs and costs of equipment replacement
for animal productivity enhancement support services).



-89-                             ANNEX 11
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
OF Dimensions by State
(Status of Dairy Cooperative Development as of March 1986)
Producer       Milk
State/Union Territory          MPUs         DCSs      Members       Procurement
(No.)       (No.)      ('000)       ('000 lpd)
Andaman/Nicobar                   1           20            1              1
Andhra Pradesh                  10         3,158          280            591
Assam                             1          125            1              5
Bihar                            4         1,030           22             24
Goa                               1           76            7             11
Gujarat                          16        8,356        1,194         2,262
Haryana                         11         2,867          153            166
Himachal Pradesh                 2           100           10             11
Jammu/Kashmir                    1           100            4              8
Karnataka                       11         3,215          481            525
Kerala                           2           535           88            103
Madhya Pradesh                   7         2,283          103            193
Maharashtra                      18        2,775          667          1,759
Orissa                           4           352           14              9
Pondicherry                       1
62          12             16
Punjab                          11         4,094          221           427
Rajasthan                       16         3,834          223           656
Sikkim                           1           112            3              3
Tamil Nadu                      12         49953          728            743
Tripura                          1            75            4              3
Uttar Pradesh                   27         3,719          211            335
West Bengal                      6         1,024           56             35
TOTAL                     164       42,865        4,483          7.886
===     =====-       _=Z5=     ~ ~~~~~ ==-Z



-90-                              ANNEX 12
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Contents of Project File
A. NDDB/GOI Reports
1. OF-III Proposal, September 1985.
2. NDDB Working Papers:
- Volumes I-IV, December 1986;
- Volumes V-II, January 1987;
- Volume VIII, February 1987;
- Volumes IX-X, April 1987;
- Miscellaneous Papers, February 1987; and
- Miscellaneous Papers, April 1987.
B. Detailed Project Cost Tables
1. Five Year Implementation; and
2.  Seven Year Implementation.
C. Dairy Productivity Components
1. Basis for Project Cost Tables
2. Basis for Milk Procurement Estimates
D.  Dairy Processing, Storage and Distribution Components
1.  Basis for Project Cost Tables
2. Basis for Milk Procurement Estimates
E. Training Guidelines.
F. Terms of Reference for Research Studies.
G. Milk Production Costs and Pricing.
H.  Marketing Guidelines and Market Assessments.
I. Disbursement Profiles for Indian Dairy Projects.
J. Field Notes
1. Gujarat
2. Maharashtra
3. Kerala
4. West Bengal
5. Madhya Pradesh
6. Uttar Pradesh
7. Tamil Nadu
K. Supplementary Charts
Chart 31119.4 NDDB Organizational Structure - 1986
Chart 31119.5 IDC Organizational Structure - 1986
Chart 31119.3a Implementation Schedule (five years)
I



-91-
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Operatlon Flood Project Authority
(1986)
Members Secretory, Plonning Commission
Secretary (Expenditure). Mlnistry of Flnonce (MOF)                    Function: Overoll Pollcy Decisions
Secretary (Economic Affairs) MOF               Steering Committee             and Coordination
Secretory (Agriculture). Mlnistry at Agriculture
Chalimon, NDDBflDC
i                                                   * 1
Functionol DMsions     I      Regional       I I          Functional Divisions          Regionol
Baroda                    omces                           Anond                     Offmces
-Prolect Evaluation and Appralsal   -Bombay              - I  -Farmers Organization           -Bombay
-Monitoring and Loan Portfolbo      -Calcutta      I I  --ngineering                          -Calculta
Manogement                                                       &D                          -Delhl
-Finonce                            -Madras        |     Monpower Development                 -Eangalore     t
-Commodities                                             -Marketing
-Plonning/Manogement Economics
-Monitoring & Evoluation
,                                      l I  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~Marketing
I  P*urchose
I  r-omputer SenAce
M   I                            .Adminitration
MAJOR FUNCTIONS                                                                                 MAJOR FUNCtl
I Finoncing ot Cooperatwe Dairy                                                                 i. Provide Technkal, Engineering,
Development                                                                                     Advisory, TraWng. Research and
2 Subproject Appraisol, Implementation.                                                            Support Srvces to State Fedwatlons/MPU
Supervision and Monitoring                                                                    2. Prepore Ste Feasibiliy
3 Procurement and Distribution of                                                                  Reports Suitoble for
Dairy Commodities. Both Commercial                                                              Appraisal by IDC and Make
and Food-Aid                                                                                    Recommendatons to
IDC on Release of Funds.
3 Specialized Procurement
implementing
Agencies
World Bank-34119:1



-92-
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Project Implementing Agencies
COMPOSIMON                                                                                        FUNCTIONS
i. Mik Ptoduco  Feder at.ns
2. Mluk Poduters Uniors i They Ropresent Whole or Most of         Notint Cootov Dairy
sateiUnlon Tenotmis                                                FederatNon of India
3. NDODBIDC                                                               INCDFI)
4 Cholrmcn/MD of Each Aftloted FEDNnion                                                       I. Coll8ayboisfAslst In Formulation of Pohclrogroms tor Cooperaive
2 One Nominee of NDOD                                                   Genral Body              Do   eiiomn
3. One Nomiin of (dC                                                                          2. AsIt In Determining Murketing Policies ond Serve as Coordinatino Body
(Chhman Ebced by Members of the Genrd body)                               ChoirMan              for Milk Miarketing
1 Chaiman                                                                                     3. Operate or Sueso   Opertion of Notional Milk Gnd
2. Chalrman/CEO of Each FEDIUnlon                                                             4. Aut Members In Obtolnbg Technic  Ond Other Assistonce/Consultont
3 Three Nomie of NODB                                                  oard of Direct            Sobivks
A. One Nominee of [DC
6. MD exoifflco)
(Appolnted by Boord on Recommendation 01 GOO                          Managing Dirdct
State Dairy Fedeation   |      Sefve os Ape% Orgonition for Dalry Development
I2. Overal Coordlination and Supeovsion
Charman Elected From Among the Board Members                              Charman             3 H . Atronge tot Supply of Centralized Technicld input
14. Arrange for Continuous and Concurrnt AudIts
Boord of Directors Elected By the Chairmen of the                     Board of Dretors        S Market MM   Products Outside of State
-         AffIloed MPU                                                                   6. Libe with NCDR
Managing Director
Chairman Monoging Dlrector o Federollon                  -                    I
Members- Mcbo,yng DheclontGmerul Maaoo of AO|             m  Cot-    ee  |                    1 Ads Board Ir Policy Formukaton/rImplementation
Dcary Pkmnts/MP
Chairmon Elected From Among the Bord Members for                     Mik Producers Union
i-Year Term                                                      (MU)
1 Orgaonze ond SupervIse DCS
Chairman      ~2. Own aid Operat Dairy Plards and Chlting Centers
________________    3. Procure. Proce  and Market Milk in Mitished
Board of Directors Elected from Among te ChiOrmen of Member DCS for   Boord f Otrectors       4. Train DCS Stff ond Management Commfitee Members
3-Yarw Tim  ith K Members Retrig Evey Year in rot-                            S. Provlc4 Technicl iput and Other Service To DCS
tbn. Also incudes Nomne  of Regitrar ot Cooperatives .reor
Nominee Coopted Frorn Federawon and Manogi.ngD
DlfeotoY
Dairy Cooperate Society
Choirmon/President Elected From Among The Mana9geent Committee              (DS               1 Procure Mik From Members
Members For 1-Year termt                                                    2 Effct Regulr Payment to Producers
Cb=airmanlPreldent      3. SeOl Balanced Caltie Feed and Fodder Seeds
4. Se Mk to MPU ond to Village Houseols
Manogement Committee Members Eected From Among DCS Members for    Management Commr-ie         5. PrOvide Al and Vetenry Srvs to Members
3"Year lerm with Vs at Membes Reilrlng Every Year                      6. Comnmunicate Cooperaotve and Technica Intormotion to Members
Producet Members
World Bank-3111912



-93-
INDIA
SECCND NATIONAL *AJRY PROJECT
ImplrmentIaIIC Schedule
.o~~~~. 330c433.*3 34 ~    ~            U,             37             $3              $2 4343349
UU' Pl£C154.m                         ?.44
320~ ~~~~~~"                                         7              43             40             2
co~ 1322c- 
N4321 4'                                          __u J 44                                 __.,  1  4                                          21
PtV,( *,"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~47                                      VA             It                                             i
C0@24X 41s 4:33                                                   -               -              _-                              -              -
l~~~~33*41~~~~~~~ 32.3(433.~~0494                                                                 33322
C43363r4 44o  1?3                    WeO                    __ __ ____                           __4
4*346_- 4446A33 fo4  4644    4 ___ __
3..
C<¢l d 11____p _ __
f.,: Crt.,Ja  41                                _      _44     _                                              _       _
CAt       ' fflD P..
C4f.4433'0( V> 1.,_,_ 43                                                  _       _2_2
44AM*%4W32kOC. 13414
i -2 -                                                              4               2W"
C3.3v330                                  __ __ __ _   _I  L  -___
410143 0* 34.13T
CC^gI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4                        I      43              *3 4~ _ _?                                    43 _
S.             3.              3,             2              32              33             32
33'04,333  04 1Z4  M34S1               3 2 ,         _                     _1_ l                               _       _4 _
4104                            33                                                         -       
3*N. 00(3.323*3441040                          . V                                                                                              2
- --
34o4h-w - C<?root                          -              -                              m                              m0              m
P4e4*I.43e30   do3.. 1'4 3,_2                                    _                    _ _           _                     -_
Vl                                                        3
441 . Co        * d 4 1 3              32                  4 t2 _ _ _
,V ¢4   i      q              _ 3             _       __
tV-4
M      0M Q 4ln   043A   4
DC$                      WM M0                          33                           3'              I2A                            33
33..,src 1<.9  C034_42 _1144*
41 1'*.,4e  'itb-                 -S  - - -                                             N
tt 3l Ceo34-hZ                                    _ 
4*33 .       d iq*,0 3.  nt15      1
Coo4,433, 414*-                                                  1-.33                                                             -
rl~~~~~~~~~~~ c                                       4        i      c              4                                              3 
i_7,33  41 3*                          32
1.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4*3~~~~~~~. w 3.0,,.  4



I r   f  * z    t   HhIMCHAL                        INDIA
- r ; jbopaf<v ~~~~~~PRADESHiINDIA
,) JABLM IOOO                       SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
.300                              f/UNJAB                                      NATIONAL AMLK GRID, 1986              3W
PAKISTAN         j                     __                 / 
/      ~h m b ' 9C    H                                                           N    A
N                                            NEPAL
//                       11E  R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{   howBHUTAN
(-~~  RAJAST         ~UTTARASM
'5 ~~~R AJA S TWAN   jaipu -  @ ,§o 
(          Jo~w, JodhptwPRADESH                                                      .
/    m~~~~~~~ Swefi ~~~~~~~~ME  HALAYA
/  Ud*4-
11 AS        BANGLADESH
GUJARAT                                              Jcib
Ganchinaga  or   Y      Ujidn                                              ]- Ats
Ar  bd                 MADHYA          PRADESH
2C                                                                                                                   2W-
,.~~~~~~~~~~~A~  n ;       &Kin4' A  -f 



"'M
> t E~~~~~ EAkR                                   N : ., - 
200                  Qc~MAHARASHA t    ;
'l t;,r3edas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SoXpSowiw
g;--;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(oo of arrw corsod tocoo
Nal~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                          aina  aia
-0mramnabod ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Wenfinl ondre
o, be., prww0ANDH
\ g ) ' < ~~~~~~~PONDICHERRY
GOA.J   PRADESH
eARA H- .ATAK                                                                        NDDB REIONS
HNorwS                                                         0      000
LANKA_MILK SUPTY GRID-
ha~~~,w~~Femame~ ~ ~                   C ywe,,
uw pxsgmwu as t. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     Due~coo of caleo consiesaton sw wew couldor
C  o- e .w ^'v ~-of re                                                                          gion of supply ori0sn)
cai*             TA,M LRegukDHr  supl Flow
z - Pe~~~~,. ,2 + / --_ ~~~~~~Seasonal Suppiy Flows
KE*ALA. 
}0b                   p"_ }          i;'P"                                                  1  hbf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ero Ctfiftie 
.,a be4c .                                                                  State or Union Termitory Capitasi
'00  .80 0                                                                           900 @ Natonal Capital
rZ  o ~~~~~~~~~~ ' ~~~~State or Union Teritory Bouners
AQw  m   J                               _  _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~bdental 8nxkies
rho pf.d ew*- sta W=kff
rd iwmha                                                                           SRI                          o      WDo   2a      300    41    sX
onO  WdW&* nC                                                                       LANKA.o 5
eF   rot nbW ew* VW dNW
ftiew-6" Fewo croa                                                                                                           Dto scae cosklera    sm *v  Wm  a
OF eV bm   or NW                                                                                                                be ;ukid in Hma;s tte  for fr
C                   I                                                                 ort 



7w-              }       PRJ IHIAACHAL N                   NDI A
,J   ""        s            SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
JPUNJA                         DAIRY COOPERATIVE STRUCTURE,
PARTICIPATING FAMILIES AND
r "f , r ~MILK PROCUREMENT IN 1986
PAKISTAN                                     /
E All012vl,53lt6 t                  , C   H  I  N  A
N   ORTHERN               ~~~NEPAL
/AJASTAN E*r                    P\ UAR                               BHUTAN
t  (               ~~~~N O R T   E R N                      -          =SBUA|
RAPi J A S T HAN 1b1 J,>t,@  ,  tuNClGriowe    $   t<_         t       \/ASSAM
PRADESH
1 H ~A   BANGLADESH
G UJ.ARA T
MADHYA       PRADESH
W ES TERFN
20                     ~~~~~MAHARASHTRA
Bomba)WO



Gondb,nogar@                                              7     I
M ALDHYA              PRADCESH
W            E    e SS Tv E! R@fe N,                                                         \4 1
MAHARASHRA                                                   i 
Bo,ba%,2, 
ANDHRA
< PONDICHERRY
5           ;7          jl~~~~~~0]32it 5918
E    NDDB / IDC Headqurters
jj4I )                 . g     P R A D ES5 H                                      0    NDDB / IDC Regional Offices
1 0.0.. 7                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDDS REGIONS:
RKANATAKA                  [-   NotSr
S O U\  H E R N                                                      I   Nohe
_ _                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eastemn
[I)] flWestern
OPERATION FLOOD DAIRY
COOPERATIVE STATISTICS:
Number of Akic Producers'n oUon
T A M    IL  PONOICHERRY                   ~~~~ ~~~~~Number Of Dairy Cooperative  f000
T A MIL          PONDICHERRY                              P&x Mebes.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~ [10.06 1?  16J  4
.NADU    ,                                          s   State or Ur  Tenikory CotSto
.   - ,-'6 NotionalpCl
' ;i;l- State r Unon Teitowy Boundaris
InU ational Boudaries
the m ce Os  P                                              ' ' ' 
nd no   X NW& mOV- a
NW No 640_dkvW A~ SVRI                                                                                         0     too   200    300   400   504
uftd~~~~~~~ SW  ,w ,1                                                                                          *            J
an VW mw cb no MW m ft                                                            LANKA                                      KatET
W ofTe 11 agt sWtm
co NW $efflory e la                                                                                                       be   d  in Om ap e etext fa a
fWacalotswedf                                                                                                       hd ca ll n  hat m ay   app*y   to   s i  are e._
_~~~~W s                                                                                                                                                           9



