Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16218
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1859-IN/LOAN 2893-IN)
JANUARY 14, 1997
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 13.50 = US$1.00 (Appraisal: November 1987)
Rs. 22.00  = US$1.00 (Intervening years: 1988-95)
Rs. 34.5() = Completion year: 1996
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
I kilogram (kg) = 2.205 pounds (lb)
I kilometer (km) = 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 meter (m) = 3.281 feet (ft)
I square kilometer (kM2) = 0.385 square miles (mi2)
I liter = 0.264 gallons
I metric ton (MT) = 2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
Apnrl I to March 31
Vice President                   D Joseph Wood
Director                        R. Drysdale
Division Chief/Manager      :   S. Barghouti
Staff Member                    Herman van Wersch, Pnnc. Operations Officer



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHID                Animal Husbandry Department (in the states)
Al                  Artificial Insemination
AMUL                Anand Milk Union Limited
CDP                 Cooperative Development Program
CFP                 Cattle Feed Plant
DCS                 Dairy Cooperative Society
EEC                 European Economic Community
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
EU                  European Union
FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations
FMD                 Foot and Mouth Disease
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
GOI                 Government of India
HF                  Holstein Fnresian
ICB                 Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                 Intemational Development Association
[DC                 Indian Dairy Corporation
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
LPD                 Liters Per Day
MIS                 Management Information Systems
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MLPD                Million Liters Per Day
MPUI                Milk Producers Union
NCAER               National Council of Applied Economic Research
NCDFI               National Cooperative Dairy Federation of India
NDDB                National Dairy Development Board
NDP-I               First National Dairy Project
NDP-I1              Second National Dairy Project
NMG                 National Milk Grid
OF                  Operation Flood
ROI                 Retum on investment
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SF                  State Federation
SMP                 Skimmed Milk Powder
SNF                 Solids Non Fat
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
TMDD                Technology Mission for Dairy Development
UAS                 Uniform Accounting System
UHT                 Ultra High Temperature
UMB                 Urea Molasses Block
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onry in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otheruise be disclosed iLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1859-IN/Ln. 2893-IN)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ..................                            ....................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ............................................................. . ...... ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................................1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................................................1
Statement of Project Objective ......................................................................                                                         1
Evaluation of Project Objectives ..................2..............................................                                                            2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .............................3.........................3
Physical Objectives .....................................................................                                                                     4
Financial Situation of Participating Entities ................. .................................   12
NDDB's Role and Performance .....................................................................    15
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT .....................................................................                                                                                          17
D.  PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY  ..................................................................... 18
E.  BANK  PERFORMANCE .....................................................................                                                                                     19
Identification and Preparation .....................................................................                                                           19
Appraisal .....................................................................                                                                               19
Supervision ...................................................................... 21
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE .....................................................................                                                                                   22
Preparation.                                                         ..................................................................... 22
Implementation .....................................................................                                                                         22
G.   ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME .........................................                                                                   ............................ 24
H.  FUTURE OPERATION .....................................................................                                                                                     24
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .24



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1         Summary of Assessments ..........................................   27
Table 2         Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................   29
Table 3         Project Timetable ..........................................   30
Table 4         Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .............  31
Table 5         Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ..........................................  32
Table 6         Key Indicators for Project Operation . .........................................   33
Table 7         Studies Included in Project ..........................................   33
Table 8A        Project Costs ..........................................   34
Table 8B        Project Financing ..........................................   35
Table 9         Economic Costs and Benefits ..............                     ............................  35
Table 10        Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................   36
Table 11        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................  38
Table 12        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............                    ...........................  39
Table 13        Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................                           39
APPENDICES
A.    Aide-Memoire ..........................                                                                 40
B.         Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation  ..........................   55
C.        NDDB's Role and Performance  ..........................   58
D.         Borrower's Evaluation Report ..........................   66



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1859-IN/Ln. 2893-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second National
Dairy Project in India, for which Credit 1859-IN in the amount of SDR 121.2 million
(US$160 million equivalent) and Loan 2893-IN in the amount of US$200 million were
approved on December 15, 1987 and made effective on April 8, 1988.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1994 as originally scheduled. Final
disbursement from the Credit, which was fully disbursed, took place on July 28, 1993. The
Loan was reduced by two cancellations, US$53 million in September 1995 and a further
US$29.9 million in June 1996. It was closed on April 30, 1996, compared with the original
closing date of December 31, 1994. Final disbursement took place on June 24, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by an FAO/CP mission'/ which visited India in
May/June 1996. It was revised by H. van Wersch (Agriculture and Water Operations
Division II) of the South Asia Region and reviewed by S. Barghouti (Chief, Agriculture and
Water Operations Division II) and K. Uchimura (Project Adviser). The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR through the project evaluation report prepared by
the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), as well as NDDB's comments on the
mission's aide-memoire and the draft ICR. The ICR is based on a review of the Staff
Appraisal Report and legal documents, supervision reports and project files as well as field
investigations and discussions with Bank staff, officials of NDDB, and the participating
state dairy federations, milk producers unions and dairy cooperative societies.
" Messrs. K. Selvavinayagam (Financial Analyst, Mission leader), J.A. Phelan (Livestock Industry
Specialist) and Ms. Frances Sinha (Cooperatives Management Specialist, Consultant).






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1859-IN/Ln. 2893-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.         The Bank has been associated with the Indian dairy sector since 1974 when it
approved three state-level projects (Karnataka Dairy Development Project for US$30.0
million, Rajasthan Dairy Development Project for US$27.7 million and Madhya Pradesh
Dairy Development Project for US$16.4 million), and the National Dairy Project for
US$150.0 million in 1978, followed by the Second National Dairy Project for US$360
million in 1987.
Project Objectives
2.         The Second National Dairy Project (NDP-II) was designed in support of the
third phase of Operation Flood2 (OF III), India's dairy cooperative development program,
building on the experience of the three state-level projects and the first national level
project. The objectives of the Second National Dairy Project were to promote the
establishment of viable cooperative businesses owned and managed by producers, for
collecting, processing and marketing milk products in order to expand rural incomes and
improve milch animal productivity. These were to be achieved by: (a) expanding and
consolidating the integrated cooperative institutional structures; (b) providing the necessary
prerequisites for milk productivity enhancement; (c) establishment and expansion of milk
collection, processing, storage and distribution activities; and (d) strengthening institutions
and training.
3.         Loan covenants. Special legal covenants or agreements that were expected to
promote the achievement of project objectives were for the Government of India (GOI) to
cause participating states to ensure that state federations, unions and societies follow
/  The beginnings of India's dairy cooperative development are in the Kaira district of Gujarat and the
establishment in 1946 of the Anand Milk Union Limited (AMUL) responding to the limited
marketing opportunities for traditional milk producers in the face of the marketing practices of a
private dairy monopoly. Operation Flood (OF) built on this experience when cooperative dairy
development became an agricultural development priority in the national development plan. The first
phase (OF I) covered milksheds in ten states during the period 1970-77, followed by OF II in 1978-86
extending the program to cover virtually the entire country.



111
Operation Flood conditionality and for NDDB to ensure that state federations, unions and
societies function under by-laws and charters consistent with OF principles.
4.         Evaluation of project objectives. The project, based on the sound foundation
of improving rural incomes and milch animal productivity through the integrated dairy
cooperative structures for the production, collection, processing and marketing of milk and
milk products, was important for the Indian dairy sector. Although the design was based on
the well-tested, locally developed 'AMUL' model, the appraisal mission was overoptimistic
in assessing the rate of change of state governments to the concept of farmer control at
various levels of the cooperative structure, though the SAR highlighted this as a major risk.
The project was also complex as it involved many states which have their own priorities
and commitments, in addition to the scale and spread of project activities which called for a
level of high-quality management which many federations/unions found difficult to
command. Significant implementation delays or shortfalls in achievements were foreseen
at appraisal. A longer-than-normal implementation period was therefore regarded as
acceptable if it helped promote institutional changes to ensure the long-term viability of the
dairy cooperative sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.         Physical implementation of the project was slower than envisaged due to the
delayed start in some of the participating states. Nevertheless, the project, by and large, has
achieved its physical, sectoral policy, financial and institutional development objectives in
Gujarat, but only partially in other states. Although they were not stated objectives under
the project, gender issues and equity have received substantial support, particularly during
the later years of project implementation. While the evidence is not systematic and varies
considerably across areas, mission findings from field visits and from various sample
surveys indicate that dairying has made a significant contribution to the incomes of small,
marginal and landless farmers. The dairy societies provide a market outlet which is much
fairer to the milk producers than the private vendor although the societies are not (usually)
able to displace fully the pattern of informal credit which binds poorer milk producers to
private vendors. In addition, women are increasingly enrolled as members (and in some
cases in the managing committees as well), in line with state policies and the objectives of
the Cooperative Development Program of NDDB. The delicensing of the dairy sector in
1991 had a negative impact on milk procurement by the cooperative sector. As a result of
this and other factors, the current estimate of the project's economic rate of return is 21
percent, down 6 percent from the appraisal estimate of 27 percent. Both appraisal and
completion estimates are more speculative than usual, because they incorporate projected
returns to investments not yet completed.
6.        In major states, the dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been generating
surpluses while the performance of many district milk producers unions (MPU) and state
federations (SF) is still unsatisfactory, although they have shown improvement in recent
years. At project completion, profit-making units have risen to 63 percent, compared to 50
percent at appraisal. As under the predecessor National Dairy Project (NDP- 1), NDDB was



iv
the primary implementing agency. Over 70 percent of its staff have degree or post-graduate
level qualifications, leaving no doubt as to the professional competence of NDDB staff.
The promotion aspect of NDDB's lending activity acts as an essential catalyst for
development and not merely as a conduit through which lending resources pass. NDDB in
this way has an impact on tangible factors such as proper management practices and
appropriate levels of technology. NDDB's continued claim on a significant portion of
GOI's scarce development resources calls for a more critical analysis of its operations and
in particular of the allocation of resources placed at its disposal. Its overall financial
management has improved and is now generally sound. A principal finding is that NDDB
should be encouraged to find ways to further improve its operations rather than that it be
dismantled.
7.        Project sustainability. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is
sufficiently robust to suggest sustainable economic performance. The major challenge to
the sustainability of the dairy cooperatives is their rational development with proper staffing
and maintenance of a sound financial structure to ensure solvency and liquidity for
commercial survival. This requires that the entities are owned and directed by farmers
under some form of participatory decision-making mechanism assuring autonomy in
pricing, investment and marketing decisions, efficiency in production and processing, and
guaranteeing better incomes to farmers and the lowest possible price to consumers. These
conditions exist in Gujarat but only partially in the other states. Consumer prices in metro
cities such as Bangalore, Calcutta, Hyderabad, Madras and New Delhi are administered. As
these prices are not likely to be increased in the immediate future, the options available to
the federations/unions are to introduce cost-saving measures, better management practices
and expansion into high-value product lines. These steps must be complemented by
measures for enhancing animal productivity, training and technical assistance to cooperative
societies, improvements in financial management, and better market promotion.
8.        Development of fully sustainable operations in a consumer industry requires
the involvement of a regulatory body to assure product quality. Thus far, NDDB has
performed this function. However, as the apex institution of the cooperative dairy system,
responsibility for quality assurance as well as other industry-related issues constitutes a
conflict of interest for NDDB. Government needs to establish an industry body, of which
NDDB would be a member, to look after such matters. Operating costs of such a regulatory
body would need to be shared between the industry and government.
9.         Actual cost, financing, and implementation timetable. At appraisal, it was
estimated that the project would be completed by December 31, 1994. Current estimates
indicate that final completion is not likely to be before June 30, 1997, although the Credit
was closed on April 30, 1996. The final cost of the project is now estimated at Rs12,553
million (US$503 million) compared to the appraisal estimate of Rs9,150 million (US$678
million), representing a 37 percent cost overrun in nominal rupee terms. The Credit was
able to finance about 66 percent of total actual expenditure compared to 53 percent of the
project costs at appraisal, mainly due to an increase in the disbursement percentage.



v
10.       Key factors relating to achievement of project objectives. The most
important shortfalls which hindered project implementation can be classified into:
Factors not generally subject to Government control. These
included employee unrest, though short-lived, in a few unions.
Factors generally subject to Government control. These included
delays in land acquisition, lack of reliable electricity and water supply,
failure or delay in full adoption of OF principles, heavy accumulated
losses and poor financial position of SFs and MPUs in some states,
and lack of freedom in setting prices in many states.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. These
included delays in appraisal of sub-projects, delays in the
implementation of institutional strengthening measures such as
monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
11.       Performance of the Bank and Borrower. The performance of both the Bank
and Borrower has been mixed. Both have satisfactorily carried out project identification
and preparation, and appraisal was also satisfactory, overall. Supervision of the project by
the Bank received inadequate attention while covenant compliance by the Borrower has
only been partial.
12.       Project outcome assessment. The project outcome is rated satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
13.       Findings. The institutional, managerial and technical adjustments promoted
under the project have helped the dairy sector to improve its performance and set the stage
for sustained development of a competitive commercially-oriented domestic dairy industry
able to respond to increasing domestic demand for milk and milk products. The project's
re-estimated economic rate of return is robust. A matter of particular concern is the still
poor, though substantially improved, financial performance of many state federations and
district unions. Continuing emphasis is required on the commercial and financial viability
of cooperatives. Equal emphasis, if not more, is required to sustained measures aimed at
enhancing milk yields. NDDB is aware of these shortcomings and has initiated programs to
address these issues. Given the quality of its senior management and its competent and
loyal staff (many counting over 20 years of service), NDDB's continued attention to these
issues is likely to be assured.
14.       Plans for completion of OF II objectives and future operations. NDDB has
indicated that it will: (a) help completion of all unfinished sub-projects by June 1997, and
make available adequate funds for this purpose on a full loan basis at an annual interest rate
of 14-15 percent; (b) continue the cooperative development program covering selected



vi
DCSs; (c) intensify its efforts to rehabilitate selected state federations and MPUs on the
lines adopted in Mysore union; and (d) encourage cooperatives to upgrade their
productivity enhancement programs. While the Tamil Nadu federation and unions have
utilized their own funds to carry out sub-projects as a result of the embargo on fund release
to that state by NDDB, Maharashtra which has sub-projects that are incomplete due to their
late start-up is reluctant to accept funding on a loan basis at 14-15 percent p.a. The subject
is under discussion between the concerned states and NDDB.
15.       Lessons for future projects. The main lessons learnt are:
(a)   In any project involving farmer-controlled cooperatives, an understanding
of the proper role of government in project implementation is crucial.
Project design should explicitly take this role into account. The AMUL
model, a successful experience in milk collection, processing and
marketing, controlled and directed by farmers in Gujarat, was considered
feasible for replication in other states which had different cooperative
traditions and culture. The model hinges on autonomous farmer control at
DCS, union and federation levels. Many other state governments do not
fully support the concept of farmer control at the union and federation
levels. The requirement of state guarantee for loans taken by unions or
federations has not helped the development of a "hands-off' policy of state
governments. It would, therefore, appear that a successful expansion of
AMUL principles throughout the country requires, in the final analysis, a
supportive role by governments to the cooperative movement such as
presently enjoyed in Karnataka and Bihar. Accordingly, the bank might
have taken a tougher line during project supervision in scrutinizing sub-
project appraisals rejecting those of states which did not meet an
acceptable level of compliance with the institutional requirements of the
project.
(b)   In a sheltered industry, promotion of competition is essential to enhance
operating efficiency. Although private competition has adversely affected
cooperative milk procurement in the early years after delicensing, it has
helped to raise cooperatives out of their complacency and acted as a spur
to efficiency in many cases, forcing them to contract out some of their
activities to the private sector like milk transport, packing and
maintenance of factory gardens.
(c)   In project design, especially in the case of complex development
programs, particular attention should be paid to assessing the existing
situation and to devising ways to overcome or manage existing
impediments. In NDP-II, the quality of management was perceived as a
principal risk, thus requiring special attention.



vii
(d)   Development of fully sustainable operations in a consumer industry
requires the involvement of a regulatory body to assure product quality. At
present this role is performed by NDDB. However, there is a conflict of
interest between NDDB's function as the apex body for the dairy
cooperative system and an industry-wide regulatory function. Most of the
dairy plants visited made heavy demands on NDDB for technical
assistance in all aspects of the dairy sector. There was general agreement
that the industry would meet some of the costs of a separate regulatory
body. However, the Government must also make a contribution to the
agency which would be responsible for maintaining quality standards for
technically guiding the industry, and for ensuring that good manufacturing
practices are applied throughout the dairy industry.
(e)   Government commitment to resolving sectoral and state-wide issues is
critical to the successful project implementation and operation. In NDP-II,
solutions to some problems depended on the willingness of state
governments to address difficult issues which could not be resolved at
project level, e.g. adoption of OF III principles, pricing decisions,
amendment to State Cooperative Acts and reduction in staffing.
(f)   State governments must be fully involved in the design of reforms
sponsored by the central government as a basis for project design. Some
of the reforms implicit in OF III principles initiated by NDDB covered the
true cooperative principles. While it is too early to say whether NDP-II
has been successful in having a lasting effect on the dairy cooperative
structure, the Bank's positive support to project investment and
compliance with OF principles proved valuable to India's drive to increase
milk output.
(g)    For a project of the size and scope of NDP-II, the Bank should have
insisted on the establishment and monitoring of key performance
indicators aimed at providing intermediate assessments of project
outcomes and likely impacts.
(h)   The Bank should not add new sub-projects toward the end of the project
implementation period without first examining both the prospects for
timely completion and for achieving satisfactory benefits. The inclusion
of additional sub-projects within the last two years before Credit closing
(e.g. Maharashtra) has been one of the reasons for the delay in the
completion of NDP-II. The experience of NDP-I had already taught this
lesson which was not applied to the follow-on NDP-II. While utilization
of Credit savings was a major objective of these additions, the prospect of
delays in completion and accrual of benefits therefrom should have
received adequate scrutiny before this decision was made.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1859-IN/Ln. 2893-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A. Statement of Project Objectives
1.           The Second National Dairy Project (NDP-II) was designed in support of
Operation Flood III (OF III), building on the implementation experience of three state-level dairy
projects (Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, all approved in 1974) and one national-level
project (National Dairy Project, approved in 1978) through which the Bank assisted in developing
India's livestock subsector. The objectives of NDP-II were to promote the establishment of viable
cooperative businesses owned and managed by producers, for collecting, processing and
marketing of milk products in order to improve milch animal productivity and expand rural
incomes. These were to be achieved by: (a) expanding and consolidating the integrated
cooperative institutional structures; (b) providing the necessary prerequisites for productivity
enhancement; (c) establishment and expansion of milk collection, processing, storage and
distribution activities; and (d) strengthening of institutions, and training.
2.           Project cost. The project was to be implemented over seven years from December
1987 to December 1994, and the total project cost including physical and price contingencies was
estimated at US$678 million (Rs9,150 million). The IDA Credit of SDR121.2 million (US$160
million equivalent) and Bank Loan of US$200 million, amounting in total to US$360 million
(Rs4,860 million) were to finance about 53% of the project costs. The remainder (US$318
rmillion or Rs4,290 million) was to be met out of NDDB resources, which were expected to be
supplemented by commodity aid from the European Economic Community (EEC), supplied on a
grant basis and equivalent to about US$150 million (Rs2,025 million)."
3.           Special legal covenants. Special legal covenants or agreements that were expected
to promote the achievement of project objectives were for GOI to cause project states to ensure
that state federations, milk producers' unions and dairy cooperative societies follow Operation
Flood conditionality and SFs to submit satisfactory annual development plans. In addition,
covenants required NDDB to: (a) ensure that DCSs, MIPUs and SFs function under by-laws and
Subsequently revised to Rs2,227 M. This understates the value of EC contribution of Rupees 2,227 Million as
a minimum, but also has maximum food aid quantities (75,000 tonnes of SMP and 25,000 tonnes of BO),
provided that these could be justified as a commodity need.



-2-
charters consistent with OF III principles; (b) appraise sub-projects and ensure they meet certain
criteria spelled out in the Project Agreement (including a financial rate of return of at least 12%)
and institutions receiving NDDB project sub-loans deduct an amount necessary to maintain equity
in real terms before paying dividends and bonuses; and (c) take steps satisfactory to the Bank to
progressively reduce subsidies.
4.           Although the participating states have all agreed to adopt OF principles, despite
consistent prodding by NDDB some states have yet to comply in part due to obstructive
provisions in the State Cooperative Acts. The enactment of the Andhra Pradesh Mutually-Aided
Cooperative Societies Act of 1995 represents a positive new development. It has resulted from
the combined efforts of NDDB, the Cooperative Development Foundation and the Cooperative
Initiative Project in a state where government interference in the past has manifestly weakened the
abilitv of the dairy cooperatives to compete with the growing private sector. It would be highly
desirable if other laggard states would follow the Andhra Pradesh example and enact legislation to
confer greater functional autonomy on cooperatives, enabling them to frame and amend their own
by-laws, conduct elections, hire chartered accountants of their choice, take investment and
marketing decisions, and allocate funds independently of the government. However, NDDB,
finding it unrealistic to expect the State Cooperative Act to be amended has recommended to the
central Government that dairy cooperatives be incorporated under the Cooperative Companies
Act. This recommendation is still pending with the Government. Strengthening of sub-project
appraisal techniques and procedures was of critical importance for ensuring technically and
institutionally sound and financially viable development of the dairy cooperative sector. After
following the "return on investment" (ROI) methodology in the initial years with the approval of
the Bank, NDDB has from 1993 introduced, at the request of the Bank, revised procedures taking
into consideration the main criterion of the financial rate of return (FRR) specified in the Project
Agreement. Although action has been taken to charge for services, an increased level of cost
recovery has not been achieved by the closing date of the Credit.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.           Claritv. The basic concept of the project - improving rural incomes and milch
animal productivity - using the integrated dairy cooperative program for the production,
collection, processing and marketing of milk and milk products, was important for development of
the Indian livestock sector.
6.           Realism. The project design was based on the well-tested, locally developed
Anand Milk Union Limited (AMUL) dairy cooperative development model on which GOI
decided to build its national dairy development strategy. However, the appraisal mission was
overoptimistic in its assessment of the rate of change of state governments to adopt the concept
of farmer control at various levels of the cooperative structure, though this was highlighted as
major risk area in the SAR. Although the model hinges on autonomous farmer control at DCS,
MVPU and SF levels, many state governments do not fully support the concept of farmer control at
all levels of the cooperative structure. A successful expansion of AMUL principles throughout
the country requires, in the final analysis, a supportive role (without excessive involvement or
interference) by state governments to the cooperative movement.
7.           Complexity. The project was a massive and complex program in states which each
have their own priorities and commitments. The scale and spread of project activities called for



-3-
high-quality management and skillful planning of implementation, which many SFs and MPUs
have found difficult to command. Insofar as the quality of management at federation and union
level was perceived to be the principal risk, special attention should have been devoted to
examining the existing constraints and making a detailed investigation about if and how existing
impediments could be overcome. Deficiencies such as the poor financial position of SFs and
MPUs had haunted the dairy cooperatives in many states in the past, and the pace of change was
recognized as a risk. The importance of financial viability of the dairy cooperative structure was
explicitly emphasized at appraisal and the Bank had specifically provided for a longer-than-usual
project implementation period to help promote institutional adjustments to ensure the long-term
sustainability and financial viability of the dairy cooperative sector.
8.            Responsiveness to Borrower's circumstances. The project responded well to
GOI's strategy to build its national dairy development through the Operation Flood programs.
9.            Risks. The willingness of the st.ates to implement OF conditionalities was
recognized as the project's main risk. Significant implementation delays or shortfalls in
achievements were foreseen at appraisal. A longer-than-usual implementation period (more than
seven years) was regarded as acceptable if it helped promote institutional changes to ensure
financial viability of the OF dairy cooperative sector. The risk of NDDB not completing sub-
projects started under OF III was considered to be small.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.           Overall Achievement. The project, by and large, has achieved its physical, sector
policy, financial and institutional development objectives in Gujarat, but only partially in other
major states.2 Macro-economic policies were not applicable to the project. Although not stated
objectives under the project, gender issues and equity have received much attention under this
project and poverty alleviation was highlighted as a project benefit. While the evidence is not
systematic and varies considerably across areas, mission findings from field visits and from various
sample surveys3 indicate that dairying has made a particularly significant contribution to the
incomes of small, marginal and landless farmers. DCSs provide a market which is much fairer to
the milk producers than the private traders although the society is not usually able to replace or
substitute for the pattern of informal credit which bind poorer milk producers to private vendors.
In addition, women are increasingly enrolled as DCS members (and in some cases, in the
2/  Including together with Gujarat. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh,
which together account for over 82% of total milk procurement, 76% of total investment costs and 74% of
funds released by NDDB.
3/  "Case studies of Successful and Unsuccessful Primary Cooperative Service Society and Milk Producers
Cooperative Society in Punjab." J.S. Sidhu and R. S. Sidhu. Indian Journal of Agricultural Economics, July-
September 1990; "Performance of Dairy Cooperatives in Saurashtra, and Econometric Analysis." Indian
Journal of Agricultural Economics, April- June 1994; and "Present Status and Promise of Dairying in
India." R.K. Patel, Indian Journal of Agricultural Economics, January- March 1993.



-4-
management committee as well), in line with State policies and the objectives of the Cooperative
Development Program (CDP) of NDDB.
Physical Objectives
11.          General. A comparative statement of targets and achievements of the major
project components as on April 30, 1996, is given in Table 5 of Part II. Appraisal (or revised)
targets were attained or surpassed with respect to some elements of the productivity enhancement
component (DCSs covered by artificial insemination (Al), AIs performed per year, bulls for
natural service, bull mother farms, silvipasture, urea molasses blocks (UMB) plants and
distribution of mini-kits/varietal demonstrations), the number of milksheds covered, the number of
DCSs organized, liquid milk marketing, milk powder storage, drying and chilling capacity and rail
milk tankers. Shortfalls were experienced in other elements of the productivity enhancement
component such as cattle feed plants, seed processing units, first aid centers, semen production
stations and sire evaluation centers, and in milk procurement, rural and metro processing and
butter storage. The objectives of the major components and their degree of achievement are
discussed below.
12.          Cooperative Institutional Structure. After a rapid growth during OF II (1981-86),
the dairy cooperative structure underwent a period of consolidation and strengthening under the
follow-up program - OF III or NDP-11, as indicated by the key indicators of national dairy
cooperative development.
Dairy Cooperative Development
Indicators                      Unit    Appraisal        Actual       Percentag
targets     achievement         e
Average milk procurement per    Mlpd            13.7            11.0      80
year                          ____
Farm families                  million           6.7             9.2     137
DCSs                            '000             70            71.8      103
MPUs                            No.             190             170       95
State Federations               No.              22              22      100
All development indicators show achievement well above appraisal targets except milk
procurement and number of MPUs. Liberalization has allowed the entry of the private sector to
compete away a share of the milk market particularly through its impact on new plants in certain
areas and, as a result, average milk procurement by the DCSs fell short of the targets. The
reduced number of MPUs was part of a deliberate strategy of consolidation and strengthening
rather than geographic expansion of the unions. To continue sustained progress, the cooperatives
- SFs and MPUs - will have to further improve their financial profitability and institutional self-
sufficiency.



-5-
13.          Productivity Enhancement. A major thrust under OF III was to be an increase in
animal productivity supported by measures to promote animal health care, feed and fodder usage,
genetic improvement and better animal husbandry. Through the project period, increasing
emphasis has been placed on increasing cost recovery for technical input provision. This has been
particularly by direct payments by farmers for services used and through a charge on the milk
prices The charging policy varies between states and unions and is strongly influenced by the
charging policies of the Animal Husbandry Departments (AHD). This is a major issue for the
Technology Mission for Dairy Development (TMDD) and the dovetailing of OF and AHD
services where progress is still very variable. In particular, extension efforts are very limited. The
participatory rural management approach being used on a pilot basis has shown promise in
identifying the particular concerns of the farmers but extension should be addressed by TMDD if
the productivity enhancement objectives of sustainable and economically viable production are to
be achieved in the longer term.
14.          The artificial insemination program has been strengthened technically by the policy
of developing "cluster" centers serving a number of villages rather than the single centers
proposed in the SAR. The Al program is concentrated in a relatively small number of major
states and involves both the upgrading of buffaloes and breeding of crossbred cattle. For the
cattle, crossing with Holstein Friesian (HIF) blood has become increasingly important and
crossbreds with rather high exotic inheritance can be found even in the more resource-poor rural
areas - despite the SAR recommendation that expansion of Al with exotic semen be limited to
areas with relatively favorable conditions. In some cases (Bihar), a number of farmers have been
able to cope surprisingly well with newly introduced crossbred cattle whereas in eastern Andhra
Pradesh the introduction of such cattle was generally unsuccessful. The HF appears to be the
breed of choice of most farmers, but there may well be a case for the small landowner or landless
members to concentrate on the use of Jersey semen. HF is chosen on account of the greater
quantity of milk produced, but the Jersey, with its lower fodder requirement and higher butterfat
production, could be equally profitable where resources are severely limited. The published
reports of the numbers of calves born under the Al program understate the effectiveness of the
operation. A particular problem is that there is a substantial trade in pregnant animals of higher
genetic potential so that the Al program may have only a small impact on milk production within
the breeding village. Nevertheless, there is fairly wide variation in the success rate of Al. Where
records are available at DCS level, conceptions to first and second inseminations by Bos cows
varies from as much as 73% to as little as 30%. There is a system of re-training inseminators. It
is more likely that the effectiveness of the system is variable and depends on the resources which
local management are prepared to devote to re-training. Another problem appears to be that
many farmers seem to miss observing the subsequent oestrus after AI. Several DCS records show
that only 50% of animals show positive when presented for diagnosis three months after
insemination. Clearlv, this results in a loss of production through extended calving intervals.
Buffalo AI is even more variable, and in the Amritsar area of Punjab many farmers are reverting to
natural service. Both these matters merit fiirther attention.
15.          In most of the villages visited, the animal health services were given the highest
ranking by the farmers in terms of the importance of the input services provided by the unions.
The change during OF III from regular veterinary routes to the provision of emergency services
and infertility camps appears to have been accepted by the farmers as part of the rationalization



-6-
and cost reduction program. Village society secretaries have also been given training in basic
animal health care.
16.          For livestock feeding, the process of producing urea molasses blocks has been
changed but the program is still at a pilot stage. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in
the blocks of mineral mixtures and anthelmintic. The greater use of such measures should
significantly improve animal health. In India, silvipasture can only play a minor role in feeding
improved animal breeds. More recently, the provision of fodder seeds has been given greater
priority in addition to the program of distributing mini-kits and varietal demonstrations, but land
availability restricts the use of these to the larger landholder. However, landless and smaller
landholders can sometimes purchase standing crops from these more affluent farmers.
Demonstrations of urea treatment of straw continue to be undertaken but the impact of the
program appears to be still limited. If the widespread production of UMBs is resumed, the use of
these may well have a much wider rate of adoption than straw treatment.
17.          Processing and Marketing Facilities. This component represents the largest share
(54%) of the total project cost. Milk collection, processing, storage and distribution were the
activities covered under this component. Planned milkshed processing capacity was not fully
achieved partly due to incomplete sub-projects in Maharashtra, while drying and chilling capacity
was more or less achieved. Liquid milk marketing capacity has exceeded appraisal targets (112%)
due to the creation of additional capacities in big cities - Bangalore, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad -
other than the originally planned four metro dairies - one each in Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and
Madras. A total additional storage capacity of 44,900 metric tons (MT) was constructed,
representing a modest shortfall compared to the appraisal target. At appraisal, it was envisaged
that an additional 183 rail tankers would be required for long-distance transportation of milk.
However, actual procurement was 169 or 92% of appraised target (97% of revised target). Less
storage capacity was required due to reduced reliance on re-combination for the supply of liquid
rmilk to major urban centers in the lean seasons. Greater use was made of road transport rather
than rail in order to provide a more flexible milk distribution network. Thus, in a sense, failure to
meet those targets is a positive indication of flexible management. The performance of the main
sub-projects is highlighted in the following paras.
18.          Cooperatives are obliged to accept all the milk delivered by producers and the
installed processing capacity must therefore be capable of handling peak daily intake. Since there
are considerable variations (3:2) in milk production, plant utilization will always theoretically be
less than 70% installed capacity. In practice, however, many plants are handling considerably
more than rated capacity through operating up to three shifts. The data on rated capacities and
actual utilization in the Operation Flood dairies showed considerable inter-and intra-state
variation. Gujarat and Maharashtra do better than most. With few exceptions, the units in
Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh operate at low capacity. Some units, however, operate
considerably above rated capacity and these are mainly concerned with liquid milk processing
where the introduction of three shifts and the additional packaging material has allowed them to
process and package more liquid milk. Milk drying and butter making activities have been
designed largely to cope with the surplus milk at peak supply, and the capacity utilization is
therefore generally much lower and more variable. NDDB has proposed management contracts
for some of these cooperatives to upgrade performance and improve competitiveness with the
private sector.



-7-
19.          The technology and equipment introduced were tried and tested elsewhere and
consequently there were no major problems with installations assisted by the project. The NDDB
Engineering Group, with the assistance of experts provided by the project, established drawings
and specifications for the various sub-projects and offered turnkey consultancy service at a fee -
5% of sub-project cost.
20.           Where possible, NDDB prepared standardized specifications and drawings for
items of equipment which were common to a number of projects, e.g., storage tanks, pasteurizers,
cleaning systems, and also for cattle feed plants. High standards were set for locally produced
equipment. However, the expected cost savings were not always fully realized. Nevertheless,
capital cost per liter of processing capacity was below Rs500 for most installations of expanded
capacity.
21.           The financial feasibility calculations were based on high throughput rates for most
of the season (>70% utilization capacity) which may be difficult to achieve due to the high priority
being given to supplying the liquid milk market. All five major sub-projects initiated in recent
years at Gandhinagar, Amul, Kheda, Noida and Calcutta metro dairy involved an increase in the
level of automation which was justified as much on the basis of quality and efficiency
considerations as on labor savings. The standards for civil works were for a combination of
reasons set at a very high level. The first three plants involved a high capacity energy-efficient
plant for the production of milk powder, butter and cheese products, which met highest
international standards. Drying and mechanized automated cheese plants are capital-intensive and
capital cost of Rsl,000 per liter of processing capacity are acceptable, though slightly on the high
side.
22.          NDDB also played an important role in guiding the evolution of the technology
and equipment used within the dairy cooperative sector. There has been a progressive increase in
plant capacity and degree of sophistication. It may be argued that some of the most recent plants
are too complex, but the impressive level of indigenization of manufacture of the processing
equipment and automation would suggest that they are appropriate (for the progressive
federations/unions) for the rapidly improving conditions in India. An innovative pilot scheme to
substitute bulk chilling tanks for the traditional can collection at village level was successfully
introduced in the Kaira district of Gujarat. These centers have potential for better operation of
the National Milk Grid, but their replication must be preceded by comprehensive feasibility studies
in each location.
23.           The Dairy at Noida also has a number of innovative features such as vertical design
and an ETP which combines anaerobic and aerobic treatment on a compact site. The total cost of
the project is estimated at Rs430 million for 400,000 liters per day (LPD) of pasteurized milk in
sachets. The fifth plant at Metro Dairy, Calcutta is impressive by any standards and in addition to
400,000 LPD liquid milk, has facilities for ice cream and UHT milk processing. The total cost is
nearly Rs500 million. The cost per liter of processing capacity in both cases is in excess of
Rsl,000 and this will constitute an exceptionally high loan servicing cost per liter of milk even at
100% capacity utilization. This must be taken in the context of total operating costs for liquid
milk in sachets of approximately Rs1.0 per liter given by both cooperative and private factories
supplying urban markets.



-8-
24.          Realizing the need for competent management of processing facilities, NDDB has
to a large extent, concentrated investment in Gujarat and mother dairies where required expertise
was available or secured without much difficulty and trained.
25.          Cattle Feed Plants (CFP). Some 11 cattle feed plants have been financed under the
project, mostly for expansion of existing capacities and, of these, six units were taken up under
NDP-I and completed under NDP-I. The available operating results of all plants indicate that
nine completed in 1992/93, eight in 1993/94 and one in 1994/95, have made small net profits.
Pricing strategy adopted by the federations/unions for cattle feed involved either making no-
profit, no-loss (Gujarat) or selling slightly below cost due to input cost increases ahead of price
increase (Karnataka), on the grounds that cattle feed is a necessary input for production of milk
within the system and the total operation of the federation/union (and not simply the CFP) should
constitute the criterion for financial viability. There is some merit in this argument provided that
cross-subsidy by MPUs through DCSs does not penalize farmers purchasing cattle feed from
other sources as against those who do buy from DCSs, although it was agreed during negotiations
of the NDP-II that investments in CFP should be viable, regardless of other activities of the
federation/union. Field visits indicate that some CFP units are incurring losses partly due to
substandard product quality which does not help them to achieve profitable levels (Madurai),
while some produce good-quality feed, capturing markets in neighboring states (CFP in Punjab
and Karnataka). Another reason for low prices could be the desire to attract farmers to the
cooperative fold. Overall, action has been taken by NDDB to overcome these problems in several
ways including input cost control, range of feed production and feed grid. However, selling
below cost is a bad strategy from the society's point of view because efficiency gains from
competition by the private sector are stifled.
26.          Objectives of Sector Policies. The cooperative sector policies relevant to the
project included the adoption of Operation Flood principles, milk pricing and subsidies. These
objectives were only partially achieved. As of April 30, 1996, Gujarat continued to be the only
state in the country in which ownership and control of the milk industry was fully in the hands of
farrmers at all three levels - DCS, MPU and SF. All other states continue to exercise varying
degrees of control through appointed administrators at union/federation level, usually the latter.
Progress in regularizing the situation is slow, thus delaying the application of the OF principles
nation-wide. The lack of compliance by the states in this respect was considered the most serious
impediment to OF generally under NDP-I and at appraisal of NDP-II, and persists as the major
outstanding issue at the completion in NDP-II. The state governments have controlled both
producers' and consumers' prices of milk in some states, seriously affecting the growth and
financial viability of the dairy cooperatives. Milksheds where the price is decided by state
governments/union territory include Bhavnagar, Kutch, Surendranagar and Junagadh in Gujarat,
and Sikkim. Milksheds where price is decided by the federation in consultation with the unions,
include all the milksheds of Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Orissa and Tamil Nadu (where the state
government is also consulted). As regards subsidies, specific steps have been initiated to charge
for services provided. However, the level of charges is still too low in many cases to satisfy full
cost recovery.
27.          Financial Objectives. The project has fully achieved its financial objectives in
DC Ss (except those defunct or dormant which have not yet been liquidated), but only partially in
SF/MIPUs. The shortfall is largely due to the lack of adoption of OF III principles fully except in



-9-
Gujarat, excessive staffing levels in SFs and MPUs, and limited freedom in setting realistic prices.
This issue is discussed in detail in paras 39-46 as the financial viability of cooperative businesses
was an overarching objective under the project.
28.          Institutional Development Objectives. The project impact on institutional
development was mixed. The main means of achieving the institutional development objectives
were by the provision of infrastructure and equipment, training of NDDB and union level
personnel, studies related to marketing and management, monitoring and evaluation activities.
These were all provided to varying degrees of success. Staff training has been provided as
planned. Various studies have been carried out with grant funding from the EU. As a result,
NDDB, which acted as project promoters, consultants and financiers, gained a high level of
promotional ability, technical skills, financial expertise and overall control, without which the
considerable gains made would not have been possible. Its innovative approach to milk
procurement and marketing, and rural organization, its dynamic management, market and
coordination activities are all highly commendable.
29.           On the other hand, the managerial and financial performance of SFs and MPUs
have generally suffered due to a number of reasons: the common cadre system in some states
(Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh), with frequent transfers has impeded
proper management, accountability and stability of operations. The information system is largely
designed to provide data on milk procurement, marketing: and inputs. In certain respects, the
information generated does not provide a valid basis for monitoring results or evaluating impact.
For example, in two key areas -- socio-economic impact (or income effects on different socio-
economic groups), changes in animal productivity and progress of sub-projects -- there is scope
for streamlining and clearly defining the parameters (member-pourers/non-member pourers;
number and type of animals as well as members' landholding on a sample basis; and time and cost
overruns as well as revised FRR for sub-projects) and relating inputs to outputs (e.g. Al).
Greater flexibility is also necessary to reflect changes -- for example, the introduction of by-pass
cattle feed, and coverage of DCS by government services under the TMDD.
30.          Equity and Gender Objectives. Although equity and gender issues were not
explicitly stated objectives of the NDP-II, the project has contributed to poverty alleviation and
involvement of women in dairy activities. In the absence of clearly defined M&E data on
beneficiary participation, it is not possible to make a precise assessment. The preliminary results
of a sample survey" indicate that in the OF villages about 78% of total households own milch
animals and nearly 63% are members of DCS. About 87% of member households possess
operational land while, in the case of non-member households, it is 79%, showing that land
ownership is not a distinguishing criterion among member or non-member households.
Distribution of members by different social groups show the mix as: scheduled castes (14%),
scheduled tribes (4%) and other backward castes (41%). The project's impact on rural incomes
is, thus, considerably more equitable than most crop production programs as a result of the much
more even distribution of animals between social groups. Female participation is about 20% of
total membership of DCSs, representing an important change in an overwhelmingly male-
dominated society. Given the social constraints, women's membership does not, by itself,
' "Impact Evaluation of Operation Flood Programme on Rural Dairy Sector, preliminary observations",
NCAER, May 1996.



-10-
guarantee active participation. Nonetheless, in many areas, and particularly in some women's
DCS, women have gained an increase in mobility, in self assurance and some access to income.
31.          Another significant contribution under OF III has been the emerging realization
that cooperative development is not just about numbers - numbers of DCS or numbers of
registered members. Members may be registered but that does not mean that they are involved in
the cooperative, or if they are involved, that they understand what is going on and participate
actively. This has emerged as a critical area as the rapid expansion of the dairy cooperative sector
throughout the country has involved a more 'top-down', target-oriented, approach in contrast
with the initial process of growth of dairy cooperatives in Gujarat in response to local needs and
leadership initiative. The Cooperative Development Program of the NDDB represents a very
important, innovative, committed and generally gender-sensitive effort for membership education
and institution building at both DCS and district union level. The drawbacks lie in the scale of the
task involved and the need to achieve a balance between more intensive follow-up (which limits
coverage but improves effectiveness) and wider coverage (which may reduce effectiveness).
Impact studies of the Cooperative Development Program have not contributed as much as they
might have to achieving this balance since they tend to be limited to assessments of short-term
effects.
32.          Operation Flood has been criticized as a program which draws on substantial
international and government funding for a development program which benefits the better-off,
larger farmers. These criticisms tend to be vigorously denied. However, the debate tends to be
more emotional than rigorous. A careful assessment of the distribution of benefits needs to be
made. This is apparently being done by the NCAER. There may be scope for supplementing this
with a careful examination in different regions of existing data at selected DCS combined with
careful cross-checking and interviews with DCS members.
33.          At the same time, it is apparent that, whilst poorer members may be benefiting
from DCS membership: (i) it is larger farmers who have the resources to invest in more and
improved animals and to feed and maintain them very efficiently; and (ii) marginal farmers and
landless families do not have the same level of resources and usually find it more difficult to
maintain improved animals efficiently.
34.           Project Impact. The institutional, managerial and technical adjustments promoted
under the project have helped the dairy cooperative sector to improve efficiency and productivity,
and set the stage for sustained development of a competitive commercially-oriented domestic
dairy industry capable of responding to the expanding domestic demand for milk and milk
products. An outstanding impact of the project is the continued development of milksheds,
making them attractive for the entry of the private sector which itself was facilitated by the
delicensing of the dairy sector in 1991. In addition, the project can claim substantial credit for the
impressive gains made in annual milk procurement and to some extent productivity of milch
animals; increase in per capita milk consumption; expansion in number and capacity of dairy
plants; creation/expansion of infrastructure for greater procurement, processing, and marketing of
milk, produced in rural areas which, in turn, has increased urban milk supplies; increase in the
number, membership and earnings of DCSs; evening out seasonal and regional imbalances in milk
supply; expansion of dairy equipment manufacture to meet country's demand indigenously; and
emergence of the country as a potential exporter.



-1 1-
35.          The project had a major impact on rural incomes and employment of a good
proportion of small, marginal and landless farmers. It benefited about 4.1 million additional rural
households (22.5 million people) and continued support towards improving milk yields and family
incomes of the 9.2 million households (50.6 million people) already enrolled under OF. Costs per
beneficiary household are low, estimated at Rs3,060 (US$90) per incremental household or
Rs1,365 (US$40) in terms of total households. As on March 31, 1996, an average milk
procurement of 10.7 million liters per day (Mlpd) (or peak procurement of 13.4 Mlpd) has been
achieved, representing Rs33.8 billion (or nearly US$1billion) in cash revenues for rural farmers,
and a significant increase in the availability of milk and milk products in urban areas. The
presence of DCSs in the market has also provided competition, thereby improving retums to
producers in general, regardless of the purchasing agent. It has also generated significant, though
unquantified, social benefits to the rural community through provision of funds principally for
village communal facilities, school/college buildings, and recreational facilities.
36.          Economic Rate of Return. The current economic rate of return re-estimated at
completion is 21%. The recalculated ERR is based on actual expenditures incurred up to the
closing date as well as the costs to complete ongoing activities until June 1997, and an actual and
updated projection of benefits. Underlying assumptions about costs and benefits, and other
information supporting the analysis, are shown in Table 9 of Part II and Appendix B. The re-
estimated ERR differs from the appraisal estimate of 27%, mainly due to the shortfall in milk
procurement.
37.          Sensitivity Analysis. The three factors which are expected to influence the ERR
are the net value added through rural-urban transfer, the inability of the SFs/MPUs to operate and
manage processing plants as designed and, to a lesser extent, the assumed productivity growth. If
the net valued added is reduced by 20%, the ERR falls to 19%. Poor operation and management
would lower ERR to 5%, assuming that the ineffective operation of SFs/MPUs would depress
project benefits by 20%. The decline in value of incremental production by 20% would lower
ERR to 9%. Thus, both management and incremental value of production have a critical
influence on the ERR.
38.          Financial Re-evaluation. Project investments have ranged over a variety of new
and expanding processing capacities and feed mills located throughout the country. Appendix B
shows the FRR on models estimated at appraisal and at completion, which are summarized below.
FRR (%)
Appraisal                 Completion
Average DCS                          15%                        17%
New MPU dairy plant                  20%       )
30%
Existing city dairy plant           28%         )
Gandhinagar plant                    18%                        12%
Cattle feed plant                    16%                         9%



-12-
At completion, financial results are more or less similar to those estimated at appraisal except for
the Gandhinagar plant and cattle feed investment. Considering the growing diversification of city
dairies, a single analysis has been done for city dairy/MPU dairy plant at project completion. The
lower results of the Gandhinagar plant are attributed to low capacity utilization while the lower
FRR for the cattle feed plant was not unexpected due to the policy of the investing SF/union
operating these plants on a no-profit no-loss basis.
Financial Situation of Participating Entities
39.           Overall Performance. In major states, DCSs have been generating surpluses and
building up their liquid balances in the form of deposits with banks or with their unions and
investments in approved securities. The financial performance of many SFs/MPUs is still
unsatisfactory, although they have shown improvement in recent years. At appraisal, about 50%
of participating borrowers (SFs, MPUs and city dairies) were earning annual profits with the other
50% either earning a cash profit (i.e. excluding depreciation and interest accrued but not yet due)
or varying levels of losses. At project completion, profit-making units have risen to 63% (85 out
of 13 6 entities). Moreover, there is a definite trend of improved performance. In addition to the
rnilk operations, several states have cattle feed operations which are run on a no-profit no-loss
basis (see para 25).
40.           Implementation experience indicates that SFs and MIPUs operating substantially
within OF principles (substantial farmer control and direction, and independence from state
governments) have the more profitable operations (e.g. Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra). On
the other hand, other SFs and MPUs operating with state government intervention (e.g. Andhra
Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh) usually suffer from inadequate selling prices,
overstaffing and less motivated management. The overstaffing is an inevitable consequence of the
cooperatives taking over facilities and staff from government without the necessary re-structuring.
An exception is the Gujarat Federation which was very careful to avoid doing this. Other
important causes for losses have been insufficient development of milk procurement and
marketing potential, and limited diversification into high-margin milk products. The SAR
provision for equity build-up resulted in increased equity in many unions but not far enough to
sustain the high risk of operating losses.
41.           Poor management has also affected the financial performance of unions and
federations. To an extent this is because the dairy industry has become more competitive and
contestable. One of the reasons for this is the recent (1991) delicensing of the dairy industry.
Thus, the real question facing the dairy cooperative sector is: is an MPU in a position to develop
and institutionalize capabilities to the point of earning attractive returns? This breaks down into
two further questions. Can an MPU develop capabilities to increase revenue per unit? Can it
develop capabilities to decrease cost per unit? Investment in facilities for diversified products has
been a major attempt to increase revenues. Operating costs are variable (transport costs, product
losses). The greatest leeway is in capital cost (fixed costs) and selling price, and if MPUs could
reduce this cost and increase the selling price to a tolerable level, then their profitability should be
possible.
42.           None of the societies visited by the ICR mission were able to raise share capital
voluntarily from members beyond the minimum share ofRslO per member. As a result, the build-



-13-
up of equity was slow until later years of the project when unions made deductions from price
differences or bonuses paid to members in order to beef up capital (e.g., Gujarat, Karnataka,
Maharashtra). In other states like Tamil Nadu, share capital had remained constant until efforts
were made to convert some of balances in reserve funds in DCSs into the capital of the union.
43. .         Financial Profitability. Financial profitability of the federations/unions has long
been a matter of serious concern even in the previously completed projects and during supervision
of the NDP-II carried out by the Bank. For the purpose of analysis under NDP-II, six major
states have been selected, based on a combination of milk procurement levels, investment costs
and financing for sub-projects, as indicated below. Because of the interdependence of the
individual units within the three-tier structure, financial analysis, in substance though not in legal
form, must treat them as one integrated whole, particularly because of the impact of transfer
prices between the unions and federations. Viewed collectively in this light, financial position of
the integrated structure would appear better due to returns made by profitable unions and
practically all DCSs. However, as each unit in,the tier is a profit center, analysis of individual
units makes sense from a performance evaluation angle.
Milk procurement      Investment costs    Release of funds by NDDB
(volume in 'OOOs)
(kg per day)    (%)  Rs million      (%)    Rs million
Gujarat                  3,313       29       3.898       36            3,843       40
Uttar Pradesh              819        7       1.201       11             806         8
Karnataka                 1,098      10         951        9             860         9
Tamil Nadu                1,203      11         735        7             602         6
Maharashtra               1.908      17         728        7             391          4
Andhra Pradesh             848        8         709        6             628         7
Other states             2,091       18       2.689       24            2,472       26
All India                11I280     100      10 911      100            9,6041   _O0
44.           As noted above, financial performance is generally improving. NDDB records
indicate that there had been wide variations among the assisted units within a state and between
states, with Gujarat and to some extent Maharashtra ranking well above others. The change in the
number of profit/loss making unions and federations and their associated value of profit or loss is
shown below.



-14-
1992/93                    1993/94                      1994/95
State Unions
& Federations                                                                                        l
No. making      Profit    No. making        Profit      No. making       Profit
or                         or                            or
(Loss)                     (Loss)                        (Loss)
(Rs M)                      (Rs M)                       (Rs M)
Net     Net                Net      Net                 Net      Net
profit   loss              profit   loss                profit    loss
Gujarat             15       -        57        13       2        28        12       3         36
Uttar Pradesh       10       13      (33)       11       12      (49)       12       11        (3)
Karnataka            2       11     (131)       3        10     (125)       10        3       115
Tamil Nadu           5       6      (171)       6        5        53         6        5        (3)
Maharashtra          9       2        (7)       10        1       28        10        1       112
Andhra               2       10     (168)       2        10     (121)        6       6        (58)
Pradesh
As shown above, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka show significant changes in numbers, while all
have improved their profits or reduced their losses by 1994/95. This is confirmed by ratio analysis
as indicated below.
State Unions                       Return on Turnover (%)              Return on Total Assets (%)
& Federations
1992-93    1993-94      1994-95    1992-93    1993-94          1994-95
Gujarat a/                          0.31        0.14         0.16        5.57         1.38         1.18
Uttar Pradesh                      -1.35       -1.85        -0.10      -12.58       -16.07        -0.80
Karnatakab/                        -3.62       -2.79         2.53      -24.81      -20.04         20.29
TamilNaduc/                        -3.91        1.01        -0.05      -69.81       20.54         -1.27
Maharashtra d/                     -0.12        0.45         1.62       -2.24        7.99         29.12
Andhra Pradesh                     -4.76       -3.18        -1.50      -37.94       -27.88       -13.57
a/ Taxation on Gujarat federation, Anand (Unit 3) increased substantially from 31% of profits to 80%. Profits after tax
therefore fell fromRs3O.5 toRs. 7.9 million: a74%reduction. As aresult, profits after tax fell by 51%between 1992-93
and 1993-94; they recovered somewhat the following year. Tumover has increased in a steady fashion. Total assets
doubled from 1992-93 to 1993-94 when the assets of the federation are counted. Between 1993-94 and 1994-95, Kaira
(Unit 2) increased its own assets by approximately Rs300 million and total assets saw the same absolute increase. Faced
with falling profits after tax and increasing sales and assets, return on sales and assets have fallen.
b/  Kamataka: losses in first two years with remarkable tumarounds in last year. Steady growth in tumover and assets.
c/  Tamil Nadu: shows a fluctuating performance while Uttar Pradesh shows negative but declining rates of retum.
d/  Maharashtra: highly variable profits but steadily increasing tumover and assets. In all cases, tumover has been boosted
by the new processing units coming into production combined with increases in selling price of milk.



-15-
45.    Efficiency Measures. It is important to get away from the idea that it is possible to
encapsulate cooperative performance as a whole in a single figure of profitability. This is because
the degree of profitability in dairy cooperatives is determined mainly by the level of selling prices
which, in turn, are strongly influenced by the policies of the state governments. Assessment of
dairy cooperative performance in terms of profitability may thus reveal more about government
policy than about the cooperative's own efficiency. A variety of performance indicators would be
necessary to reveal the different aspects of performance. For this purpose, four indicators have
been prepared and presented below. Extrapolating these results state-wide, a tentative conclusion is
that Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu - show a more efficient performance than
the others
46.    Past Losses. All the major states except Gujarat and Maharashtra have federations and
some unions with negative net worth, as a result of accumulated past losses, with some predating
the NDP-II. Most of them need to be recapitalized while the rest will have to be liquidated. The
main contributory factors for poor financial performance include administered prices of milk in
metro cities like Bangalore, Calcutta, Madras and New Delhi; poor management as in Jalgaon or
Dharwar, and low capacity utilization due to competition from the private dairies as in Andhra
Pradesh, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, and overstaffing in many units. Audits pending for periods
ranging for some entities from one to seven years have affected the initiation of corrective
measures.
Unions                                             Indicators
Procurement   Turnover per   Net profit/(loss)   Assets per
per employee     employee      per employee      employee
(litres)      (Rs.'000)       (Rs. '000)       (Rs. '000)
Sabarkantha (Gujarat)         328           1,532             4               155
Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh)        143             741             32              104
Mvsore (Karnataka)            321           1,227             33              242
Salem (Tamil Nadu)            497           1,293             8               587
Kolhapur (Maharashtra)        802           4.000            149              211
Krishna (Andhra Pradesh)      49              269              2               27
NDDB's Role and Performance
47.           Management. As under NDP-I, NDDB was assigned the overall responsibility for
implementing the project. As part of this, the Board has promoted, appraised, financed, and
guided federations/unions and their investments. The promotion aspect of NDDB's lending
activity supported by project funds and involving 'directed credit' to processing plants makes the
essential difference as to its functions as a real catalyst of development and not merely a conduit
through which lending resources pass. The Board in this way has an impact on tangible factors
such as proper management policies and appropriate levels of technology. Total staff of NDDB



-16-
numbers 1, 1 19, of which over 70% (832) have degree or post-graduate level qualifications.
There is no reason to doubt the professional competence of the staff to carry out the tasks
assigned to them. NDDB's continued access to a significant share of national development
resources calls for a more critical analysis of the Board's operations and in particular of the
allocation of resources at its disposal.
48.          Operating Procedures. India's protected environment, her shortage of capital,
abundance of under-employed labor and her need for exports are cause for reviewing the way that
sub-projects are chosen and steered. In evaluating such sub-projects, NDDB has used ROI
methodology (changed to FRR method since 1993) which relates profit to capital employed. The
terms 'capital' and 'profit' are capable of many interpretations and can be expressed at various
levels according to purpose of use. The method also ignores the residual value of assets such as
land and buildings. The most important defect is that it fails to recognize the phasing of costs and
revenues (time value of money) and concentrates on financial flows in accounting terms rather
than cash flows. NDDB has also not introduced ERR calculations, even for large projects, in
their evaluations. In this, NDDB's procedures lag behind those of the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India. It is not axiomatic that the plans to establish/expand a particular
plant are right in terms of national economic advantage. A financial analysis is no substitute for
consistent economic appraisal in selecting sub-projects in terms of national advantage. A review
of INDDB's operational procedures suggests that the major deficiencies are unwarranted reliance
on the state plans and consequently no use of ERR in decision-making process and to some
extent, inadequate attention to monitoring and evaluation of investments, which is largely due to
lower priority being given to M&E than to lack of systems.
49.          Financial Management. Generally, overall financial management seems sound.
NDDB's surplus (excess of income over expenses) has risen from Rs150 million to Rs466 million
between FY1987 and FY1995 while its total assets have increased over the same period from
Rs569 million to Rs27,771 million. Its equity has also increased sharply from Rs150 million to
Rs 14,116 million over the same period, reflecting its expanded involvement in oilseeds and more
recently salt in addition to its milk portfolio. However, its difficulties are reflected in its
outstanding loan portfolio which is affected by arrears. Arrears of interest and principal are
equivalent to about 185% of NDDB's surplus.
50.          Loan Recovery and Portfolio Quality. Loan overdues have mounted steadily from
Rs82 million in 1990/91 to Rs863 million in 1994/95, representing an annual growth rate of
180%. They are still only about 1% of NDDB's loan portfolio. While the rapid growth in
disbursements has helped to diminish overdues as a percentage of NDDB's portfolio, they also
have masked the true state of portfolio quality. Loan recovery rates have declined steadily from
100% (of principal) and 79% (of interest) to 32% and 36%, respectively, between 1990/91 and
1995/96. Most overdues (over 40%) are over two years past due. Total recovery, thus, might
not reflect current performance. Data indicate that NDDB's current recoveries (collections from
loans falling due in the current year), although better, are still 43% for principal and 67% for
interest, indicating poor quality of its loan portfolio. The deteriorating trend is further evidenced
by the growth of overdues which has outpaced the growth of loan portfolio (NDDB's loan
portfolio has recorded an annual growth rate of 133% compared to 180% for overdues between
1990/91 and 1994/95). Federations/unions have huge overdue loan and working capital dues,
amounting to Rsl,623 million (Rsl,059 million in loans and Rs564 million in working capital



-17-
facilities), with Rajasthan accounting for 27% followed by Madhya Pradesh (26%), Andhra
Pradesh (19%), Haryana (7%), Punjab (4%) and others (17%). This clearly underlines the
deterioration in the quality of NDDB's portfolio and the critical importance to NDDB in
achieving a marked improvement in loan recovery rates. NDDB has recognized these problems
and undertaken a selective rehabilitation program in Rajasthan, Mysore union, Jalgaon union and
currently Dharwar union. A huge effort still remains to be made.
51.          Industry Regulation. Development of fully sustainable operations in a consumer
industry requires the involvement of a regulatory body to assure product quality. Thus far,
NDDB has performed this function. However, as the apex institution of the cooperative dairy
system, responsibility for quality assurance as well as other industry-related issues constitutes a
conflict of interest for NDDB. Government needs to establish an industry body, of which NDDB
would be a member, to look after such matters. Operating costs of such a regulatory body would
need to be shared between the industry and' government.
52.          An Assessment. These findings concerning the effects of NDDB's financial
operations do not appear encouraging for further promotion of the Board's financing activities.
However, the main implication of this is to find ways of improving NDDB's operations--not to
dismantle it.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
53.          Implementation Record. As in the case of its predecessor, OF III was successfully
implemented overall, but it too experienced considerable implementation difficulties. The most
common of these was the delay in execution of the agreements between NDDB and the state
governments, adoption of the OF principles and cooperative bye-laws, and later introduction of
appraisal methodology as specified in the Project Agreement, and delays in allocation of land,
adequate water and power by the state governments in some cases. Another factor contributing
to implementation delays has been the reorganization and merger of NDDB and IDC which took
longer than expected. Despite these delays, the project has made significant achievements,
although such achievements in some cases fell short of appraisal targets. The project also
demonstrated that technological inputs alone cannot increase milk production if not supported by
a year-round market for milk (as provided by the project) at a remunerative price through the
"Anand Pattern" milk producers cooperatives. Appraisal targets were surpassed with respect to
the number of DCS organized, the number of farm families covered, milk chilling capacity, liquid
milk marketing capacity and metro and milkshed dairies. The reasons for the shortfalls in others
have been identified and for the most part are being corrected.
54.          The main contributory factors for the implementation delays/shortfalls were:
-    Factors not generally subject to Government control. These include employee
unrest, though short-lived, in a few unions.
-    Factors generally subject to Government control. These included delays in land
acquisition (Balaji dairy, Andhra Pradesh), lack of adequate power supply (Dharwar,



-18-
Raichur, Bijapur dairy in Karnataka and Kamal dairy in Haryana), lack of adequate
water supply (Ongole dairy, Andhra Pradesh, Namakkal, Tamil Nadu) and lack of
both adequate power and water supply (Kodakkal, Tamil Nadu), delayed or non-
adoption of OF principles in (Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Madhra Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh), heavy accumulated losses and poor
financial position of SFs and MPUs (Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh,
Punjab, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu), and lack of freedom in setting prices in many
states.
-    Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. These included
delays in appraisal of sub-projects, and delays in the implementation of institutional
strengthening measures such as M&E.
55.          Actual Project Cost. Table 8A of Part II gives a comparative statement of
appraisal estimates and final costs. The project, as envisaged at appraisal, was completed by the
extended Credit closing date except for some ongoing sub-projects in a few states (e.g.
Maharashtra). When allowance is made for costs to complete, the total final cost would amount to
RsI2,553 million (or US$503 million), representing a 37% cost overrun in nominal rupee terms,
which comprise changes in both quantity and price. Expressed in US dollars reflecting the
depreciation of the rupee against the US dollar (and US dollar depreciation against SDR), there
would be a cost underrun of 26%. The cost of processing facilities (which constituted 54% of the
total cost as against 43% at appraisal) increased in nominal terms by 123%, followed by milk
marketing system (89%), productivity enhancement (85%), marketing, M&E, training and studies
(44%), technical inputs (-49%), and animal breeding (-72%). It is worth noting that technical
inputs and animal breeding costs were influenced by the dovetailing with government services,
improved efficiency (e.g. Al centers) and the increased emphasis on input cost recovery.
56.           Proiect Financing. Both Credit and Loan disbursements have lagged well behind
actual expenditures, before gaining momentum since 1994. The project financed about 66% of
total actual expenditure compared to 53% of the project costs at appraisal, mainly due to an
increase in the disbursement percentage. The EU provided funding for about 19% of the total
actual expenditures and the remaining 15% was met by NDDB.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
57.           The sustainability of the cooperatives, which is in the interests of all participants,
requires that they develop rationally, be staffed properly and maintain a sound financial structure
to ensure solvency and liquidity for commercial survival. Rational development generating
adequate farmer incomes and better milch animal productivity is therefore a key requirement.
This means that the three-level units, or two-tiers as appropriate, should only be established where
adequate financial strength is present and/or the investment cash flow is supported by the assisted
entities and with an adequate return; and where institutional and management aspects are such as
to allow a self-reliant (e.g., Gujarat OF cooperatives) or evolution towards a self-reliant entity
(e.g., Karnataka), whether it is DCS, MPU or federation. It is also essential that the following
conditions are fulfilled: the entities are owned and directed by farmers under some form of
participatory decision-making; autonomy in pricing, investment and marketing decisions;



-19-
efficiency in production and processing, assuring better incomes to farmers and the lowest
possible price to consumers, and generating productivity increase of yield per animal per farm.
These conditions, by and large, prevail in Gujarat, but are present in widely varying degrees in
other states. Given these circumstances, the major challenge for the sustainability of the
cooperative dairy development is to further move the dairy cooperative structure in other states
towards adoption of OF principles as practiced in Gujarat. This will ensure provision of an
attractive price to retain and expand pouring members. This in turn depends on the ability of the
unions and federations to pass on the increased costs in the form of reasonably higher prices to
consumers. With the exception of Gujarat, all the other states exercise some control on liquid
rmilk prices in the metro cities like Bangalore, Calcutta, Hyderabad, Madras and New Delhi. As
the prices in these cities are not likely to be increased in the immediate future, the options
available to the unions and federations are to introduce cost-reduction measures and expand into
high-value product markets. These steps must be complemented by measures for enhancing
animal productivity, training and technical assistance for cooperatives, improvements in financial
management, auditing and cost accounting, better market promotion and field monitoring and
evaluation. Continuing emphasis is also required on commercial and financial viability of
cooperatives. NDDB is aware of these shortcomings and has initiated programs to address these
issues.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
Identification and Preparation
58.           General. The conceptual foundation for the project (increasing milk supply to
satisfy the urban demand and improving yield per animal) was based on previous experience under
the three state-level projects and one national level project, in line with GOI's development
priorities for the livestock subsector. Owing to the rapid expansion of infrastructure during NDP-
I and the need to improve profitability of the federations and unions, the emphasis on Operation
Flood III was, rightly, placed more on consolidation than on expansion. The Bank's performance
in project identification and preparation was satisfactory.
Appraisal
59.           General. The performance of the Bank during the appraisal process was
satisfactory overall, though several shortcomings are noted below. Overall, the project appraisal
identified project goals and established concise project objectives consistent with sectoral
strategy. Two preappraisal and one appraisal mission with the participation of four, one and
seven professional specialists, respectively (including two from the EEC at appraisal), carried out
a thorough review of the project concept and components. The missions were fairly well
balanced and represented in relevant disciplines -- economics, dairy specialization, agro-industries
and marketing, livestock processing and financial analysis.
60.           Design. The appraisal mission supported the AMUL model and specifically set out
the objective of promoting the OF principles across India based on the observation that, where
these principles were applied, cooperatives were successful, in Gujarat and elsewhere. Financial



-20-
incentives were expected to draw other states progressively toward adopting the OF principles,
backed by the project's supporting conditionalities and the reviews of institutional features and
progress of implementing OF principles in the context of sub-project appraisals and the reviews of
the Federations' annual reports. The interference of the state governments in the appointment of
managing directors of federations, price regulations, etc. proved, however, tobe difficult to resist,
resulting in only partial achievement in most states of the OF principles of cooperative
management. The setting of project targets for the entire country, instead of by region or
individual states, had both negative and positive impacts. This strategy has tended to direct
investments to states with high potential for success, such as Gujarat, but it has reduced the rate
of expansion of cooperative dairy development in states resistant to the OF principles. On the
other hand, by not providing any state with a predetermined share of the project investment, it set
the stage for investment levels based on performance and institutional development, helping the
shift toward increased financial viability and adoption of OF principles that has occurred during
project implementation. Financial viability of the cooperatives was recognized as a critical
constraint at appraisal, and sub-project appraisal criteria were fashioned accordingly. There was
also a good computerized monthly reporting system of key data for each MIPU and additional
semi-annual reports were required from the Federations covering financial status, institutional
development and adoption of OF principles, but more searching indicators of financial
performance were not developed and would have helped closer monitoring of performance. For
example, loan recovery performance, already a casualtv under NDP-I, was not identified for
continuous monitoring. Also, inclusion of only the first three sub-projects for ex-ante review by
the Bank was too flexible, viewed in the context of development banks in India like the Industrial
Development Bank of India which had to submit to the Bank sub-projects exceeding a specified
value (for others, a summary statement after approval) for ex-ante review by the Bank. At
appraisal, NDDB was expected to require "participating cooperative institutions to appropriate
annually from net operating income an amount necessary to maintain equity in real terms before
profit distribution to members." This requirement was vague as the level of equity was not
defined either in relation to the proposed size of investment by an entity or the riskiness of such
investment or the level of debt held by the borrower.
61.          Technical. Sophisticated technology of new milk processing plants was directly
transferred to other states from the experience of Gujarat. It was too optimistic to expect them all
to adopt new technology when the investing SF or MNPU was unable to attract competent
personnel.
62.          Economic. Appraisal estimates of beneficiaries were exceeded, but cooperative
milk procurement was less than anticipated probably due to the loiberalization of the milk market
resulting in some market share being taken by the private sector. In the financial analysis,
investment needs in incremental working capital and land cost were ignored. Although
monitoring and evaluation arrangements were built into project design and also into NDDB's
monthly reporting, important variables (such as time and cost overruns, revised rate of return)
should also have been included as indicators for monitoring during supervision as a basis for
estimating by how much the assessment of the impact of a union or its investment had improved
or worsened.
63.          Institutional. The SAR identified institutional weaknesses of SFs and MPUs.
These were to be tackled through sub-project appraisals, for which guidelines were issued, and



-21-
the associated documentation by the Federations on their state of institutional development and
adherence to OF principles serving as criteria for cooperative financing decisions. This approach
and the supporting covenants provided a stisfactory framework for the progressive strengthening
of cooperative institutions during project implementation. Model action plans for addressing
anticipated issues as they arose would also have been helpful.
64.          Commitment. There was commitment both by GOI and NDDB. The commitment
of the participating federations and unions was a recognized risk and changeover to OF priniciples
was expected to be progressive and varying in pace by state, spurred on by the project's
conditionalities during implementation and by the process of sub-project approval by NDDB.
This required a firm stance during supervision of project implementation (paras 66-67), but may
also have been optimistic on the expected pace of change given past resistance in a number of
states.
65.          Skill Mix of the Appraisal Mission. The appraisal team consisted of five Bank
professionals and two EEC personnel, representing various specialized skills but without including
either a rural sociologist or a management expert. The socio-economic impact of the project as
well as managerial problems experienced by the federations and unions would have merited their
involvement to identify key constraints and possible solutions as well as appropriate monitoring
indicators.
Supervision
66.          Although supervision missions identified the technical, managerial--and in later
years-- the financial problems impeding project implementation, on balance the performance of the
supervision missions was deficient. Thirteen missions were fielded over 7.5 years from March
1988 to October 1995, at an average of one every seven months. Continuity in staffing between
appraisal and supervision was inadequate, but reasonable between supervision missions. Most
missions comprised at least two staff members. A sociologist was not present in any of the
supervision missions. Considering the projected impact on poverty and women, as well as
emerging management problems in many federations and unions, this represents a gross under-
representation of critically useful and relevant expertise, which was ignored even in the
composition of the mid-term review mission.
67.          Stress on farmers' control of cooperatives including their autonomy in pricing and
the need for viable cooperative operations was a continuing theme of the supervision missions.
There are other equally important aspects which were given inadequate attention by the
supervision missions. The supervision mission of March/April 1989 relaxed sub-project appraisal
conditions to speed up the processing backlog, allowing regional NDDB management to make an
assessment of milk to be procured and marketing/utilization of procured milk, and examination of
investment costs, all to be reasonable. "The resulting recommendation by the Project Finance and
Management Services Group to the committee for approval of the sub-projects would include
conditions necessary to obtain the commitment of the borrowing cooperative for an in-depth
appraisal at a later date, and for the implementation of any resulting recommendations necessary
to ensure an efficient and viable operation." This relaxation was in effect a relaxation of Bank
standards, which had already been downgraded by the Bank's acceptance of ROI instead of the
FRR methodology for the appraisal of the first three sub-projects. This has, in a way, severed the



-22-
link between sub-project approval and procurement, as demonstrated by the approval of a sub-
project costing Rs1,000 million on the basis of only a FAO technical report, while procurement
has been approved without proper financial analysis. The Bank's reactivation of the FRR
methodology in 1993 prevented NDDB from proceeding with a number of partially prepared sub-
projects. As a result, the Bank was faced with a flood of sub-project proposals submitted just
before the original closing date of December 31, 1994. This made things difficult both for NDDB
and the Bank. Cooperative projects financed by NDDB required intensive supervision to ensure
good standards for sub-project appraisal.
68.          The extension of the closing date was another point of contention between the
Bank and NDDB. The Bank's performance on this subject was not satisfactory. After agreeing to
an expansion of project targets and conveying a positive signal that the Credit would be extended
by 15 months, the first extension was given for 12 months until December 31, 1995. The Bank
again raised hopes for a further extension when the senior officers of the Resident Mission visited
NDDB in 1995. But finally, the Bank agreed only to a further partial extension up to April 30,
1996.
69.          The supervision missions have not given a proper performance rating in the initial
year --1988. It was strange that the project was rated '1' when delays in audits/final accounts of
MIPUs and SFs did not allow verification of ROI methodology. Later supervision reports
(December 1989 and October 1990) still gave a rating of' 1' while little or no reference was made
to the financial performance of cooperatives (SFs and MIPUs), sub-project appraisals and loan
repayment.
70.          Physical indicators of project implementation given in the supervision reports
(December 1993, December 1994 and October 1995) present a different picture. Reference to
incremental achievements, while not relating SAR targets with actuals, will not give directly the degree
of achievement, compared to appraisal targets.
71.          The Bank anticipated the importance of monitoring and evaluation (M&E), at least
in certain aspects of the project and made provisions for this. However, the results of M&E
activities did not meet the expectations.
72.          Particularly in later supervision missions, the Bank raised issues of concern and
showed also flexibility in agreeing to increase the disbursement percentage, ROI methodology for
sub-project appraisal and speeding up approval of sub-projects.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Preparation
73.          General. The project was prepared adequately by NDDB and approved by GOI,
as the OF III program to be implemented nation-wide. The OF III program was divided into a
number of sub-projects with specific physical and financial targets for each state and by each
participating federation and union.



-23-
Implementation
74.          The direct responsibility of implementation of these sub-projects was entrusted to
the respective federations and unions. The NDDB was responsible for appraisal and monitoring
of sub-projects as well as rehabilitation plans, supporting centralized functions such as planning,
coordination, national milk grid and stabilization, productivity enhancement and support for
disease control, bulk procurement of equipment and turnkey assignments.
75.          The performance of NDDB and a number of the participating federations and
unions was, by and large, satisfactory. During the implementation period, NDDB has assisted the
federations and unions in the design and erection of processing plants either on a turnkey basis or
on a consultancy basis. Several new measures were introduced to improve performance of the
federations and unions. Participatory resource management was initiated in 1993/94 as a pilot
project in five milksheds - Kolar in Karnataka, Patna in Bihar, Valsad in Gujarat, Barabanki in
Uttar Pradesh and Ropar in Punjab. It helped to enhance milk production through tailor-made
technical input package based on the specific needs of the farmers. The Cooperative
Development Program, which was aimed at educating the farmers, Boards of Directors and staff
of the milk unions, showed encouraging results in terms of increase in membership (including
women members), member participation in the managing committees and general body meetings.
The quality assurance program implemented in Patna and other dairies contributed significantly to
the improvement in quality of processed milk.
76.          The success in implementation progress was not without its problems. The rapid
expansion of DCS and MPUs under NDP-I would have been difficult to absorb administratively
even for the best managed institutions and it has, predictably, placed NDDB's systems, and staff
under serious strain. NDDB's record of sub-project approvals suffered.
77.          A review of sub-projects approved under the project indicates that 50 units had an
ROI between 12-13%, 26 between 14-16% and another 23 exceeding 16%. Thus, about 50% of
the sub-projects had a ROI marginally above the cut-off rate (12%), requiring intense monitoring
for time and cost-overruns as well as product prices, in order to be able to take timely corrective
action. Field visits indicate that identification of the critical factors has never been a problem.
However, enforcement of corrective measures (e.g., increase in selling prices) continued to be a
stumbling block, given the political realities. The achievement of rates of returns estimated at
appraisal became difficult due to lack of enforcement of either the required price levels or staff
reduction.
78.          There was also increasing concern over the deteriorating loan recovery
performance, which required more attention to loan collection than loan disbursements. As a
result, a comprehensive state-wide rehabilitation plan is being implemented in Rajasthan and
selective interventions are being made in other places - Mysore union in Karnataka, Jalgoan union
in Maharashtra and Dharwar union in Karnataka. The implementation of the Integrated Business
Plan in Mysore union involving the participation of operational staff was a commendable
achievement.
79.          Because of non-compliance with OF conditionality, funds were not released to
Tamil Nadu. The Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu federation has expressed his dismay at
not getting any release of funds for work carried out by the federationlunions. Despite the



-24-
embargo, own funds have been utilized to avoid cost overruns and hence to safeguard the viability
of the sub-projects. As a result, unions are short of funds to make milk payments on time. As no
embargo was applied on turnkey projects carried out by NDDB itself, non-release of funds for
work carried by the federation/unions would appear strange, particularly when the state
government has promised to hold elections (for the cooperatives) in three to four months. During
the ICR mission's discussions with the Minister and the Secretary for Dairy Development, it
became clear that such elections would be held and that milk prices in Madras city would be
adjusted upwards. Given this situation, it seems prudent to explore funding sources and terms to
reimburse claims from Tamil Nadu and from Maharashtra as a matter of priority. This will help to
minimize payment delays to farmers.
80.          The contribution of the NDP-II project to improving the capability of NDDB is
hard to isolate since the Board has gained from concurrent implementation of grant funding by the
EU as well as interaction with Bank staff since 1981 and expatriate consultants provided under
FAO funds-in-trust arrangement and EU. The major institutional benefits of this interaction
include: (a) diversification into high-value milk products; (b) growth in the numbers of women
members of the DCS; (c) increased choice of brands for consumers of ghee, butter or milk
powder; and (d) quality improvement of processing plants.
81.          As a part of a successful national program, the project had the full comrnmitment of
GOI and NDDB. Compliance with covenants was, however, partial (see para 4 and Table 10 of
Part II).
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
82.          The project's outcome is rated satisfactorv on the basis that the provision of a
reliable market for milk is a necessary condition for increased production and productivity. The
presence of DCSs has generally forced the traditional traders to pay competitive prices. The
project has created viable businesses and these have contributed substantially to the expansion of
rural incomes and improved milch animal productivity. NDDB is taking, and will continue to
take, action to improve the performance of some of the weaker/ailing units, but optimization of
producer benefits cannot be sustained without farmer control and direction of the cooperatives.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
83.          Following discussions with NDDB on an operations/action plan for the completion
of all ongoing sub-projects and also to maximize net benefits, NDDB has indicated that it would:
(a) help completion of all unfinished sub-projects by June 1997, and make available adequate
funds for this purpose on a full-loan basis at an annual interest rate of 14-15%; (b) continue the
cooperative development program covering selected DCSs; (c) intensify its efforts to rehabilitate
selected federations and MPUs on the lines adopted in Mysore union (now extended to Dharwar
union) or in Jalgaon union; and (d) encourage cooperatives to upgrade their productivity
enhancement programs. While Tamil Nadu federation and unions have utilized their own funds
due to an embargo on funds release by NDDB, Maharashtra has ongoing sub-projects due to their



-25-
under discussion between the concerned states and NDDB.
84.           An evaluation of the impact of the Bank's support to the Indian dairy sector from
its beginning is currently underway. It is undertaken by the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department and will incorporate findings about the impact of NDP-II.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
85.           The main lessons learned during project implementation are as follows:
(a)    In any project involving farmer-controlled cooperatives, an understanding of the
proper role of government in project implementation is crucial. Project design
should explicitly take this role into account. The AMUL model, a successful
experience in milk collection, processing and marketing, controlled and directed
by farmers in Guj'arat, was considered feasible for replication in other states
which had different cooperative traditions and culture. The model hinges on
autonomous farmer control at DCS, union and federation levels. The mission
finds that many other state governments do not ftully support the concept of
farmer control at the union and federation levels. The requirement of state
guarantee for loans taken by unions or federations has not helped the
development of a 'hands-off'policy of state governments. It would, therefore,
appear that a successful expansion of AMUL principles throughout the country
requires, in the final analysis, a supportive role by governments to the
cooperative movement such as presently enjoyed in Karnataka and Bihar.
Accordingly, the Bank might have taken a tougher line during project
supervision in scrutinizing sub-project appraisals rejecting those of states which
did not meet an acceptable level of compliance with the institutional
requirements of the project.
(b)    In a sheltered industry, promotion of competition is essential to enhance
operating efficiency. Although private competition has adversely affected
cooperative milk procurement in the early years after delicensing, it has helped to
raise cooperatives out of their complacency and acted as a spur to efficiency in
many cases, forcing them to contract out some of their activities to the private
sector such as milk transport, packing and maintenance of factory gardens.
(c)    In project design, especially in the case of complex development programs,
particular attention should be paid to assessing the existing situation and to
devising ways to overcome or manage existing impediments. In NDP-II, the
quality of management was perceived as a principal risk, thus requiring special
attention.



-26-
(d)    Development of fully sustainable operations in a consumer industry requires the
involvement of a regulatory body to assure product quality. At present this role
is performed by NDDB. However, there is a conflict of interest between
NDDB's function as the apex body for the dairy cooperative system and an
industry-wide regulatory function. Most of the dairy plants visited made heavy
demands on NDDB for technical assistance in all aspects of the dairy sector.
There was general agreement that the industrji would meet some of the costs of
a separate regulatory body. However, the Government must also make a
contribution to the agency which would be responsible for maintaining quality
standards for technically guiding the industry, and for ensuring that good
manufacturing practices are applied throughout the dairy industry.
(e)    Government commitment to resolving sectoral and state-wide issues is critical to
the successful project implementation and operation. In NDP-II, solutions to
some problems depended on the willingness of state governments to address
difficult issues which could not be resolved at project level, e.g. adoption of OF
III principles, pricing decisions, amendment to State Cooperative Acts and
reduction in staffing.
(f)    State governments must be fully involved in the design of reforms sponsored
by the central government as a basis for project design. Some of the reforms
implicit in OF III principles initiated by NDDB covered the true cooperative
principles. While it is too early to say whether NDP-II has been successful in
having a lasting effect on the dairy cooperative structure, the Bank's positive
support to project investment and compliance with OF principles proved
valuable to India's drive to increase milk output.
(g)   For a project of the size and scope of NDP-II, the Bank should have insisted
on the establishment and monitoring of key performance indicators aimed at
providing intermediate assessments of project outcomes and likely impacts.
(h)   The Bank should not add new sub-projects toward the end of the project
implementation period without first examining both the prospects for timely
completion and for achieving satisfactory benefits. The inclusion of
additional sub-projects within the last two years before Credit closing (e.g.
Maharashtra) has been one of the reasons for the delay in the completion of
NDP-II. The experience of NDP-I had already taught this lesson which was
not applied to the follow-on NDP-II. While utilization of Credit savings was
a major objective of these additions, the prospect of delays in completion and
accrual of benefits therefrom should have received adequate scrutiny before
this decision was made.



-27-
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial    Partial   Negligible Not Applicable
Macro policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives             7                         z
Institutional development        F1            0            .
Physical objectives                          F g                       F 
Poverty reduction                7            7            g           7
Gender issues                     E                        7          :
Other social objectives           E                        7
Environmental objectives                                  EI F0I
Public sector management         LI           L                 I7
Private sector development                    LI          LI           [
Other (specify)                    I           0I                      
B. Project sustainability         Likely      Unlikely   Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance           satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                 9           F
Preparation assistance         7]                       LIE
Appraisal                      LI                       L I
Supervision                    LI             I3



-28-
fighly
D. Borrower performance         satisfactorv  Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                   F9           F           r
Implementation                             E            LI
Covenant compliance           EI                       BIJ
Operation (if applicable)      K]           E           L
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of outcome       satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactorv Unsatisfactory
'3    J     F  I')



-29-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                         Purpose                      Year of approval                Status"
Preceding operations
1. Karnataka Dairy Development        To develop an integrated programme for         June 1974           Closed. PCR issued.
Project (Cr.482-IN) US$30 M         increasing milk production and
marketing in the rural areas and
technical services for artificial
insemination and animal health, as well
as establishing an integrated cooperative
organizational structure for dairy
development.
2. Rajasthan Dairy Development        To raise the level of income of the rural      Dec. 1974           Closed. PCR issued.
Project (Cr.32 1 -IN) US$27.7 M     poor through improved milk production
and marketing, and establish an
integrated cooperative organizational
structure for dairy development.
3. Madhya Pradesh Dairy               To increase milk production, raise the         Dec. 1974           ClosedL PCR issued.
Development Project (Cr.522-IN)     level of income of the rural poor, and
USS16.4 M                             establish a cooperative organizational
structure for dairy development.
4. National Dairy Project             To assist dairy development on a               June 1978           Closed. PCR issued.
(Cr.824-IN) US$ 150 M               national scale, forming part of the
Operation Flood programme which set
up an integrated cooperative structure to
meet the country's increasing need for
milk and milk products, and provide
remunerative prices to the milk producer
in rural areas.
Following operations
Nil
l' A combined Project Performance Audit Report on the four projects was issued on June 30, 1987.



-30-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            Date planned           Date actual/
l                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~latest estimate l
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                          July 25, 1986
Preparation                                __Nov/Dec. 1986
Appraisal                                       Feb. 1987         March/April 1987
Negotiations                                  Sept.10, 1987        Nov. 2-6, 1987
Letter of development policy (if applicable)      N.A.                  N.A.
Board presentation                            June 9, 1987          Dec. 15, 1987
Signing                                                             Jan. 13, 1987
Effectiveness                                                       April 8, 1988
First tranche release (if applicable)             N.A.                  N.A.
Midterm review (if applicable)                                       Dec. 199 11l
Second (and third) tranche release (if            N.A.                  N.A.
applicable)
Project completion                            June 30, 1994         April 30, 1996
Loan closing                                  Dec. 31, 1994        April 30, 19962
NA = Not applicable.
' EEC initiated a comprehensive mid-term review with the participation of the Bank.
Z As an exceptional case, expenditures and the related reimbursement claims to be made by
April 30, 1996.



-31-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY88   FY89    FY90       FY91      FY92      FY93     FY94     FY95      FY96
IBRD Loan (US$ M)
Appraisal estimate                 -        -        -       30        90       150      200       200       200
Actual                             -        -        -         -        -         -      53.5     89.0      117.1
IDA Credit (SDR M)
Appraisal estimate               34.8    68.2     98.5    121.2    121.2    121.2    121.2    121.2         121.2
Actual                           12.7    40.4     48.0      73.1      93.9    120.7    121.2    121.2       121.2
Total Loans & Credit (US$ M)
Appraisal estimate               46.0    90.0    130.0    190.0    250.0    310.0    360.0    360.0         360.0
Actual                           17.7    53.5     63.4      97.9    126.4    163.7    217.9    253.4        281.5
Actual as % of Appraisal
Loan                               0       0         0        0         0         0       27      44.5        59
Credit                            36      59        49       60        77        99      100       100       100
Loan & Credit                     38      59        49       52        51        53       61        70        78
Date of final disbursement          June 24, 1996
Loan of US$53 M was cancelled in September 1995 and a further amount of USS29.9 million cancelled in June 1996.



-32-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I Key Implementation             Unit     Targets as per   Achievement at    Achievement as %      Revised      Achievement as
Indicators in SAR/                           SAR          Completion        of SAR Targets       Targets       % of Revised
President's Report                                                                                               Targets
Milk Procurement
- Average                       Tkgpd            13,700       10,974                80                14,500         76
* Peak                          Tkgpd            18,300       13,400               73                 20,000         67
M [ilk Processing
- Rural & metro processing       Tlpd            24,800       19,200               77                 29,300         66
-Drying capacity                Mtpd              1,100         990                90                  1,128          88
- Chilling capacity              Tlpd             7,200        8,700               121                 9,950          87
Liquid Milk Marketing
|  Metro dairies                Tlpd              4,800       7,2001               150                 4,770         151
O- ther dairies                  Tlpd             8,400        7,600               90                  5,655         134
- Total                         Tlpd             13,200       14,800               112                10,425         142
- Road milk tankers              No.               996        1,133                114                 1,369         83
National Milk Grid
M Milk powder storage            MT              47,300       35,975               76                 38,100         94
- Butter storage                 MT              13,200        8,926               68                 12,000          74
- Rail milk tankers              No.                183         169                92                    174         97
FeecdFodder Development
- Cattlefeed plants             Mtpd              4,700         844                 18                 5,805          15
l  `- lB plants                  No.                25           15                60                     11         136
- Seed processing units          No.                  9           5                 56                     7          71
M- inikitsivarietal demos.       '000              220         486.5               221                  600           81
- Silvipasture
- Commnunity lands            Ha              12,500       1,748z               14                  1,700         103
- Private lands               Ha              7,500       17,250k              230                17,000          101
-Total                        Ha             20,000       18,998                95                18,700         101
Animal Health
- First aid centres              No.             37,942      27,484i 1             72                 37,942         72
Genetic Improvement
- DCS covered by Al              No.             21,921       16,797i2             77                 12,000         140
- Ais per year                  .000              5,200       3,948a               76                  4,200         94
- Bulls for natural service      No.              2,500        621-                 8                   621          100
- Semen production stations      No.                 15          2                  13                   15          13
- Bull mother farms              No.                 17          I 5 ,.            88                     15         100
- Centres for sire evaluation    No.                 10         60'                60                     10         60
Cooperative Development
- Mlilksheds                     No.                190         170                89                   170          100
- Societies                      No.             70,000       71,800               103                70,000         103
Training
- Union level                    No.                         283,110                -               275,445          103
- NDDB level                     No.                          12,420                                  15,074          82
Monitoring & Evaluation
- NDDB M & E Unit                No.                  1           I                100                     I         100
- Baseline survey                No.                  I           1                100                     I         100
- Annual HH survey               No.                 7          64-                914                     4       1,600
11In addition to 4 metro dairies, other big cities like Bangalore, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad are considered as metro dairies.
a Targets were revised as mid-term correction.
i2 As of March 31, 1996. (cont.)
4/ Because of dovetailing of these services througb TMDD, requirement for First Aid centres was reduced.
' Natural services withdrawn from the scope of OF III from April 1993 and included under Soyabean project financed by GOI.
D Due to reduction in Al centres, target for sire evaluation centres reduced.
7. Instead of conducting all India household surveys annually, the need-based surveys were conducted - Rural & All India - two
completed and one in progress; District level - 35 and urban in 27 towns.



-33-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not identified at appraisal)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                        at appraisal/redefined                    Status                   Impact of study
1. Socio-economic Study for the  T o obtain a more in-depth assessment of    Completed for the country as a   Base-line study and follow-
southem states                   the socio-economic impact of Operation  whole.                        up completed in 1988 &
(SAR para 3.28)                Flood.                                                                1996 respectively with EU
funding.
2. Marketing studies             To undertake market analysis and        Several small studies         All studies financed by EU
(SAR para 3.29)                develop marketing strategies and a      completed.                    and their impact is mixed.
promotional programme oriented in
particular towards expanding liquid milk
marketing and introducing profitable milk
products.



-34-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Project Components                               Appraisal Estimate       Actual Expendirture up to     Costs to Complete                 Final Cost
Credit Closure Apil 30,       June 30, 1977
1996
(Rs 000)     (US$ million)    (Rs 000)   (USS000)      (Rs 000)    (US$ 00       (Rs 000)          (US$ 000)
____________ _                                                            0)
A  Processing Capacityti                       3,047,900       225,770     6,497,043      260,136       313,006       9,073       6,810,049            269,209
B. Technical Inputs
1 Feed & Fodder
- Catte feed plants                             154,938         11,477
- Ureaimolasses bbck plants                      40,000          2,963
- Seed processing plants                         10,080           747
- Svipasture & fodder devebpment                 80,786          5,984
Sub-total                                       285,804         21 171      419,844        22,182        12,001        348          431,845             22,530
2. Arimal Breeding
- Semen produchon                                67,424          4,994        9,969
- Fied Al programme                             124,987          9,258       49,372
- Sre evaluation                                 66,900          4,956       31,544
- Vetennary services                             61295           4,540          549
Sub-:otal                                       320 606         23,748       91,434         2,843             -          -           91,434              2,843
C. 12;k Marketing System!'                     1,459 718       108,127     2,476,576       87,285       279,230      8,094        2,755,806             95,379
D. SuPport to Village Cooperatives              852,850         63,174     1,066,401       47,949             -           -       1,066,401             47,949
E M.Iarketing Programme M & E, Training,
Reseanch & Studies
I Miarket Promotion                              21,723          1,609
2. -raning                                      308,441         22 848
3. Research, Studies, M & E and                  67,763          5,020
Ccnsultants
Sub--toal                                       397,927         29 477      572,082        26,059                                   572,082             26,059
F National Milk Gnd and Stabilization!i         546 380         40,473      466,736        23,278                                   466,736             23,278
G Disease ControUMilk Production
Enhancement
I But Production & Procurement                   33.158          2,456
2. F,I,D Control                                160 999         11,926
Sub-,otal                                       194 157         14.382      358,984        15,838                                   358,984             15 838
Totai Base Costs                               7105 342        526,322
Phys:cal contingencies                          100 409          7,437
Pnce contingencies                             1943 764        143.983
Tota, Project Cost                             9149 515        677,742    11,949,100      485,570       604,237      17,515      12,553,337            503 085
Costs nclude 5% physicai contingencies on processing capacity, milk marketing systems and National Mik Gnd and stabilization.



-35-
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                               Appraisal Estimate        Actualllatest Estimate
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
IBRD/IDA                                   360                         282
Co-financing Institutions
Other external sources                                                                ||
Domestic contrbution (NDDB)"               318                         221
TOTAL                                      678                         503
' Includes funds generated from commodity aid, valued atabout US$150 million.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Variables                        Appraisal Estimate              ICR Estimate
Incremental milk                      5.2 mLpd                     4.0 mLpd
procurement
Additional beneficiary                2 million                    4.1 million
households                                                                            l
Net Present Value (Rs               4,220 million                5,200 million
millilon) of the project
Economic Rate of Return                   27                           21
Underlying Assumptions:
- Project life (years)                    20                           20
Financial Rate of Return
(O ):.
- An average DCS                          15                           17
- A new MPU dairy plant                   20
- An existing city dairy                  28                           30
plant                                     18                           12
- A feeder balancing dairy
plant (Ghandinagar)                       16                           9
- A cattle feed plant



-36-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement/    Covenant   Present  Original        Revised      Description of Covenant        Comments
Section         Type        Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date        Date
DCA 3.01(b)    3           C         //           //          GOI to re-lend World Bank loan   In compliance.
to NDDB at 7.5% over 15 years.
NDDB to re-lend investment
loans to State Feds. & Milkshed
Union at 10% over 15 years
(with working capital loans at
least 1.5% higher than for
investment loans).
DCA 4.01(b)    I           C         //          //           GOI to submit audit reports for   In compliance.
the project's Special Account and
Statement of Expenditure within
6 months of the end of fiscal
year.
DCA 4,02       5,12        C         //           //           GO to continue to ensure that    In compliance.
NDDB shall have managerial
and financial autonomy.
DCA 4.03       9,12        CP        /G/ //                     OI to cause project states to  Compliance with OF
ensure that: (1) project State  conditionalities varies
Feds. Milkshed Unions &        across states. There have
District Coop. Socs. follow    been improvement with
Schedule 2 of PA (OF           around 75% of entities
conditionality); and (2) State  having adopted OF
Feds. to follow PA 2.13, which  conditionalities. State Feds.
requires them to submit satis-  have submitted annual
factory annual development     plans for FY94/95 covering
plans to NDDB.                 almost all milksheds.
PA 2.07(a)     9,12        CP        //           //           NDDB to ensure to DCSs, MPUs   Only 4 states are not in
and State Feds. function under    compliance. All other states
by-laws and charters consistent    have incorporated
with OF III principles.        provisions fostering coop.
spirit in their by-laws.
Problem is unlikely to be
resolved due to impending
legal provisions in the Coop.
Acts in the 4 states.
PA 2.07(b)     9,12        C         //           //          NDDB only to approve state      In compliance.
plans and sub-projects which
comply with, or demonstrate
significant progress in adopting
the OF conditionality in
Schedule 2 of PA.
PA 2.08        5, 10       CD        //          //           NDDB to appraise sub-projects    After Bank intervention,
and ensure they meet certain   criteria for approving sub-
criteria (set out in PA 2.08 incl.    projects is being applied
an FRR of at least 12%), and   satisfactorily. Most coop.
institutions receiving NDDB    have shown substantial
project sub-loans deduct an    increases in their member
amount necessary to maintain   equity which increased by
equity in real terms before    32% during FY95.
paying dividend and bonuses.



-37-
Agreement/    Covenan   Present  Original       Revised      Description of Covenant        Comments
Section        t Type     Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date        Date
PA 2.10        1          CP       //           //           NDDB to cause State Feds., Milk-  Despite some improvement
shed Unions and District Co-   in recent years, there are still
operative Societies (DCSs) to  arrears: in all 12 unions
have their financial statements    (TN), since 1993/94; 11
audited annually, and State Feds.  unions out of 13 in
and Milkshed Unions to submit    Karnataka since 1987/88 (1);
to NDDB their audited financial   1991/92 (4),1993/94 (3); 6
state-ments, including a       unions out of 11 in AP since
summary state-ment relative to    1991/92 (2) and 1993/94 (4);
the findings of the DCs within 6    and 2 unions out of 3 in
months of the end of the fiscal  Kerala.
year.
PA 2.11        9          C        / /          //           NDDB shall monitor the progress  In compliance. Time and
of each sub-project against    cost overruns as well as re-
specific targets acceptable to the    estimation of FRR are
Bank.                          however not done regularly.
PA 2.12        9          C        //           //           NDDB to submit to the Bank     Reports are being submitted
semi-annual progress reports   regularly for semesters
within 90 days of end of       ending March and
semester.                      September each year.
PA 2.13(a)     10,12      C        //           //           NDDB to ensure that State Feds.   State Feds. have submitted
prepare annual dairy           annual plans covering
development plans, updated by    almost al milksheds to
end of each calendar year,     NDDB for FY95.
satisfactory to NDDB and the   Management control and
Bank, including physical and   review at state level is
institutional develop-ment     adequate and physical and
targets for the coming year &  financial targets are being
review of previous year's      monitored in the half-yearly
achievements.                  progress reports.
PA 3.04        5          C        //           //           NDDB to review with Bank, at    In compliance.
least once each year, NDDB's
annual work programme and
budget for the project.
PA 4.01        1          C        //           /            NDDB to submit the audit report  In compliance.
for project accounts within 6
months of the end of fiscal year.
PA 4.02        1          C        / /          / /          NDDB to maintain separate      In compliance.
accounts for Operation Flood
activities.
PA 4.03        2.12       CP       //           //           NDDB to take steps satisfactory    Specific action has been
to the Bank to progressively   initiated to charge for
reduce OF subsidies.           services provided. However,
as full cost recovery is yet to
be obtained in many assisted
entities, this cannot be
considered "full
compliance".
PA 4.04        12         C        //           //           NDDB to continue its ongoing   In compliance.
review of India's dairy
commodity aid and trade
agreements.



-38-
Agreement/    Covenan   Present  Original      Revised      Description of Covenant        Comments
Section        t Type    Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date        Date
PA 4.05        4.5       C        12/31/91     //           NDDB to ensure that: (1) price of  In compliance.
domestically produced re-
constituted milk is at least the
average production cost; and (2)
price of dairy commodities
imported under commodity aid
arrangements for OF III is at least
as comparable domestic
commodities.
PA 4.06        5         CP       //           //           NDDB to ensure that its sub-   Investment loans are
loans to project coops. are   generally covered by state
adequately secured.           government guarantees,
working capital loans by
state government
guarantees, commercial
bank guarantees, or
inventories. However, three
states - Madhya Pradesh,
Punjab and Rajasthan - have
yet to execute the
guaranteed deed.
PA 4.07        5         C        //            /           NDDB to maintain adequate     In compliance.
internal control procedures and
departmental responsibilities,
induding adequate separation of
the staff responsible for planning
and promoting activities from
those responsible for their
approval.
Status: C = Covenant complied with; CD  complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(Not applicable for this project)



-39-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                             Revised                            Actual
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks               US$              Weeks              US$            Weeks              US$
Preparation to                          -                                                                         73.2        N.A.
appraisal
Appraisal                                -                                                                        64.5         N.A.
Negotiations through                                                -                                                  -
Board approval
Supervision                             -                                                                       238.5
Completion                              -                                                                        19.3"'
TOTAL                                                                                                          395.5
-'Includes only time used by FAO/CP.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of              Month/           Number       Days in        Specialized       Implemen-        Develop-        Types of
project cycle             year             of           field        staff skills        tation           ment         problems2'
persons                    represented"         status        objectives
Preappraisal I            Nov/Dec.86              4           26       EC,DS,AS,LP
Preappraisal 2            Jan/Feb.87              1            28      FA
Appraisal                 Mar/April 87        5 + 2 EEC       21       FA,EC,DS,AS,
LP + EEC
Supervision:
I                        March 88                2            15      FA,DS                      2               2              M
2                         SeptlOct.88        6 + 3 EEC        21       FA,PS,LP,M&E,T            I               I              M
S +EEC
3                        Mar/April 89        2 + I EEC        17      FA,EC + EEC                I               1              M
4                        Dec. 89             5 + 4 EEC        25      FA,EC(2),PS,DS +           I               I              M
EEC
5                        Sept. 90            2 + I EEC        8       EC(2) + EEC                I               I              M
6                        Nov/Dec.90          5 + 3 EEC        24       EC(2),FA(2),LP +          I               1             F, M
EEC
7                        July 91                 2             8       EC, FA                    I               1             F, M
8                        Nov/Dec.91              4            21       EC,FA,LP,AG               I               I               F
9                         Aug. 92                2             3       AG,FA                     I                       |     F, M
10                        Feb/Mar.93              I           31       FA                        2               2              F, M
II                        Nov/Dec.93             4            22       FA(2),OP,AG               2               2             F, M
12                        Oct/Nov.94             2            23       FA,OP                     S               S             F, M
13                        Oct. 95                 1           19      FA                        S               S               M
Completion                May/June 96         3 + 4 EEC        26      FA,CS,LP
AG = Agriculturist; AS = Agro-industry Specialist; CS = Cooperative Specialist; DS = Dairy Specialist; EC = Economist;
FA = Financial Analyst; LP = Livestock Processing Specialist; M & E = Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist; OP = Operations Officer
(Senior).
21 F = Financial; M = Managemeut.



40                                Appendix A
Page 1 of 15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
(Cr.1859-IN and Ln.2893-IN)
Appendix A
Mission Aide-Memoire
Introduction
1.    An FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme mission' with the participation of an E.U.
team2 and Mr. Harideep Singh from the World Bank Resident Mission, New Delhi, on a part-time
basis, visited India from May 13 to June 7, 1996, to review implementation performance of the
Second National Dairy Project and prepare its Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Mr.
Herman van Wersch (from the World Bank's Agriculture and Water Operations Division in
Washington) also took part in the wrap-up meeting on June 7, 1996. After initial meetings with
the Chairman (Dr. V. Kurien), the Managing Director (Dr. A. Patel) and other senior officials of
the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), the mission made field visits to Andhra Pradesh
(AP), Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu (TN) Uttar Pradesh (UP), and West Bengal
(WB), and held discussions with the participating State Federations (SF), Milk Producers' Union
(MPU) and Dairy Cooperative Societies (DCSs) as well as some private dairies. The mission also
met with the TN Minister for dairy development and his secretary. In addition, the mission was
presented with a summary of project performance both by the regional officers of the NDDB and
by the State Federations at Anand (Western Region), Bangalore (Southern Region), Calcutta
(Eastern Region) and New Delhi (Northern Region). The purpose of this aide-memoire is to
present to NDDB the mission's findings on the implementation performance of the Second
National Dairy Project.
2.    The mission wishes to thank all concerned staff for the assistance and hospitality extended
to the mission during its stay in the country.
Messrs. K. Selvavinayagam (Financial Analyst, Mission leader), J.A. Phelan (Livestock Industry
Specialist) and Mrs. Frances Sinha (Cooperatives Management Specialist, Consultant)
2  Messrs. P. Mcneil (Economist, EU team leader), H.M. Olsson (Finance Specialist), J. Kilduff
(Livestock Specialist), and P. Jorgensen (Marketing Specialist)



41                               Appendix A
Page 2 of 15
B.  The Project
3.    Background: The history of Bank assistance to the dairy subsector in India dates back to
1974 when three state level (Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan) dairy development
projects were financed. These were followed by two national level projects (National Dairy
Project Cr.824-IN and Second National Dairy Project Cr.1859-IN and Ln.-2893-IN). The five
projects supported Operation Flood (OF) which had been initiated in 1970 but had its roots in
1946 in Kaira district, Gujarat-
4.    Project Objectives: The Second National Dairy Project (NDP II) was designed in support
of OF III, drawing lessons from, and building on the implementation experience of the previous
four projects. The objectives of NDP II were to promote the establishment of viable cooperative
businesses, owned and managed by producers, for collecting, processing and marketing milk
products in order to expand rural incomes, and improve milch animal productivity. These were to
be achieved by: (a) expanding the integrated cooperative institutional structure; (b) providing the
necessary prerequisites for productivity enhancement; (c) establishment and expansion of milk
collection, processing, storage and distribution activities; and (d) strengthening institutions and
training.
5.    Appraisal Cost Estimates: The project, appraised in March/April, 1987, became effective
on April 8, 1988. It was to be financed over a 7-year period, and the total project cost including
physical and price contingencies was estimated at US$677.7 million (Rs.9149.5 m). The IDA
Credit of US$160 m and Bank Loan of US$200 m were to finance about 53% of the total project
costs. The remainder (Rs.4290 million or US$318 m) was to be met out of NDDB resources,
which were expected to be supplemented by commodity aid from the EEC, supplied on a grant
basis and equivalent to about US$150 m or Rs.2025 m.
6.    Special Legal Covenants: Special legal covenants or agreements that were expected to
promote achievement of project objectives were for NDDB (a) only to approve state plans and
sub-projects which comply with or demonstrate progress in adopting the OF conditionality; (b) to
ensure that DCSs, MPUs and state federations function under bye-laws consistent with OF
principles; (c) to take steps satisfactory to the Bank to progressively reduce subsidies, and for
GOI, (d) to cause project states to ensure that state federations, MPUs and DCSs follow OF
conditionality and state federations to submit satisfactory annual development plans.
7.    Strengthening of sub-project appraisal techniques and procedures was a key objective to
ensure viability of cooperative businesses. This was of critical importance for ensuring technically
and institutionally sound and financially viable development of the dairy cooperative sector. After
following the "return on investment" methodology in the initial years with the approval of the
Bank, NDDB has, since 1993, introduced at the request of the Bank, revised procedures taking
into consideration the main criteria of financial rate of return specified in the Project Agreement.
Other covenants have been partially complied with. For example, although action has been taken
to charge for services, full cost recovery has not been achieved by the closing date of the Credit.



42                                Appendix A
Page 3 of 15
8.    Operation Flood Principles: As regards the participating states, as of March 31, 1996,
Gujarat continued to be the only state in the country in which ownership and control of milk
industry was fully in the hands of farmers at all three - DCS, MPU, Federation - levels. All other
states continue to exercise some control through appointed administrators at union/federation
level, usually the latter. Common cadre system in some states, with frequent transfers, does not
help in promoting better management, accountability and stability of operations. Progress in
regularizing the situation is slow, thus delaying the application of the principles of Amul model
nationwide. The lack of compliance by the states in this respect is considered the most
detrimental constraint on OF generally and persist as the major outstanding issue in NDP II, as in
the previous four projects supported by the Bank.
9.    State Cooperative Acts: The legal framework, contained in the existing State Cooperative
Acts throughout the country, remains a major constraint. Amendments to the existing
cooperative acts along the lines of the Model Act drafted by the Planning Commission in 1991,
would provide the opportunity for cooperatives to manage their businesses economically and
efficiently and in line with cooperative principles. The Enactment of the Andhra Pradesh Mutually
Aided Cooperative Societies Act, 1995, represents a significant new development. It has resulted
from the combined persistence of the NDDB, the Cooperative Development Foundation and the
Cooperative Initiative Project - in a state where government interference has quite clearly
weakened the ability of the dairy cooperatives to compete with the growing private sector. It is
hoped that other states too will follow the AP example and enact new legislation to confer greater
functional autonomy on cooperatives, enabling them to frame and amend their own bye-laws,
conduct elections, hire chartered accountants of their choice, take investment decisions and
allocate funds independently of the government.
C.  Implementation Experience and Results
10.   Project Implementation: As in the case of its predecessor, OF III was successfully
implemented overall, but it too experienced considerable implementation difficulties. The most
common of these was the delay in execution of the agreements between NDDB and the state
governments, adoption of the OF principles and cooperative bye-laws, and later introduction of
appraisal methodology as specified in the Project Agreement, and delays in allocation of land,
adequate water and power by the state governments in some cases. Another factor contributing
to implementation delays has been the reorganization and merger of NDDB and IDC which took
longer than expected.
11.   As shown in Table I, the project had significant achievements, notwithstanding that such
achievement in most cases fell short of appraisal targets. Appraisal targets were surpassed with
respect to the number of DCS organized, the number of farm families covered, milk chilling
capacity, liquid milk marketing capacity and metro and milkshed dairies. The reasons for the
shortfalls in others have been identified and for the most part are being corrected. Much of the
credit must go to NDDB which acted as project promoters, consultants and financiers. It
provided a high level of promotional ability, technical skills, financial expertise and overall



43                                Appendix A
Page 4 of 15
control, without which the considerable gains made would not have been possible. Its innovative
approach to milk procurement and marketing, and rural organization, its dynamic management,
marketing and coordination expertise are all highly commendable.
12.   Actual Project Cost: The project was closed on April 30, 1996, 16 months behind
schedule with a total unused balance of US$... million. Current estimates indicate that final
completion of certain sub-projects is not likely to be achieved until June, 1997, although the
Loan/Credit closed on April 30, 1996. The final cost of the project is now estimated at Rs.12553
m (US$505 m), compared to the appraisal estimates of Rs.9150 m (US$678 m), representing a
37% cost overrun in nominal rupee terms. The Loan/Credit was able to finance about 61% of the
final estimated total project cost compared to 53% anticipated at appraisal.
13.   Results: The project, by and large, achieved its major objectives in Gujarat but only
partially in other states. Apart from direct cash purchase of raw milk by unions through the DCS
structure at attractive prices, their presence in the market has also provided competition, thereby
improving returns to producers in general, regardless of the purchasing agent. With the expansion
and consolidation of DCS, dairying clearly represents a very significant income generating activity
in many parts of the country and for different socio economic groups. Whilst the evidence is not
very systematic and varies considerably across areas, the impression from the areas visited by the
mission and from various sample surveys is that dairying can make a particularly significant
contribution to the income of small, marginal and landless farmers. The DCS represent a market
which is much fairer to the milk producer than the private vendor although the cooperative is not
(usually) able to replace or substitute for the pattern of advances which bind poorer milk
producers to the private vendor. The achievement of financial and management objectives has
been hindered by many factors including the lack of adoption of OF III principles fully except in
Gujarat, excessive staffing levels in state federations and MPUs, and limited freedom in setting
realistic prices. Poor management has also affected financial performance of unions and
federations. It is noteworthy that the project has generated substantial, though unquantified social
benefits to the community through provision of funds principally for village communal facilities,
school/college buildings and recreational facilities. In addition, women are increasingly enrolled
as DCS members (and, in some cases, in the management committee as well), in line with the
objectives of the Cooperative Development Programme, though their active participation is below
expectations. The economic rate of return for the project as a whole and financial rates of return
for selected sub-projects will be re-estimated and presented in the ICR. Similarly, the impact of
the project on incomes of farmers raising cross-bred cattle, compared to buffalo and local cattle
will also be estimated and presented in the ICR.
Main Findings
14.   Productivity Enhancement: A major thrust under OF III was to be an increase in animal
productivity supported by measures to promote animal health care, feed and fodder usage, genetic
improvement and better animal husbandry. Through the project period, increasing emphasis has
been placed on increasing cost recovery for technical input provision. This has been particularly
by direct payments by farmers for services used and through a charge on the milk price. The



44                                Appendix A
Page 5 of 15
charging policy varies between states and unions and is strongly influenced by the charging
policies of the Animal Husbandry Departments. This is a major issue for TMDD and the
dovetailing of OF and AHD services where progress is still very variable. In particular, extension
efforts are very limited. The participatory rural management approach being used on a pilot basis
has shown promise in identifying particular concerns of the farmers but extension should be
addressed by TMDD if the productivity enhancement objectives of sustainable and economically
viable production are to be achieved in the longer term.
15.   The artificial insemination programme has been strengthened technically by the policy of
developing "cluster" centres serving a number of villages rather than the single centres proposed
in the SAR. The Al programme is concentrated in a relatively small number of states and involves
both the upgrading of the buffaloes and the breeding of crossbred cattle. For the cattle, crossing
with Holstein Friesian blood has become increasingly important and crossbreds with rather high
exotic inheritance can be found even in the more resource poor rural areas - despite the SAR
recommendation that expansion of Al with exotic semen be limited to areas with relatively
favourable conditions. In some cases (Bihar) a number of farmers have been able to cope
surprisingly well with newly introduced crossbred cattle whereas in Eastern Andhra Pradesh the
introduction of such cattle was generally unsuccessful. The HF appears to be the breed of choice
of most farmers, but there may well be a case for the small landowner or landless members to
concentrate on the use of Jersey semen. HF is chosen on account of the greater quantity of milk
produced, but it may well be that the Jersey, with its lower fodder requirement and higher
butterfat production could be equally profitable where resources are severely limited. The
published reports of the numbers of calves born under the Al programme understate the
effectiveness of the operation. A particular problem is that there is a substantial trade in pregnant
animals of higher genetic potential so that the Al programme may have only a very limited impact
on milk production within the breeding village. Nevertheless, there is fairly wide variation in the
success rate of Al. Where records are available at DCS level, numbers of Bos cows conceiving to
first and second inseminations varies from as much as 73% to as little as 30%. The most likely
conclusion to be drawn is that this is the result of the varying degrees of expertise of the
inseminators and if resources allow it, it may be worthwhile to re-train those who appear to be
achieving a low success rate. Another problem which seems to occur is that many farmers seem to
miss observing the subsequent oestrus after Al. Several DCS records show that only 50% of
animals show positive when presented for PD three months after insemination. Clearly, this results
in a loss of production through extended calving intervals. Buffalo Al is even more variable, and
in the Amritsar area of Punjab many farmers are reverting to natural service. Both these matters
merit further attention.
16.   In most of the villages visited, the animal health services were given the highest ranking by
the farmers in terms of the importance of the input services provided by the unions. The change
during OF III from regular veterinary routes to the provision of emergency services and infertility
camps appears to have been accepted by the farmers as part of the rationalisation and cost
reduction programme. Village society secretaries have also been given training in basic animal
health care.



45                                 Appendix A
Page 6 of 15
17.   For livestock feeding, the process of producing urea molasses blocks has been changed
but the programme is still at a pilot stage. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the
blocks of mineral mixtures and anthelmintics. The greater use of such measures should
significantly improve animal health. In India, silvipasture can only play a minor role in the overall
fodder production. More recently, the provision of fodder seeds has been given greater priority in
addition to the programme of distributing mini kits and varietal demonstrations, but land
availability restricts the use of these to the larger landholder. However, landless and smaller
landholders can sometimes purchase standing crops from these more affluent farmers.
Demonstrations of the urea treatment of straw continue to be undertaken but the impact of the
programme still appears to be limited. If the widespread production of U 'Bs is resumed it
appears that the use of these will have a much wider rate of adoption than straw treatment.
18.   Processing and Marketing Facilities: The technology and equipment introduced were tried
and tested elsewhere and consequently there were no major problems with installations assisted by
the second National Dairy Project. The NDDB Engineering Group, with the assistance of experts
provided by the project, established drawings and specifications for the various projects and
offered turnkey consultancy service at a fee - 5% of sub-project cost.
19.   Where possible, NDDB prepared standardized specifications and drawings for items of
equipment which were common to a number of projects, e.g., storage tanks, pasteurizers, cleaning
systems, but also for cattle feed plants. High standards were set for locally produced equipment.
However, the expected cost savings were not always fully realized. Nevertheless, capital cost per
litre of processing capacity was below Rs.500 for most installations of expanded capacity.
20.   The financial feasibility calculations were based on high throughput rates for most of the
season (>70% utilization capacity) which may be difficult to achieve due to the high priority being
given to supplying the liquid milk market. Special mention is warranted for five major sub-
projects initiated in recent years at Gandhinagar, Amul, Kheda, Noida and Calcutta metro dairy.
All involved an increase in the level of automation which was justified as much on the basis of
quality and efficiency considerations as on labor savings. The standards for civil works were for a
combination of reasons set at a very high level. The first three plants involved a high capacity
energy- efficient plant for the production of milk powder, butter and cheese products, which met
highest international standards. Drying and mechanized automated cheese plants are capital
intensive and capital cost of Rs. 1000 per litre of processing capacity are acceptable, though
slightly on the high side.
21.   The Dairy at Noida also has a number of innovative features such as vertical design and an
ETP which combines anaerobic and aerobic treatment on a compact site. The total cost of the
project is estimated at Rs.430 million for 400,000 LPD of pasteurized milk in sachets. The fifth
plant at Metro Dairy, Calcutta is impressive by any standards and in addition to 400 K LPD liquid
milk, has facilities for ice cream and UTHT milk processing. The total cost is nearly Rs.500
million. The cost per liter of processing capacity in both cases is in excess of Rs. 1000 and this
will constitute an exceptionally high loan servicing and depreciation cost per liter of milk even at
100% capacity utilization. This must be taken in the context of total operating costs for liquid



46                               Appendix A
Page 7 of 15
milk in sachets of approximately Rs. 1.0 per liter given by both cooperative and private factories
supplying urban markets.
22.   Realizing the need for competent management of processing facilities, NDDB has to a
large extent, concentrated investment in Gujarat and mother dairies where required expertise was
available or secured without much difficulty and trained.
23.   Cattle Feed Plants (CFP): Some 1 1 cattle feed plants have been financed under the
project, mostly for expansion of existing capacities, and of these, six units were taken up under
NDP-1 and completed under NDP-II. The available operating results indicate that nine completed
(1992/93), eight (1993/94) and one (1994/95) have made small net profits. Pricing strategy
adopted by the federations/unions for cattle feed involved either making no-profit, no-loss
(Gujarat) or sell slightly below cost due to input cost increases ahead of price increase
(Karnataka), on the grounds that cattle feed is a necessary input for production of milk within the
system and the total operation of the federation/union (and not simply the CFP) should constitute
the criterion for financial viability. There is some merit in this argument provided that cross-
subsidy by MIPUs through DCSs does not penalize farmers purchasing cattle feed as against those
who do not buy from DCSs, although it was agreed during negotiations of the NDP-II that
investments in CFP should be viable, regardless of other activities of the federation/union. Field
visits indicate that some CFP units are incurring losses partly due to substandard product quality
which does not help them to achieve profitable levels (Madurai, Meerut), while some produce
good quality feed, capturing market in neighboring states (CFP in Punjab and Karnataka).
Another reason for low prices could be the desire to attract farmers to the cooperative fold.
Overall, action has been taken by NDDB to overcome these problems in several ways including
input cost control, range of feed production and feed grid.
24.   Cooperative Development: A significant contribution under OF III has been the emerging
realization that cooperative development is not just about numbers - numbers of DCS or numbers
of registered members. Members may be registered but that does not mean that they are involved
in the cooperative, or if they are involved, that they understand what is going on and participate
actively. This has emerged as a critical area as the rapid expansion of the dairy cooperative sector
throughout the country has involved a more 'top-down', target-oriented, approach in contrast
with the initial process of growth of dairy cooperatives in Gujarat in response to local needs and
leadership initiative. The Cooperative Development Programme of the NDDB represents a very
important, innovative, committed and (mostly) gender-sensitive effort for membership education
and institution building at both DCS and district union level.
25.   The drawbacks lie in the scale of the task involved and the need to achieve a balance
between more intensive follow-up (which limits coverage but improves effectiveness) and wider
coverage (which may reduce effectiveness). Impact studies of CD programmes have not
contributed as much as they might have to achieving this balance since they tend to be limited to
assessments of short-term effects.
26.   Financial Performance: Financial profitability of the federations/unions has long been a
matter of serious concern even in the previously completed projects and during supervision of the



47                                Appendix A
Page 8 of 15
NDP-II carried out by the Bank. For the purpose of analysis under NDP-II, six states have been
selected, based on a combination of miik procurement levels, investment costs and financing for
sub-projects, as indicated below.
Milk procurement   Investment costs    Release of funds
Vol.in 000's  %    Rs.m         %      by NDDB
Kg. P d                                Rs.m         %
Gujarat       3313         29    3898          36   3843          40
819          7    1201         11    806            8
Karnataka     1098         10      951          9    860            9
1203         11     735          7    602            6
Maharashtra   1908         17      728          7    391            4
848          8     709          6    628            7
Other states   2091        18    2689          24   2472          26
All India    11280        100   10911         100   9604         100
27.   Because of the interdependence of the individual units within the three-tier
structure, financial analysis, in substance though not in legal form, must treat them as one
integrated whole, particularly because of the impact of transfer prices used by the unions
and federations. Viewed collectively in this light, financial position of the integrated
structure would appear better due to returns made by profitable unions and DCSs.
However, as each tier is a profit center, analysis of individual units makes sense from a
performance evaluation angle.
28.   Overall financial operations of individual units of major states assisted under the
project have shown some improvement despite SMP price crash in 1993/94. NDDB
records indicate that there had been wide variations among the assisted units within a state
and between states, with Gujarat and to some extent Maharashtra ranking well above
others. The change in the number of profit/loss making unions and federations and their
associated value of profit or loss is shown below (Rs. million):
State               1992/93          1993/94             1994/95
Unions and    No. Making Profit No. Making  Profit No. Making  Profit
Federations    Net Net  or    Net  Net   or    Net   Net   or
Profit Loss (Loss) Profit Loss  (Loss) Profit Loss  (Loss)
Gujarat        15  --       57  13      2      28   12      3      36
Uttar Pradesh  10  13      (33) 11    12       (49) 12    11    (26)
Karnataka       2   11    (131)   3    10    (151) 10       3    115
Tamil Nadu      5   6    (171)  6       5       (9)  6      5      (3)
Maharashtra     9   2       (7) 10      1       28  10      1    112
Andhra Pradesh 2   10    (168)  2    10    (121)  6         6     (58)



48
Apendix A
Page 9 of 15
29.   As shown above, AP and Karnataka show significant changes in numbers, while all
have improved their profits or reduced their losses by 1994/95.
30.   All the above states except Gujarat and Maharashtra have federations and some
unions with negative net worth, as a result of accumulated past losses, with some
predating the NDP-II. Most of them need to be recapitalized while the rest will have to be
liquidated. The main contributory factors for poor financial performance include
administered prices of milk in metro cities like Bangalore, Calcutta, Madras and New
Delhi; poor management as in Jalgaon or Dharwar, and low capacity utilization due to
competition from the private dairies as in A.P., Punjab and U.P., and over staffing in many
units. Audits pending for periods ranging for some entities from 1 - 7 years have affected
the initiation of corrective measures. As a result of all these factors, federations/unions
have huge overdue loan and working capital dues, amounting to Rs. 1623 m (Rs. 1059 m in
loans and Rs. 564 m in working capital facilities), with Rajasthan accounting for 27%
followed by M.P. (26%), A.P. (19%), Haryana (7%), Punjab (6%) and others (15%).
NDDB has recognized these problems and undertaken a selective rehabilitation
programme in Rajasthan, Mysore union, Jalgaon union and currently Dharwar union. A
huge effort still remains to be made.
31.   Another matter of concern was the low level of equity held by the assisted entities,
although level of equity held by DCSs in their unions has increased markedly in recent
years. The legal agreements stipulated that the equity was to be maintained in real terms.
It did not define the level of equity, either in relation to proposed size of investment by an
entity or the riskiness of such investment. None of the societies visited by the mission
were able to raise share capital voluntarily from members beyond the minimum share of
Rs. 10. As a result, the build-up of equity was slow until later years of the project when
unions made deductions from price differences or bonuses paid to members in order to
beef up capital (e.g., Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra). In other states like TN, share
capital had remained constant until efforts were made to convert some of balances in
reserve funds in DCSs towards the capital of the union.
32.   Profit in dairy cooperatives is largely influenced by the selling price of milk, which
in turn is influenced by state governments in one way or another except in Gujarat.
Analysis of profitability will thus be an assessment of governments' pricing policy.
Performance of the cooperatives should, therefore, also be measured by other indicators of
efficiency such as turnover per employee, assets per employee, procurement per employee,
etc. This will be estimated and presented in the ICR as data are still flowing in.
29.   Efficiency is also seen increasingly in terms of enhanced member awareness,
genuine member participation and institutional strength. This has been a major
contribution of the Cooperative Development Programme which is now seen by many
unions as a critical input for cooperative viability. The integration of CD with P&I in a
few unions is a particularly positive sign, and suggests a move towards a more needs-
based, user-based extension approach.



49                             Apendix A
Page 10 of 15
30.   Equity: Operation Flood has been criticized as a programme which draws on
substantial international and government funding for a development programme which
benefits the better-off, larger farmers. These criticisms tend to be vigorously denied.
However, the debate tends to be more emotional than rigorous. A careful assessment of
the distribution of benefits does need to be made. This is apparently being done by the
NCAER. There may be scope for supplementing this with a careful examination in
different regions of existing data at selected DCS combined with careful cross-checking
and interviews with DCS members.
31.   At the same time, it is apparent that, whilst poorer members may be benefiting
from DCS membership (1) it is larger farmers who have the resources to invest in more
and improved animals and to feed and maintain them very efficiently, (2) marginal farmers
and landless families do not have the same level of resources and usually find it more
difficult to maintain improved animals efficiently, and (3) cooperative leadership tends to
favour higher caste, larger farmers with limited if any effective representation for poorer
members.
32.   Since a dairying cooperative is an economic enterprise, the requirements of growth
and strong leadership may require an initial focus on those with the highest potential.
High growth and the introduction of CB cows in buffalo areas (often - though not always
- most effectively taken up by larger farmers) make the DCS viable and reduce the lean
flush ratio. Once a certain level is achieved, however, is there scope for considering the
needs of poorer farmers. What type of animal can they maintain most effectively? Can
more effective extension be addressed to their conditions? There is scope for concern that
these issues may not receive enough attention in the drive towards increasing milk
production.
33.   Sub-project Appraisals: A review of sub-projects approved under the project
indicates that 50 units had return on investment (ROI) between 12-13%, 26 between 14-
16% and another 23 exceeding 16%. Over 50% of the sub-projects had ROI marginally
above the cut-off rate (12%), requiring intense monitoring for time and cost-overruns,
product prices in order to be able to take timely corrective action. This rapid expansion of
sub-projects would have put even the best managed institution under severe stress. Field
visits indicate that identification of the critical factors has never been a problem.
However, enforcement of corrective measures (e.g., increase in selling prices) continued
to be a stumbling block, given the political realities. The achievement of rates of returns
estimated at appraisal became difficult due to lack of enforcement of either the required
price levels or staff reduction.
34.   Extension of Amul Model to Other States: The Amul model, a successful
experience in milk collection, processing and marketing, controlled and directed by
farmers in Gujarat, was considered feasible for extension into other states which had
different cooperative traditions and culture. The model hinges on autonomous farmer
control at DCS, union and federation levels. The mission finds that many other state
governments do not fully support the concept of farmer control at the union and



50                             Apendix A
Page 11 of 15
federation levels. The requirement of state guarantee for loans taken by unions or
federations has not helped the development of a "hands-off' policy of state governments.
It would, therefore, appear that a successful expansion of Amul principles throughout the
country requires, in the final analysis, a supportive role by governments to the cooperative
movement such as presently enjoyed in Karnataka and Bihar. In the final analysis,
however, new legislation for all states conforming to the 1991 model appears essential.
35.   Embargo on Release of Funds to T.N. The Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu
federation has expressed his dismay at not getting any release of funds for work carried
out by the federation/unions. Despite the embargo, own funds have been utilized to avoid
cost overruns and hence to safeguard the viability of the subprojects. As a result, unions
are faced with increasing difficulties to make milk payments on time. As no embargo was
applied on turnkey projects carried out by NDDB itself, non-release of funds for work
carried by the federation/unions would appear strange, particularly when the state
government has promised to hold elections (for the cooperatives) in 3-4 months. During
mission's discussions with the Minister and the Secretary for Dairy Development, it
became clear that such elections would be held and that milk prices in the Madras city
would be adjusted upwards. Given this situation, it seems prudent to explore funding
sources and terms to reimburse claims from TN and from Maharashtra as a matter of
priority. This will help to minimize payment delays to farmers so that they will not turn to
private collectors.
36.   Monitoring and Evaluation: The data requirements for a project of this complexity
and scale are large and a considerable amount of data is being generated. The data
systems are largely geared to providing information on milk production, marketing and
inputs. In certain aspects, the information generated does not provide a valid base for
monitoring effects or evaluating impact. For example, in two key areas - socio-economic
impact (or income effects for different socio-economic groups) and changes in animal
productivity - there is scope for streamlining and clearly defining the parameters
(members/pourers/non-member pourers - and including data on number and type of
animals as well as members' landholdings on a sample basis) and relating inputs to outputs
(e.g. Al, demonstrations). Greater flexibility is also necessary to reflect changes - for
example the introduction of by-pass cattle feed, and coverage of DCS by government
facilities under the TMDD.
E.  Sustainability
41.   Sustained dairy cooperative development generating adequate farmer incomes and
better milch animal productivity depends on the viability of the three-tier structure. This
means that these three level units should only be established where adequate financial
strength is present and/or the investment cash flow is supported by the assisted entities and
with an adequate return; and where institutional and management aspects are such as to
allow a self-reliant (e.g., Gujarat OF cooperatives) or evolution towards a self-reliant
entity (e.g., Karnataka), whether it is DCS, MPU or federation. It is also essential that the



51                             Apendix A
Page 12 of 15
entities are owned and directed by farmers under some form of democratic decision-
making; autonomy in pricing, investment and marketing decisions; efficiency in production
and processing, assuring better incomes to farmers and the lowest possible price to
consumers; and generating productivity increase of yield per animal per farm. These
conditions prevail in Gujarat, but are present in widely varying degrees in other states.
Given these circumstances, the major challenge for the sustainability of the cooperative
dairy development is to further move the dairy cooperative structure in other states
towards adoption of OF principles as practised in Gujarat. This will ensure provision of
an attractive price to retain and expand pouring members. This in turn depends on the
ability of the unions and federations to pass on the increased costs in the form of
reasonably higher prices to consumers. Except Gujarat, all the other states exercise some
control on liquid milk prices in the metro cities like Bangalore, Calcutta, Hyderabad,
Madras and New Delhi. As the prices in these cities are not likely to be increased in the
immediate future, the options available to the unions and federations are to introduce cost-
reduction measures and expand into high-value product markets. These steps must be
complemented by measures for enhancing animal productivity, training and technical
assistance for cooperatives, improvements in financial management, auditing and cost
accounting, better market promotion and field monitoring and evaluation. Continuing
emphasis is also required on commercial and financial viability of cooperatives. NDDB is
aware of these shortcomings and has initiated programmes to address these issues.
F.  Future Operation
42.   Following discussions with NDDB on future operations/action plan concerning
completion of all on-going sub-projects and also to maximize net benefits, NDDB has
indicated that it would: (a) help completion of all unfinished sub-projects by June 1997,
and make available adequate funds for this purpose on a full loan basis at an annual
interest rate of 14-15%; (b) continue the cooperative development programme covering
selected DCSs; (c) intensify its efforts to rehabilitate selected federations and M:PUs on
the lines adopted in Mysore union (now extended to Dharwar union) or in Jalgaon union;
and (d) encourage cooperatives to upgrade their productivity enhancement programmes.
While Tamil Nadu federation and unions have utilized their own funds due to embargo on
funds release by NDDB, Maharashtra has on-going projects due to their late start-up.
There is reluctance to accept full funds on loan basis at 14-15% p.a. The subject is under
discussion between the concerned states and NDDB.



52                             Apendix A
Page 13 of 15
G. Lessons Learned
1)    The main lessons learned during project implementation are as follows:
(a)          Pre-project experience demonstrated that in the project design, the
Amul model should have required adaptation in response to political
realities in each state.
(b)          There has been little difficulty in identifying problems and
constraints in the operation of the dairy cooperative sector. However,
enforcement of corrective measures as for example realistic selling prices
or staff levels has on many occasions escaped solution.
(c)          Although private competition has adversely affected cooperative
milk procurement in the early years after delicensing, it has helped to raise
cooperatives out of their complacency and acted as a spur to efficiency in
many cases, forcing them to contract out some of their activities to the
private sector like milk transport, packing and maintenance of factory
gardens. It is essential that the MNMPO is effectively implemented to
ensure that malpractices which have been identified in some private sector
plants are not allowed to undermine the quality image that is being built up
by the cooperative sector.
(d)          Given the politically difficult task of reducing excessive staffing
levels in federations/union, a more feasible option would be a combination
of diversification into high-value products to absorb personnel costs and
increased processing efficiency. Alternatively, redundancy package should
be considered.
(e)          Market promotion must be expanded to include cattle feed along
with milk and milk products.
(f)          Dairy Cooperatives must continue market expansion to raise
coverage of farmers, market penetration to reach remote villages and
market diversification to ensure better profitability.
(g)          Product quality is the first defense against competition, whether it is
in cattle feed or milk and milk products, and it starts at milk production on
farm.
(h)          Integrated Business Plan is an innovative management control
technique in dairy cooperative management, pioneered by NDDB in



Appendix A
Page 14 of 15
MIysore union, involving real participation of staff and management as
opposed to rigid centralized budgetary control.
(i)          Technical, management and financial problems impeding project
implementation were consistently identified during supervision of the
project. In retrospect, the inclusion of a M&E specialist on some of the
earlier missions and enforcement of the reporting requirements might have
forced the issue of poor financial performance to the forefront of NDDB's
attention.
(j)          In projects such as NDP-II, a massive and complex programme in
states which have their own priorities and commitments and where the
quality of management is perceived to be a principal risk, special attention
should have been devoted to examining the existing situation and making
detailed investigation about how and if existing impediments can be
overcome.
(k)          Market studies and product quality promotion have made a
significant impact on liquid milk sales. All sectors of the industry
responded to the challenge. Production enhancement campaigns increased
production of quality milk and this was efficiently processed and
distributed in the plants visited.
(1)          Monitoring performance improved operating efficiency.
Standardization of technology and approach facilitated the setting of
targets for efficiency in each step in the processing of milk and animal
feed, and NDDB circulated the average performance to each participating
plant on a monthly basis. This had a considerable impact on the operating
efficiency of plants and in some cases made the difference between making
a profit or a loss. It is planned to increase the number of dairy plants
participating in the quality assurance program. Both activities highlight
the importance of the T. A. component of the programme which will be
continued under a trust fund between the NDDB and FAO from NDDBs
own funds.
(m)          Most of the plants visited made heavy demands on NDDB for
technical assistance in all aspects of the dairy sector. It is essential that the
industry has the support of such a body in the future if it is to develop
fully sustainable operations. There was general agreement that the
industry would meet some of the costs directly. However, the
Government must make a contribution to the agency which would be
responsible for maintaining quality standards for technically guiding the
industry, and for ensuring that good manufacturing practices are applied
throughout the dairy industry.



Appendix A
Page 15 of 15
H. Follow-up
43)   The mission will return to Rome and prepare the relevant parts of the ICR in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines, for transmittal to the Bank by mid-July, 1996.
NDDB is requested to prepare its own evaluation and send it to the World Bank office in
New Delhi by about the same date.
June 6, 1996



55
Appendix B
Page 1 of3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
(Cr.1859-IN/Ln.2893-IN)
APPENDIX B
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
A. Introduction
1.                This appendix presents the main assumptions and results of the financial
analysis of selected sub-projects and the economic analysis of the project as a whole.   All
calculations were done in 1996 prices.
2.                At appraisal, the financial and economic analysis were undertaken in 1987
constant prices. For the financial analysis, the five representative models were prepared of typical
plant investments - a new MPU dairy plant, an existing city dairy plant, Gandhinagar feeder
balancing dairy plant and a cattle feed plant - and an average DCS. The economic analysis was
carried out for the project as a whole. The 1987 constant prices of outputs and inputs were used
in both the financial and economic analysis. For traded commodities (SMP/butter), economic
prices were based on import parity prices.
3.                The financial analysis undertaken in the ICR  followed the appraisal
methodology. Four models instead of five were reassessed. The reduction is because of the
convergence of product mix between an MPU dairy plant and city dairy, suggesting validity of a
combined analysis.
4.                The analysis has been based on information provided by the participating
units, NDDB and mission field visits.
B. Financial Analysis
5.                Tables 1-4 show analysis of an average DCS, MPU dairy plant, Gandhinagar
plant and a cattle feed plant. These are summarized as follows:
DCS model: Table 1 shows a model for an average DCS, with a daily
procurement of 17,000 litres in 1991/92, increasing to 135,000 litres in



56
Appendix B
Page 2 of 3
DCS model: Table I shows a model for an average DCS, with a daily
procurement of 17,000 litres in 1991/92, increasing to 135,000 litres in
1995/96. It receives a grant of Rs5,000 to meet initial capital expenditure
and initial losses in Years I & 2.  Thereafter, its operations become
profitable, yielding a FRR of 17%, compared to the appraisal estimate of
15%.
MPU dairy model: Table 2 shows 100,000 Lpd capacity plant with
investment expenditure of Rs362.3 million spread over 8 years (1987/88 to
1994/95) for expanded capacity. The plant procures and transports milk
from DCSs and chilling centres, and undertakes processing and marketing of
milk and milk products. The FRR is 30%, compared to the appraisal
estimate of 20-28%.
Gandhinagar plant: The plant was planned at Gandhinagar with a
capacity of 400,000 Lpd for liquid milk and 600,000 Lpd for powder
production and butter oil. The investment costs incurred between 1992 and
1997 amounted to Rsl,078.5 million as shown in Table 3. The plant is
currently operating at 69% o for liquid milk but is expected to reach at least
75% during the flush season. The plant is able to show profit from the
second operating year, 1997, and the FRR is estimated at 12%, compared to
18% projected at appraisal.  The main reason for the lower FRR is the
insufficient utilization of capacity in relation to the capital cost.
Cattle feed plant: Table 4 shows the operations of a cattle feed plant
expanded under the project. The investment cost incurred for expansion
amounted to Rs28. I million. The FRR is 9%, compared to 16% estimated at
appraisal. The lower FRR at completion is largely due to the investors'
policy of operating the unit on a no-profit no-loss basis.
C. Economic Analysis
6.                Re-estimation of ERR followed essentially the method adopted at appraisal
and was based on the following assumptions.
(a)       actual and projected cost and procurement data were used for project
years 20 - 1986/87 to 2006/2007;
(b)       all values were expressed in 1996 constant price terms,



57
Appendix B
Page 3 of 3
(c)       average milk prices increased from  RsIO.26/kg  at farmgate to
Rs13.2 1/kg at urban retail (urban retail price based on world market price as
in Table 5);
(d)       same assumptions of a 1.5% pa. growth in productivity due to the
project has been used.  The resultant value of incremental farmgate
production (at Rs6.50/litre) has been computed;
(e)       allowances for improved efficiency at farm-level or in processing and
marketing have not been included;
(f)       another benefit - competitive pressure on the sometimes excessive
marketing margins of the informal vendors - is ignored in the analysis;
(g)       the value of manure has also not been included;
(h)       costs and benefits were computed over 20 years; and
(i)       domestic costs were converted to border prices using a standard
conversion factor of 0.9. All costs were expressed in 1996 prices using WPI
as indicated in Table 6.
7.                On the basis of the above assumptions, the ERR for the project is re-
estimated at 21%, 6% lower than the appraisal estimate, mainly due to lower than anticipated
incremental milk procurement (see Table 9) not fully offset by the higher economic price used for
milk.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.                Sensitivity analysis. The three factors which are expected to influence the
ERR are the net value added through rural-urban transfer, the inability of the SFs/MPUs to
operate and manage processing plants as designed and, to a lesser extent, the assumed
productivity growth. If the net value added is reduced by 20%, the ERR falls to 19%. Poor
operation and management would lower the ERR to 5%, assuming that the ineffective operation
of SFs/ MPUs would depress project benefits by 20%. The decline in value of incremental
production by 20% would lower ERR to 9%. Thus, both management and incremental value of
production have a critical influence on the ERR.



58
Appendix C
Page 1 of 8
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL DAIRY PROTECT
(Cr.1859-IN/Ln.2893-IN)
APPENDIX C
NDDB'S ROLE AND PERFORMANCE
Introduction
1.                The purpose of this appendix is to assess the efficiency of NDDB as a
channel for Bank funds in terms of its success in promoting sound development in the livestock
sector in India. This assessment would normally require an examination of several factors
including the suitability of the quality of management and the level of professional skills,
appropriateness of resource allocation criteria and autonomy allowed to the institution in its
decision-making processes, adherence to professional standards in the areas of investment
administration, procurement, disbursement, collateral requirements, level of supervision of its
portfolio and effective action to deal with problem sub-projects, maintenance of financial
standards that allow the Board to present a strong financial standing towards lenders, its
observance of policies on budgeting, debt and liquidity management, capital structure and
diversification of risk that reflects its role as a financial intermediary. The NDDB has wide
experience and the ICR mission had limited resources for an in-depth evaluation. For both these
reasons, attention was focused only on four key areas encompassing the livestock industry
environment within which NDDB operates, the objectives and policies of NDDB, the relevance of
its operating procedures to the successful fulfilment of these objectives, and its overall financial
management.
Livestock Industry Environment
2.                Livestock accounts for about 32% of the total value of agricultural output.
The livestock output since 1985 has been increasing by 6% a year in real terms, largely as a result
of growth in the dairy and poultry subsectors. Revenues from export of live animals and livestock
products grew even faster, at 13% a year in real terms. Per capita consumption of milk has
increased from 165 gm/day in 1987 to 194 gm/day in 1996. With continued economic growth



59
Appendix C
Page 2 of 8
and increasing per capita incomes, demand for livestock products especially dairy and poultry
should expand substantially in the next few years.
3.                Continued growth in the livestock sector would have a significant impact in
generating employment and in reducing rural poverty. Over 74% of the population live in rural
areas and of these, about 73% of rural households own livestock. Small and marginal farmers
account for 75% of these households, raising 56% of the bovine (cattle and buffalo). Rural
households rely on livestock for nutrition and for income, the latter accounting for 15-40% of
total farm household incomes. Poor rural consumers spend up to 15% of their budget on animal
products (dairy, meat, eggs and fish) and poor urban consumers up to 19%.
4.                The preliminary findings of the NCAER study (1996) show that in the
operation flood villages, 78% of households own milch animals and 63% of the households are
members of the DCS. The socio-economically backward groups - SC, ST and other backward
classes) dominate the DCS, accounting for over 58% of the membership, suggesting the
considerable impact of the operation flood programme on the poor and disadvantaged classes.
The study also noted that an estimated daily gross revenue of about Rs28 (or net RsI2) per
household, equivalent to 21% of the household annual income, provides a substantial return to
their use of family labour and crop residues, more so in the case of DCS members.
5.                The last two decades have seen structural changes in the milch animal
population of the country with stagnation of the overall population, more crossbred and improved
animals replacing the traditional herd. This has primarily been due to the changes that have taken
place in milk marketing and cooperative involvement in the rural sector.
6.                Public expenditure at current prices in the dairy sector increased from
Rs77.8 million in the First Five-year Plan to Rs6,034.1 million the Seventh Five-year Plan. There
was a gradual increase in the allocation to the animal husbandry and dairying sector from the First
Five-year Plan to the Third Five-year Plan and thereafter it declined except in the Sixth Five-year
Plan. The expenditure on dairying is almost 50% of expenditure on animal husbandry and
dairying since the Sixth Five-year Plan. Despite its growing importance, the plan allocation seems
disproportional with its output and future potential.
7.                The data on rated capacities and actual utilization in the project-supported
dairies showed considerable inter-state and intra-state variation. As in most other comparisons,
Gujarat and Maharashtra are doing relatively better. With few exceptions, the units in Andhra
Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are operating well below capacity. Capacity utilization of some
units operating above rated capacity relates mainly to liquid milk processing. Milk drying and
butter-making activities have been designed to cope with the surplus milk at peak supply. The
capacity utilization in these units is therefore generally a much lower and variable.



60
Appendix C
Page 3 of 8
8.                Delicensing the dairy industry in 1991 was a major step towards
liberalization and increased efficiency in the dairy sector. This trend was reversed in 1992 when
the MMPO was issued. However, the weak implementation of the Order in many states has still
left the dairy sector open to competition. The livestock sector review carried out by the Bank in
1995 lists the pressing issues as follows:
Creating a level playing field for all market participants in both output
(dairy and meat) and input markets (feed and veterinary services). This will
require liberalizing dairy and feed marketing and promoting private
participation in the delivery of animal health and breeding services;
Phasing out remaining trade restrictions on feed and livestock products,
while paying close attention to progress made in the restructuring of the
domestic processing industry;
Integrating livestock development within a framework of environmental
conservation. This goal will be best achieved by increasing the participation
of local institutions in addressing degradation problems in common property
resource areas.
NDDB's Objectives and Policies
9.                Objectives. NDDB is a corporate body constituted under the National
Dairy Development Board Act 1987. It is managed by an eight-member Board - 4 including
Chairman and Managing Director from NDDB, 2 from cooperatives (one each from oil and milk
federation), I expert in management/dairying and 1 from the government. The Board is organized
into groups by function with five reporting directly to the Chairman (Corporate Finance, Internal
Audit, Business Development, Public Relations, and Commodity Marketing and International
Trading), and the remaining seven reporting through the Managing Director. The Board has also
entities owned by it as subsidiaries (Hindustan Packaging Co. Ltd., Indian Dairy Machinery Co.
Ltd., Bhavnagar Vegetable Products Ltd., Mother Dairy, Delhi and Indian Immunologicals) and
units managed by it (Mother Dairy, Calcutta, Sabaramati Ashram, Gaushala and Bhavnagar
Vegetable Products Unit). The Board is responsible to the Central Government.
10.              The objectives of NDDB which reflect its multiple functions, include
promotion, development and financing of autonomous, self-reliant, producer-owned and
controlled cooperative organizations.
11.              Policies.  In support of Operation Flood III, NDDB coordinated three
processes in planning, funding and implementation. The three processes cover state plans for
overall planning of dairy activities, sub-project appraisal, and monitoring and supervision during



61
Appendix C
Page 4 of 8
implementation. State plans are prepared by federations with assistance from NDDB. These
plans identify development needs, taking into consideration the existing dairy processing capacity,
marketing prospects, milk availability, productivity enhancement measures and potential
investment for further development in all these areas. These plans are reviewed and updated on
an annual basis instead of five-yearly intervals prevailing prior to NDP-II. Once these plans are
approved by state governments and NDDB, they become the 'base' for preparation and
implementation of investments.
12.               The appraisal of sub-projects is carried out by NDDB, applying the
following criteria:
Financial: the proposed investment is financially viable, able to earn at
least an FRR of 12%;
C ommercial: this involves an analysis of market potential for fresh milk
and proposed milk products, adequacy of prices and prospects for expansion
of milk production;
Production  enhancement:   detailed  proposals for productivity
enhancement must be prepared including a practical plan for dovetailing of
cooperative and state services, and facilities in veterinary, genetic upgrading,
feed, fodder and animal husbandry extension.
Engineering:    construction  and  equipment specifications,  and
availability of land and utilities must be ensured; and
Managerial and organizations: there should be assurance of trained
staff and/or a training programme, satisfactory internal control systems
including accounting and auditing, and an adequate MIS.
It is apparent that the scope of these policies gives wide discretion to NDBB in approving
financial assistance. Consequently, the contribution of NDDB to livestock industry development,
which furthers national economic growth, depends critically on the validity of overall planning as
embodied in state plans, and the relevance of NDDB's detailed screening procedures.
13.               Development role. The promotion aspects of NDDB's lending activity
involving 'directed credit' to processing makes the essential difference as to its functions as a real
catalyst of development and not merely a conduit through which lending resources pass. NDDB
in this way has an impact on tangible factors such as proper management practices, and
appropriate levels of technology.  The continued use of significant proportions of scarce



62
Appendix C
Page 5 of 8
development resources each year calls for a more critical analysis of NDDB's operations and, in
particular, of the allocation of resources at its disposal.
Operational Procedures
14.                Total staff of NDDB amounts to 1,1 19 of which over 70% have degree or
post-graduate level qualifications. There is no reason to doubt the professional competence of the
staff to carry out the tasks assigned to them.
15.                The operational procedures ensure a thorough managerial, financial and
technical assessment of the sub-project and reflect NDDB's emphasis on these aspects. While all
criteria have been followed thoroughly, financial appraisal has used the return on investment
(ROI) methodology (instead of the FRR method) which relates profit to capital employed.
Firstly, the term 'capital' and 'profit' are capable of many interpretations and can be expressed at
various levels according to purpose of use.
Concept of Capital Employed            Corresponding Concept of Profit
1.  Share capital + reserves                Profit after interest (short-term and
long-term)
2.  Share capital + reserves + long-term    Profit after short-term interest
borrowings
Share capital + reserves + long-term   Profit before interest (short-term and
borrowings + short-term finance        long-term)
(current liability)
4.  Total or gross assets                   Profit before interest (short-term and
long-term)
5.  Operating assets + external investment    Operating profit + investment income
6.  Operating assets                        Operating profit
As shown above, the concept of ROI is ambiguous. There exist many variations with little
general agreement, on how capital employed should be calculated or how profits should be
defined.
16.                Generally, profit before tax is preferred because calculations using profit
after tax figures may show trends due simply to changes in the rates of taxation. It may also be
noted that the test of efficiency should be based on the gross assets at the disposal of the



63
Appendix C
Page 6 of 8
enterprise irrespective of the method used to finance them. Accordingly, the 'return' means net
profit before tax, and capital employed is synonymous with assets employed, and in ratio
calculation the usual average would be that of capital employed at successive year ends. But
problems of seasonality, new capital introduced or other factors may necessitate taking the
average from a greater number of periods within a year. The purpose of obtaining finance in
various forms (share capital, long-term loans, short-term finance) is to acquire assets and use
them to earn profits.
17.               Secondly, the method also ignores the residual value of assets like land and
buildings. Finally, the most important defect is that it fails to recognize the phasing of costs and
revenue (time value of money) and concentrates on financial flows in accounting terms rather than
cash flows.
18.               While sub-projects may be rejected for lack of financial viability irrespective
of the method applied, they are never turned down because analysis yields insufficient economic
rate of return. In fact NDDB has not introduced ERR calculations in their evaluation of sub-
projects, even major ones. In this, NDDB's procedures lag behind those of the Industrial Credit
and Investment Corporation of India.
19.               It is not axiomatic that the plans to establish or expand the capacity of a
particular plant are right in terms of national economic advantage. A financial analysis does not
make sure of a sub-project's economic value. Indeed, as pointed out in the 'Livestock Sector
Review', protected environment for the dairy sector has led to the establishment of high cost yet
profitable investments which the economy would have been better without (for example, liquid
milk costs about Rs8.30/litre in Sabarkantha, Gujarat, compared to Rs72.50/kg for SMP).
Financial analysis is no substitute for consistent economic appraisal in selecting sub-projects in
terms of national advantage.
20.               Thus, the absence of any economic evaluation techniques in NDDB's
operational procedures is a serious deficiency. But it might equally be regarded as a weakness in
screening criteria.
21.               These findings concerning the effects of financial operations of NDDB do
not appear encouraging for further promotion of NDDB's financing activities. However, this is
not the real policy implication.  The main policy implication is to find ways of improving the
operations of NDDB and not to discontinue it.
22.               The Board seems to have concentrated its investment in Gujarat (36%)
followed by Uttar Pradesh (11%) and Karnataka (9%), thereby over-exposing to financial risks in
a state. About one-third of NDDB's investment has been in Gujarat state, a reflection of potential
with a well-developed industrial base and availability of managerial talent.  There is no strong



64
Appendix C
Page 7 of 8
general evidence to suggest that the Board's investments have been unwise in terms of overall
development of the dairy sector.
23.               NDDB has also promoted exports of dairy products. But there could be
scope for more positive activities by NDDB to enhance exports. Such activities might include
studies of export markets, labour-intensive technology, production possibilities suited to the
backward area and the role of financial incentives in all these fields.
24.               NDDB has taken imaginative steps in setting up training centres, applied
research in animal genetics and breeding, animal nutrition and feed technology, and animal
diseases.
25.               The above review  of operational procedures suggests that the major
deficiencies are unwarranted reliance on the state plans and consequently no use of ERR in the
decision-making process, and inadequate attention to monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects.
Otherwise, technical, financial (changed to FRR since 1993) and managerial procedures are
thorough but as is confirmed by financial analysis, these procedures are not enough to prevent
investing federations/incomes from getting into difficulties.
Overall Financial Management
26.               Generally, overall financial management seems sound.  NDDB's surplus
(excess of income over expenses) has risen from Rs 150 million in FY87 to Rs466 million in FY95,
while total assets have increased from Rs569 million in FY87 to Rs27,771 million in FY95. Its
equity has jumped from Rsl96 million to RsI4,116 million over the same period. The accounts
have been audited by a private auditing firm from year to year without qualification. NDDB's
basic financial position is sound. However, its difficulties are reflected in its outstanding loan
portfolio which is affected by overdues. Arrears of interest and principal are equivalent to 185%
of NDDB's surplus. The defaults are not yet reflected in its income and expenditure account,
there being a reasonable chance that eventual payment will be made for most of them as they are
backed by guarantees from state governments. Nonetheless, some of the defaults are likely to
materialize as bad debts and will make it difficult to raise current surplus levels in the near future.
This should not affect NDDB's lending operations unless defaults continued to grow sharply. The
control of arrears by NDDB's rehabilitation programme makes this unlikely.
Conclusion
27                NDDB's contribution to development of the Indian dairy sector over the past
decade has been substantial in promoting, appraising, financing and guiding federations/ unions
and their new processing plants.  India's protected environment, her shortage of capital,
abundance of under-employed labour and her need for exports are cause for reviewing the way



65
Appendix C
Page 8 of 8
that sub-projects are chosen and steered. This is recognized by the Board which is already taking
steps in this direction. There is a need for a systematic appraisal of the economic worth of
investments so that those where the total costs exceed total benefits to the Indian society can be
identified and rejected.



66
Appendix D
Page 1 of 11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NA TIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
(Credit 1859/Loan 2893-IN)
NDDB'S EVALUATION REPORT
1.0 Project Objectives, Design, etc.
1.1   India is a predominantly agrarian country. Unlike those developed countries where
milk production is an intensive activity carried out by commercial farmers using modern
technology, Indian dairying is traditionally integrated with agricultural production and is
largely dependent on crop by-products and surplus labour. The major portion of India's
milk is produced by millions of geographically scattered small and marginal farmers and
landless labourers. The Operation Flood programme was strategically planned to involve
massive numbers of producers in the dairy development through their own democratically-
controlled cooperatives.
1.2   Operational Flood was designed as an integrated dairy development programme
based on the principles and practices that initially proved successful in Kaira District, then
were replicated in other parts of Gujarat. The NDP-I1 programme was formulated to
support Operation Flood-III and included the following objectives:
i)    To bring more milk producers within the ambit of dairy coopertives.
ii)    To intensify urban milk marketing, placing greater emphasis on liquid milk and
fresh milk-products.
iii)  to develop financially-viable cooperative unions and federations managed by
elected boards.
iv)   To facilitate the transfer of milk processing and related infrastructure to the
unions.
v)    To ensure optimal use of government's technical infrastructure in cooperative
milksheds, so as to maximise benefit to rural milk producers. (This was to be
achieved through the Technology Mission for Dairy Development.)
1.3   Operational Flood III was financed by World Bank credit NDP-II (US$ 365
million), monetisation of EC food aid (60,000 mt of milk powder and 10,000 mt of
butter/butter oil), EC cash assistance of ECU 5 million and NDDB's internal resources.



67
Appendix D
Page 2 of 11
The project outlay was revised from Rs.9,150 to Rs. 13,031 million to compensate for
devaluation of the Indian Rupee. NDP-II was to be implemented between April, 1987 and
December, 1994. The project was initially extended by the World Bank for a period of
one year and then for a further four months through April 30, 1996.
2. Implementation, operation experience and borrower's own performance
Project Achievements
2.1   Significant Operation Flood achievements include organising more than 71,800
dairy cooperative societies in 170 milksheds with a membership of some 9.2 million
farmers, exceeding the SAR targets. During the flush season of 1995-96, these
cooperatives procured 13.4 million kilograms of milk per day while marketing over 10.0
million litres in more than 700 cities and towns. By 1995, India's per capita availability of
milk had increased to 194 grams/day as compared to 165 grams/day in 1987.
2.2   The programme has also achieved considerable success in relation to its qualitative
objectives: many unions and federations have adopted Operation Flood principles;
modern tehcnology in animal breeding and feeding has been adopted by significant
numbers of farmers; modern milk processing and marketing facilities have been created.
Many SAR targets have been achieved, while some have been exceeded. Milk
procurement has, however, fallen short of targets. Nonetheless, the conditions for long-
term growth in procurement have been created: an assured market and remunerative
producer prices for raw milk; technical inputs services including Al, balanced cattle
feed/by-pass protein feed, urea-enriched straw, better fodder varieties, emergency
veterinary health services have all contributed to sustained increases in milk production.
Additionally, three state-of-the art dairies designed to produce quality products for both
the domestic and export markets are near completion.
2.3    Besides creating urban employment in dairy plants, marketing, transport and
distribution, Operation Flood-III is India's largest and only sustainable rural employment
programme. About 75 percent of dairy cooperative members are landless, or marginal and
small farmers. These members pour more than 60 percent of the milk procured by
cooperatives. About Rs.30,000 million is paid annually to milk producers by village
societies. For landless labourers, marginal and small farmers, this income provides their
only regular cash flow, transforming dairying into a core economic activity. In much of
India, income from dairy cooperatives has contributed to the welfare of women from
labouring and small farm families.
2.4   The overall financial performance of assisted unions and federations is
encouraging. In aggegate, the overall position shows a surplus. There has been a distinct
trend of improved performance with 1993's aggregate loss of Rs.507 million declining to
Rs.207 million in 1994 and then becoming a surplus of Rs.401 million in 1995.



68
Appendix D
Page 3 of 11
2.5   The project uniquely employed food aid as an investment, using the proceeds of
monetisation to finance a milk production, procurement, processing and marketing
infrastructure. Pricing of donated commodities in line with domestic milk ensured that
domestic prices were not depressed and that rather than increased dependency on imports,
a foundation was built for self-reliance.
2.6   Operation Flood sustained its commitment to development through cooperatives
owned and controlled by producers. Although opposed by a formidable political and
bureaucratic coalition, structures have been created which enable farmers to control the
resources that they create. These same structures have achieved a substantial market
share, forcing the private trade to compete for the farmers' milk. The local-district-state-
national linkages that are now in place have established the potential for the rural poor to
have a voice in the national democratic process.
Borrower's Performance
2.7   NDDB's mandate, incorporated in the Act of Parliament that constituted the Dairy
Board, is to promote, develop and finance autonomous, self-reliant, producer-owned and
controlled cooperative organisations. In pursuing its mission, the NDDB has developed a
broad-ranging expertise in cooperative institutional development, production
enhancement, creation of procurement systems and networks, project consultancy and
management, human resource development, applied research and development. Where
there have been gaps in the supporting infrastructure, the NDDB has stepped in to fill
them, whether in dairy equipment manufacture, production of laminated paper for asceptic
packaging, or creation of a modern facility for manufacture of immunologicals. The
Anand Pattern approach that forms the basis of Operation Flood has been adapted and
applied to oilseeds, fruits and vegetables, tree growing and salt. An Institution of National
importance, NDDB has comitted itself to creating institutions of excellence.
2.8   NDDB has balanced its roles of a financing institution and a development agency.
Each sub-project was appraised against criteria established in consultation with the World
Bank. It is a matter of pride that both World Bank and EEC reviews commend NDDB's
appraisal mechanism as meeting high standards.
2.9   In its role as a financing institution, NDDB has ensured that the majority of
borrowers' audited annual accounts are submitted on a timely basis. To strengthen the
future financial base of federations and unions, NDDB has successfully encouraged
substantial increases in their equity base despite tax laws that inhibit growth of capital.
2.10  As the promotional and developmental stages of Operation Flood have phased
down, and as the competitive environment has heated up, NDDB's extensive project
monitoring systems have been phased into a system that is evolving timely, authentic and
consistent multi-level reporting linked to ERNET and, through ERNET, to the Internet.
Milk production estimation and projection systems are being developed along with market
research methods. Project-oriented MIS systems are being adapted to provide union and



69
Appendix D
Page 4 of 11
federation management with economic data as well as comparative financial and
performance analysis for their cooperative.
2.11  As unions face increased competition, they have identified their own strategic plans
and institutional development priorities. NDDB has created and equipped multi-
disciplinary teams to work with these cooperatives as they build their own capacities.
Major Constraints to be addressed to promote the future growth of cooperatives
Some of the major operational constraints experienced during programme implementation
are described below. The steps to overcome these are primarily the responsibility of the
respective state governments, state implementing agencies, the government of India and its
concerned agencies.
i. Burden of inherited liabilities
Some state governments, while passing on infrastructure to the dairy cooperatives, have
also transferred the entire contingent of staff as well as accumulated losses. As many of
these units were already over-staffed, had massive debt and a negative net worth, the
cooperatives were unable to sustain themselves under this inherited burden.
ii. Adoption of Anand Pattern bye-laws
The farmers' organisations promoted during Operation Flood were intended to be
patterned on the Anand Model. One of the important conditions for efficient functioning
of these cooperatives was the adoption of bye-laws that embodied the principles central to
the Anand Pattern. In some cases, the adoption of appropriate bye-laws necessitated the
amendment of provisions of the state's cooperative law as well. Although, most state
governments and implementing agencies had agreed to adopt such bye-laws, some states
and union territories failed to fulfill this requirement.
iii. Freedom to decide pricing policies
The basic agreement entered between the NDDB and the state governments outlines the
broad framework for Operation Flood implementation. Through these agreements, the
state governments have agreed to provide cooperative institutions with the freedom to
decide their policies with regard to purchase and sale price of milk and milk products. It
has taken years to persuade most state governments to actually honour this agreement.
Even now, some federations and unions do not enjoy this essential freedom.
iv. Election to boards and management committees
In a number of states, elections of farmer representatives to union and federation boards of
directors are not being held regularly. In some cases, elected boards have been replaced
by nominated boards or by administrators.



70
Appendix D
Page 5 of 11
v. Expansion of private dairy/agency operations in Operation Flood areas
Government commitments not to encourage private agencies to set up dairy and cattle
feed plants in the operational area of Operation Flood have been honoured in the breach in
many states. This has negatively affected the performance of cooperatives which are
expected to provide services to farmers while their competitors are not so obligated.
vi. Rigidity in Bank procurement policies
The procurement procedures of the World Bank have been extremely rigid particularly in
respect to eligibility criteria and price negotiations. Examples are:
a)    It was stipulated that all civil works contracts, irrespective of the value
should be ordered against LCBs. Even for a large number of chilling
centres for which the value of civil work was small, invitation of bids
had to be done through publication of costly newspaper advertisements.
Apart from such unnecessary expenditure, strict eligibility criteria often
led to poor response from the bidders. On occasions, bids had to be
invited more than once which resulted in delay in the execution.
b)    In the case of equipment, most supply contracts had to go to a limited
number of suppliers in view of the strict eligibility criteria. As a result,
many of these suppliers were loaded with work beyond their capacities
and consequently the execution of the contracts was delayed.
c)    There was a strict bar on price negotiation with the bidders. The bidders
were aware of this restriction and took full advantage of the situation.
Moreover, while the NDDB or the user unions were not permitted to
negotiate the price, there was no such bar on the suppliers while sub-
contracting a part of their jobs to other agencies. There is evidence that,
on securing the orders, the successful bidders had carried out negotiations
with their sub-contractors and managed to get considerable discount on
prices. Therefore the benefit had ultimately gone to the main bidder only.
d)    A considerable reduction in the investment on the plans and machinery
could have been achieved had some flexibility been permitted in terms
of eligibility criteria and price negotiation.
vii. EEC cooperation
Until 1992, EC food aid was received as per the protocol between the Government of
India and the Community. However, in 1993, when India exported dairy products valued
at US$3.35 million (.03 percent of India's milk production), the EEC reacted by rejecting
India's request for the balance of the approved food aid allocation on the grounds that,
"India has been a successful net exporter of milk during the course of last year ...



71                             Appendix D
Page 6 of 11
shortages of this magnitude should be balanced primarily through commercial imports.
The fact that a deficit has been reported does not argue for the automatic allocation of
food aid." The EEC's failure to honour its commitment, along with delay in receipt of
commercial imports, contributed to an acute shortage of SNF and fat, seriously affecting
OF liquid milk marketing activities.
3.0 Strategies for future development and policy recommendations
3. 1 Strategy
There has been a steady growth in the dairy sector during the last 25 years and such
growth stimuli need to be further supported. The growth has not only increased the
availability of milk in both rural and urban households, it has been a major source of rural
employment and income, has ended substantial imports of dairy commodities and, at least
as per the reports of a number of responsible social scientists, has also contributed to a
variety of indirect benefits in different areas of rural life. The Operation Flood approach
to growth, which seeks to place responsibility for dairy development in the hands of those
who actually raise the nation's dairy animals, is not incidental to the success that the
programme has achieved. It is in this context that the continuation of the strategy of
cooperative dairying assumes importance. It is a strategy that needs to be strengthened by
adopting the following policies:
i.    It is essential to more effectively integrate state government animal
husbandry and dairying programmes with poverty alleviation programmes
(e.g. the Integrated Rural Development Programme); with the research
programmes of ICAR institutes, agriculture universities and the NDDB,
and with Operation Flood. This can be best achieved through the
Technology Mission for Dairy Development.
ii.    Managerial intervention through a team concept: As cooperative unions
face increased competition, it is essential that their competitive capacities
be strengthened in a coherent and well-planned manner. Central to this
is the role of the union board as a planning and policy body. Once a union
board has charted its future, actual implemention will require systematic
strengthening of organisational capacities. To respond, NDDB has
constitituted multi-disciplinary teams that will work with union staff in
this effort.
iii.    The Cooperative Development Programme, vital to the strengthening of
member loyalty and participation, must be continued with greater vigour
and sharper focus.
iv.    Marketing efforts, combining an intensified push to build liquid milk
markets with product diversification, should increase returns to the
producer while offering a wider choice to the urban consumers in terms



72
Appendix D
Page 7 of 11
of products, packaging and distribution of milk and milk products.
v.    Priority must be given to strategies to reduce the costs of milk
collection, processing and transportation by evolving cost-effective
and energy-efficient handling, transport and processing systems. These
measures should enhance the cost competitive position of cooperatives.
vi.   Studies are under way to identify both specific and general measures
to improve the financial performance of unions and federations.
vii.   Simplified management and financial systems will help strengthen
farmer ownership and control.
viii.  The ongoing lab-to-farmer linkage should be strengthened by introducing
cost-effective and efficient production enhancement methods to reduce the
costs of milk production inputs and methods while increasing productivity
per unit of farmer investment.
ix.    Substantial enhance of rural and urban milk market intelligence is needed to
better understand utilisation patterns for milk in villages; to estimate and
project the marketable surplus; to analyse the milk and milk products
markets; and to assess cooperative and competitor strengths and
weaknesses.
3.2 Recommendations
i.    Cooperative law and regulation remain major obstacles to the success
of cooperatives. The laws in force routinely result in the questioning
of normal business practices and procedures, cause instability in the
elected leadership, and result in blurred accountability of manager to
board and board to members. A major step in rectivying this situation
would be taken were the Government of India to: a) amend the Multi-
state Cooperative Societies Act along the lines recommended by the
Chaudhary Brahm Perkash Committee; and b) include a Chapter
enabling registration of Cooperative Companies through amendment of
the Company Act. Both steps will help to ensure the autonomy of dairy
cooperatives.
ii.    The Mutually-Aided Cooperative Societies Act enacted by the Andhra
Pradesh Legislature in 1995 is an example of the type of legislation that
can restore cooperatives to member ownership and control.
iii.   Recognising that the financial problems faced by some unions are largely
due to over-staffing and the accumulated debt of state government



73
Appendix D
Page 8 of 11
agencies that were transferred to the unions, it is important to approve
a rehabilitation programme, including financial support from the
Government of India and the state governments, to finance the recovery
of potentially viable dairy cooperatives.
iv.    The right of members to elect their own management committees and
boards of DCSs, unions and federations must ben ensured.
v.    Exemption from payment of income-tax: Under the Income Tax Act of
1961, the income of the cooperatives, except those exempted under
Section 80P, are taxable, currently at the rate of 35 percent on income
exceeding Rs.20,000. Section 80P exempts primary societies and small
cooperatives engaged in processing of members' agricultural produce
without power.
The three-tier dairy cooperative structure is a major source of technology
for farmers, helping them to promote improved productivity and thereby
contributing for the growth of our economy. This effort involved sub-
stantial capital investments, including setting up of training centres, farms
and agronomic centres, as well as the recurring costs of operating these
facilities and supporting the extension services that link the dairy farmer
with research and development.
Uniquely among cooperatives, dairy cooperatives meet the major portion
of extension and input services for their members. In other sub-sectors
these costs are financed by Government and its agencies. It would seem
appropriate to offset these investments by the dairy cooperative structure
by exempting them from income tax.
vi.    Steps must be taken to ensure autonomy to cooperative unions and
federations in decisions on pricing, appointment of professional
management, recruitment of the staff and in marketing strategies.
vii.   While it is important to strengthen the quality and efficiency of statutory
audits and to require continuous and concurrent audits by district and state
level dairy cooperatives, such steps should be combined with returning to
members the right to choose an auditor, provided the individual or firm
meets standards established by the Indian Institute of Chartered
Accountants.
viii.  Increased emphasis on internal control procedures, accounting and
auditing of federations, unions and village societies including the regular
review of the performance by the cooperative boards and general body
meetings by implementing simplified and uniform accounting.



74
Appendix D
Page 9 of 11
ix.    Activities detrimental to, or inconsistent with the objectives of Operation
Flood should not be carried out, much less encouraged, by implementing
and supporting agencies.
x.    It is important to introduce appropriate modifications in, and strict
implementation of, the Milk and Milk Products Order to ensure orderly
growth of the dairy industry and adherence to hygiene, sanitation and
quality standards.
xi.    An early, thorough and objective review of the effects of dairy sector
liberalisation with particular emphasis on its impact on the Indian dairy
farmer, productivity, milk and product quality, and returns to the individual
producer, the organisation and the economy should be undertaken. In the
event that such a review identifies significant problems attributable to libe-
ralisation of the sector, it is recommend that the Government of India
formulate a new national dairy policy that ensures that Indian dairying
continues to grow in a manner that respects the importance of dairying
to millions of rural farm families, protects the country's agricultural
systems and environment, and increasingly meets the nutritional needs of
India's consumers.
4.0 Evaluation of the performance of the World Bank and The European
Community
The World Bank and the European Community have been associated with the NDDB
virtually since the inception of the Operational Flood II programme. The World Bank's
contribution has been significant to the success of India's dairy development. At a very
early stage, the Bank had accepted the Anand Pattern of dairy development and extended
financing both during OF-II (NDP-I) and OF-III (NIDP-II). Until July 1992, the World
Bank's approach to the project had reflected both a shared commitment to the
fundamental objectives of Operational Flood as well as to the importance of learning from,
and responding to, implementation experience. The approach, which included adherence
to the Staff Appraisal Reports (SAR's - NDP I & II) and the Project agreements could be
described as a collaboration based on shared objectives and mutual respect. However,
subsequent to the Government of India's promulgation of a Milk and Milk Products Order
to ensure orderly growth in the dairy sector, the World Bank's policy towards the
cooperative sector appears to have undergone significant change.
Illustrative of the shift in approach are:
The World Bank-financed study, "India's Livestock Sector Review: Key
Issues for Enchancing Growth and Development", which has endorsed
significant private sector participation India's dairy industry.
The World Bank's announced intention to participate in financing of the



75
Appendix D
Page 10 of 11
UP Diversified Agriculture Project to promote private sector dairying
in Uttar Pradesh.
While both the India Livestock Sector Review and the Bank's participation in the UP
Diversified Agriculture Project suggest a policy shift in favour of private sector
participation in dairying, the signals appear mixed: For example the Bank raised a querry
for a joint venture with a private sector firm to establishment a 400,000 litres per day
liquid milk and fresh products plant in Calcutta and expressed its reluctance to approve the
proposal on the ground that the SAR contained no provision for entering into joint
ventures with the private sector. The proposal was finally approved with the condition
that it not be considered a precedent. It appears paradoxical that, on the one hand, the
Bank has advocated scrapping of the MMPO and private sector participation in the dairy
sector while, at the same time, objecting to collaborative ventures with private sector
firms.
Some examples of negative decisions taken after 1993 include:
a)    Refusal to approve financing to strengthen India's largest milk cooperative,
the Mehsana Milk Cooperative Union
In mid-August, 1994, the NDDB submitted an appraisall report for a
project to strengthen the Mehsana Dairy at an estimated cost of Rs.84
million. Mehsana Union is India's largest dairy cooperative with a superb
record of earning a net surplus and for paying remunerative prices to its
members, including regular payment of bonus. The union's turn over
during 1994-95 was Rs.3,420 millions (approximately US$100 million).
As per the NDDB's appraisal, the Mehsana Union proposal showed an
internal rate of return much higher than the World Bank's minimum
requirement of 12 percent (94% on the basis of incremental investment,
and 31% on the basis of the dairy project as a whole). Despite NDDB's
responding to innumerable requests for information and clarifications, the
Bank persisted in requiring more and more information, a large part of
which appeared irrelevant to the viability of the project. After pursuing the
matter without even a hint of success for more than three and one-half
months-- against the normal period of two weeks required for such
clearance-- the NDDB decided to finance the project from its own
resources.
b)    Delayed clearance of Appraisal Reports
In September, 1993 the Bank unilaterally withdraw NDDB's authority
to appraise NDP-II sub-projects, making prior Bank approval obligatory
for every sub-project of more than US$1.5 million. At the same time
changes in sub-project appraisal criterial were unilaterally imposed,
resulting in considerable delays in implementation.



76
Appendix D
Page 11 of 11
c)    Delhi Mother Dairy - Bulk vending booths
After an initial review of the proposal, the World Bank expressed their
inability to approve the investment because NDDB is the "proposer,
sub-borrower, lender and the procurement agency for the project. In
addition, the beneficiary is neither a state federation nor a milk producers'
union."
The Mother Dairy is the focal point of the northern segment of the
National Milk Grid. It ensures a ready market and remunerative price
to the farmers of a hinterland covering the states of Punjab, Haryana,
Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. The World
Bank SAR for OF-ILL had recommended investment on expansion as
well as on the establishment of new metro dairies.
In this case, after NDDB's provision of extensive justifications and
after considerable delay, the World Bank cleared the proposal.
Suggestions
It is recommended that once institutions like the World Bank and the European
Community have entered into agreements on the basis of a clearly articulated set of project
goals and objectives, these institituions should avoid creating situations which hinder
project implementation. They should recognise and appreciate that the borrower has to
face many domestic administrative, legal, procedural and operational problems while
implementing a project. A sympathetic, supportive and flexible attitude towards
implemenetation issues would help create a congenial atmosphere in which both the lender
and the borrower become effective partners to the project. When problems do arise, there
should be a clear and transparent review process by which the borrower can present its
point of view to a higher authority within the financing organisation.
Conclusion
With whatever problems may have occurred during the course of the collaboration with
the World Bank and the EC, the NDDB is grateful for the generous help which has
contributed both to the development of the Indian cooperative dairy industry and to the
NDDB's capacity to support that industry both financially and technically. Much remains
to be done in India. Beyond India there are a number of Asian and African countries that
have requested NDDB assistance in helping them to achieve in their dairy industries what
India has achieved through Operation Flood. Thus the support that NDDB has received
has helped it to emerge as an institution with the experience and expertise that can help
develop dairy industry of other countries where milk production is based mostly on small
farmers.






TMAGTNG
Iepor t  Mc 111321
T. e o   I t- Nc,:       l PI'Il-3
Type       i%'



