Page  1
                                                       November  5,  1990
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, INDIA
Re: Increase in Disbursement Percentages
Dear Sir:
     I write further to Mr. Vergin's letter dated October 18, 1990 to
you.  As noted therein, the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) and the International Development Association (the
Association) have decided, pursuant to a new policy designed to assist
borrowers affected by the recent Middle East crisis, to temporarily
increase the Bank and IDA share of the cost of projects financed under
Bank Loans and Association Credits, respectively.
     Consequently, the Bank and the Association propose, subject to your
confirmation, to hereby further amend the Loan Agreements between India
(the Borrower) and the Bank and the Development Credit Agreements between
the Borrower and the Association respectively listed in the Attachment
hereto in the manner described in that Attachment.  These amendments will
take effect upon receipt of your confirmation by the Bank and the
Association and will apply to all withdrawals of the proceeds of the
applicable Loans or Credits allocated to the categories listed in the
Attachment made on or after September 1, 1990.  For withdrawals made at
the existing disbursement percentages between September 1, 1990 and the
date of receipt of the Borrower's confirmation, the Borrower may submit
supplemental withdrawal applications to the Bank or Association for
eligible expenditures reflecting the increased disbursement percentages,
subject to the other provisions of the respective Loan or Development
credit Agreement.
      Subject to the Loan or Credit Account, as the case may be, being
open, this amendment will be applicable in respect of all withdrawals
made by December 31, 1991 or such later date as the Bank and Association
may establish.  Thereafter withdrawals shall be made on the basis of
disbursement percentages determined by the Bank and the Association and
notified to you.
      Please confirm your acceptance on behalf of the Borrower of the
foregoing amendments to the Agreements listed in the Attachment by
signing and dating the confirmation form on the enclosed copy of this
letter and returning it to us for our records.  Following your
confirmation, we propose to update the Table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
of each amended Loan and Credit Agreement to reflect all the disbursement
percentages revised to date in a consolidated form.  Copies thereof will
be sent to you for your information and record.
                                Sincerely,
                         Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
                              Acting Director
                         India Country Department
Attachment
CONFIRMED:
Page  2
INDIA
By
      Authorized Representative
