Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1859 IN
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2893 IN
                  (Second National Dairy Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                 NATIONAL DAIRY DEVELOPMENT BOARD
                      Dated January 13, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1859 IN
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2893 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  January  13,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the  Bank), and the NATIONAL DAIRY
DEVELOPMENT BOARD (NDDB).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association  has  agreed to make available to
the Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to one
hundred twenty one  million  two  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 121,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit  Agreement,  provided  that  NDDB agrees to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the  Bank  has  agreed to make available to
Page  2
the Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to two
hundred  million  dollars   ($200,000,000),   on   the  terms  and
conditions set forth  in  the  Loan  Agreement, provided that NDDB
agrees to undertake such  obligations  toward  the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (C)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower  and  NDDB,  a  part  of  the proceeds of the
Credit and the  Loan  provided  for  under  the Development Credit
Agreement and Loan Agreement, respectively, will be made available
to NDDB on terms and conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS NDDB, in consideration  of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit  Agreement  with the Borrower, and the
Bank's entering into  the  Loan  Agreement  with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. Wherever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires:
     (a)  reference to the  Association  shall  also  be deemed as
reference to the Bank, and  reference  to the Credit or the Credit
Account shall also be  deemed  as  reference  to  the Loan or Loan
Account, respectively (except in Section 6.03 hereof); and
     (b)  the several  terms  defined  in  the  Development Credit
Agreement, in the Loan  Agreement,  the Preamble to this Agreement
and in the General  Conditions  (as  so defined in the Development
Credit Agreement and  the  Loan  Agreement  respectively) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.O1. NDDB declares  its commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall carry out the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,   engineering  and  dairy
development practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. NDDB shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions applicable to the  Development  Credit Agreement and in
Sections 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08  and  9.09 of the General
Conditions  applicable  to   the   Loan   Agreement  (relating  to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. NDDB  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NDDB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  3
     Section  2.05.  (a)  NDDB  shall,   at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  NDDB  shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by  NDDB  of its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. If NDDB  establishes or acquires any subsidiary
entity, NDDB shall cause  such  subsidiary  to observe and perform
the obligations of  NDDB  under  this  Agreement  to the extent to
which such obligations shall or may be made applicable thereto, as
though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
     Section 2.07. (a) NDDB  shall  take necessary steps to ensure
that, DCSs, MPUs and State Federations are organized in accordance
with, and carry  out  their  functions  under charters and by-laws
which are consistent with, the principles set out in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     (b)  All state plans  and  sub-project appraisals approved by
NDDB  shall  comply  with,  or  demonstrate  significant  progress
(completed actions  as  well  as  specific  short  and medium term
targets) in adopting the features  set  out  in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
     Section  2.08.  (a)  Subject   to  Section  2.07(b)  of  this
Agreement, NDDB shall carry out  an appraisal of every sub-project
to be financed under the Project in accordance with procedures and
guidelines satisfactory to the  Association  and shall ensure that
all sub-projects in respect  of  which  sub-loans are made by NDDB
shall satisfy criteria acceptable to the Association including the
following:
          (i)  a financial  rate  of  return  of  at  least twelve
               percent (12%);
         (ii)  an  investment   cash   flow   supportable  by  the
               institution's  existing   and  projected  financial
               position;
        (iii)  appropriate  technical,  managerial,  financial and
               marketing arrangements;
         (iv)  appropriate    institutional    arrangements    for
               complying with the  provisions  of Section 2.07 (b)
               of this Agreement; and
          (v)  appropriate  arrangements  for   the  insurance  of
               facilities owned by the institution.
     (b)  NDDB shall require each institution receiving a sub-loan
to appropriate annually from  its  net  operating income an amount
necessary to maintain its equity  in real terms before determining
surpluses available for  dividend  distribution and producer price
bonuses.
     Section 2.09. NDDB shall submit  reports of its appraisals of
such sub-projects as may be requested by the Association from time
to time, for review by the Association.
     Section 2.10. NDDB shall  take  all necessary action to cause
DCSs, MPUs and State  Federations  supported under the Project, to
(i) have their accounts  and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in  accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by  independent  auditors  acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to NDDB as soon as available, and except
Page  4
as NDDB shall otherwise agree, not later than six months after the
end of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies  of the financial
statements of the  said  MPUs  and  State Federations (including a
summary statement of the findings  relative to the DCSs' audits by
said auditors, for such year as so audited), and (B) the report of
such audit of  the  financial  statements  of  the  MPUs and State
Federations by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail as
NDDB shall have  reasonably  requested;  and  (iii) furnish to the
Association such information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of all MPUs and State Federations and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section  2.11.  NDDB  shall  monitor  the  progress  of  each
approved  sub-project  against  specific  physical,  financial and
institutional development targets acceptable to the Association.
     Section  2.12.  Without  limitation   to  the  provisions  of
Section  9.06  of  the   General   Conditions  applicable  to  the
Development Credit  Agreement  and  Section  9.07  of  the General
Conditions applicable to the Loan  Agreement, NDDB shall submit to
the Association, within 90  days  after  the end of each semester,
semi-annual  progress  reports,  in  a  format  and  with contents
satisfactory to the Association,  summarizing, inter alia, project
performance, physical  achievements,  disbursements  by categories
and types of  expenses  and institutional development achievements
and objectives at the level of State Federations and MPUs.
     Section 2.13. (a)  NDDB  shall  make appropriate arrangements
with each State Federation and take necessary steps to ensure that
(i) each State Federation prepares  and adopts a state cooperative
dairy development  plan  (state  plan)  satisfactory  to NDDB; and
(ii) each State Federation  prepares  and adopts annual updates of
such state plans, satisfactory to  NDDB,  no later than by the end
of the preceding calendar year.
     (b)  Copies of the state plans and annual updates referred to
in Section 2.13 (a) above, as  approved by NDDB, shall be retained
by NDDB for such review by  the Association as the Association may
request from time to time.
     (c)  The state plans and  annual  updates thereof referred to
in Section 2.13 (a) and  (b)  above  shall  be  in a form and with
content satisfactory to the Association and shall include physical
and institutional development targets for the forthcoming year, as
well as a  review  of  the  physical and institutional development
achievements  of  the  previous  year  compared  with  the targets
previously established between the  State Federations and NDDB for
that year.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of NDDB
     Section 3.01. NDDB shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
and dairy development practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. NDDB shall  at  all  times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and dairy development practices.
     Section  3.03.  NDDB  shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04.  NDDB  shall  review  with  the Association, at
least once each year, the annual work program and annual budget of
Page  5
NDDB, in respect of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) NDDB shall maintain procedures, records and
accounts adequate  to  monitor  and  record  the  progress  of the
Project (and  of  each  sub-project  including  its  cost  and the
benefits derived from it) and  to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices  its  operations  and  financial condition in
respect of the Project.
     (b)  NDDB shall:
          (i)  have  its  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. NDDB shall  maintain  accounts and records for,
and  carry  out   financial   management  (including  funding  and
incurring  of  financial  obligations)  of,  its  activities under
Operation Flood separate from  all its other activities including,
in particular, non-dairy related activities.
     Section 4.03. NDDB shall take steps satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation towards the progressive  reduction of subsidies granted by
NDDB under Operation Flood.
     Section 4.04.  NDDB  shall  continue  its  ongoing  review of
India's dairy commodity aid and trade arrangements.
     Section 4.05. NDDB  shall  ensure  that:  (i) by December 31,
1991 the sale prices  of domestically produced reconstitution milk
products  shall  have  been  progressively  adjusted  to  a  level
adequate  to  cover   the   average   production   costs  of  such
commodities;  and  (ii)  the  sale  prices  of  dairy  commodities
imported under commodity aid  arrangements for Operation Flood III
shall be maintained  at  the  same  levels  as  the sale prices of
comparable domestically produced commodities.
     Section 4.06. NDDB shall take  necessary steps to ensure that
each of its  loans  to  MPUs  and  State Federations is adequately
secured  in  accordance  with  arrangements  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
     Section 4.07. NDDB  shall  ensure  that it maintains adequate
internal  control  procedures  and  departmental  responsibilities
including adequate separation of the responsibilities for planning
and promoting from those for the approval of investments.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
Page  6
on the date upon which  both  the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement become effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and NDDB  respectively  thereunder  shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               and the  Loan  Agreement  shall  have terminated in
               accordance with their respective terms; or
         (ii)  the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit   Agreement  or  the  Loan
Agreement or both of said  Agreements terminate in accordance with
their respective terms before the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify NDDB
of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension  under  the  General  Conditions  applicable  to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For National Dairy Development Board:
          National Dairy Development Board
          Anand - 388001
          Gujarat State
          India
Page  7
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                DAIRYBOARD                    172 207
                Anand
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  NDDB  may  be  taken  or  executed by its
Chairman or such other  person  or  persons  as the Chairman shall
designate in writing, and  NDDB  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to NDDB and so  long  as the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have terminated  prior  to  the  termination of the Loan
Agreement:
     (a)  the obligations of NDDB to  consult with, and to furnish
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to,
the Bank shall be satisfied  to  the extent performance in respect
of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
     (b)  the obligations of  the  Bank  to  consult  with, and to
furnish information to NDDB shall  be satisfied to the extent such
obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
     (c)  all actions taken (including  the giving of approvals or
the granting  of  waivers)  by  the  Association  pursuant  to the
Development Credit Agreement shall be  deemed to be taken pursuant
to both the Development  Credit  Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
and in the name  and  on  behalf  of  both the Association and the
Bank.
     Section 6.04.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    NATIONAL DAIRY DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Page  8
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Subject to the  concurrence  of  the Association, the design,
construction,  equipping  and  commissioning  of  balancing  dairy
plants may be procured on a turnkey basis.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts (except civil works included in turnkey
contracts for the construction  of  dairies to be procured through
international competitive bidding pursuant to Part A.2 hereof) may
be procured under contracts  awarded  on  the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for equipment and  materials estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $200,000 each, but more than the equivalent
of $25,000 each,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not to exceed the
equivalent  of  $155,000,000,  may  be  awarded  on  the  basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally   in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $25,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $15,000,000  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $5,000,000  or more, and for equipment
estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000  or  more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to  the  Association  pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to  the  Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of  the  Special  Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
Page  9
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section   4.01  (a)  (ii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  NDDB  in  carrying  out the Project, NDDB
shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                Key Features of the Operation Flood
                      Dairy Cooperative Model
     (a)  The boards of  directors  of  DCSs, MPUs and Federations
          are  duly  elected  by  the  members  from  their member
          constituents;
     (b)  the  cooperatives  operate  under  by-laws  ensuring the
          democratic process with regular  meetings of the boards,
          regular and independent  auditing, accountability of the
          boards to the members,  and annual general body meetings
          at which  audited  accounts  are  reviewed, future plans
          discussed and elections held;
     (c)  MPUs and State  Federations employ professional managers
          answerable to their boards;
     (d)  facilities are  owned  and  managed  by the cooperatives
          (generally  vested   at   the   MPU   level  unless,  in
          exceptional cases,  the  central  purpose  of  the asset
          justifies  management   and   ownership   at  the  State
          Federation level); and
     (e)  the cooperatives enjoy  autonomy  in pricing, marketing,
          appointment  of  key  personnel  and  the  employment of
          labor.
