Page  1
                                                              May 4, 1990
The Secretary to the Government
  of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi 110001
India
            Re:   Credit 1859-IN/Loan 2893-IN
                  (Second National Dairy Project)
                  Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
            Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated
January 13, 1988  (hereinafter  the  "Credit Agreement")  between India
(hereinafter  the "Borrower")  and the  International Development
Association (hereinafter  the "Association") and to the Loan Agreement of
even date therewith (hereinafter the "Loan  Agreement)  between  the
Borrower  and  the  International  Bank  for Reconstruction and
Development (hereinafter the "Bank"), both for the above referenced
project.   Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as in the Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
            In  response  to  your  request  and  the  discussions
between  our respective representatives, we are pleased to inform you
that the Association and the Bank agree to amend Schedule 1 to the Credit
Agreement, incorporated in the Loan Agreement pursuant  to Section 3.01
thereof,  for  the purpose  of increasing the percentage of expenditures
for civil works and,  equipment, materials and vehicles to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan.
            Accordingly, the Association and the Bank hereby propose to
amend Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement as follows:
            1.    The percentage of expenditures set forth under the
fourth column entitled "% of Expenditures to be financed" for civil works
under category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Credit Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
                  "50% of local expenditures".
            2.    The percentage of expenditures set forth under the fourth
column entitled "% of Expenditures to be financed" for equipment, materials
and vehicles under Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to the Credit Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
                  "100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
                  expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 50% of local
                  expenditures for other items procured locally".
            As  authorized representative of the Borrower under  the Credit
Agreement and under the Loan Agreement, please confirm your agreement to the
foregoing amendment by signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided
below.   Upon your confirmation as authorized representative of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, Schedule I to the Credit Agreement as amended
herein shall be incorporated in the Loan Agreement pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.01 thereof.
            This amendment may be executed in two counterparts, each of
which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully
executed original to us.  This amendment will be effective as of the date
of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of
this amendment.
            Because of their interest in this matter, a copy of this letter
is being sent to the Chairman, National Dairy Development Board of the
Borrower.
Page  2
                                  Very truly yours,
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                   AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By:
                                     Jan Wijnand
                                   Acting Director
                            Country Department IV, India
                                     Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
INDIA
By:
      Authorized Representative
      under the Credit Agreement
      and under the Loan Agreement
Date:
cc:   The Chairman
      National Dairy Development Board
      Anand - 388001
      Gujarat State
      India
