Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2893 IN
                  (Second National Dairy Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated January 13, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2893 IN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 13,  1988,  between INDIA, acting by
its  President   (the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development  Credit  Agreement  between  the  Borrower and the
International Development  Association  (the  Association) of even
date herewith (the  Development  Credit  Agreement), has requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  has  also  requested  the  Association to
provide additional financial  assistance  towards the financing of
the Project and by  the  Development Credit Agreement the Associa-
tion is agreeing to provide  such assistance in an aggregate prin-
cipal amount equivalent  to  one  hundred  twenty  one million two
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 121,200,000);
Page  2
     (C)  The Project will be  carried  out  by the National Dairy
Development Board (NDDB)  with  the  Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the  Borrower will make available to NDDB
the proceeds of the  Loan  as  provided  in this Agreement and the
proceeds of  the  Credit  as  provided  in  the Development Credit
Agreement;
     (D)  by  an  agreement  of   even  date  herewith  among  the
Association, the Bank and  NDDB  (the Project Agreement), NDDB has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project;
     (E)  the  Borrower  and  the   Bank  intend,  to  the  extent
practicable, that the proceeds of  the  credit provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement be  disbursed  on account of expendi-
tures in  respect  of  the  Project  before  disbursements  of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
ment;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below  (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  paragraph  11  of  Section   2.01  is  deleted  and  the
following is substituted therefor:
                "11.  the   term   "Project"   means  the  Project
          described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
          ment between the  Borrower  and  the Association of even
          date with this Loan Agreement as the description thereof
          may be amended from time  to time by agreement among the
          Borrower and the Association."
     (b)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires:
     (a)  the several terms defined  in the General Conditions and
in the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement,  in  the Development Credit
Agreement, in the General Conditions Applicable to the Development
Credit Agreement and  in  the  Preamble  to the Development Credit
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth;
     (b)  the  term  "Development   Credit  Agreement"  means  the
agreement of  even  date  herewith  between  the  Borrower and the
Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from
time to  time;  and  such  term  includes  the "General Conditions
Applicable to Development  Credit  Agreements" of the Association,
dated January 1,  1985,  as  applied  to  such  agreement, and all
schedules and agreements  supplemental  to  the Development Credit
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Project Agreement"  has  the meaning set forth
in  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  1.02  of  the  Development Credit
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
Page  3
     Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to two hundred
million dollars ($200,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement  for expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to  be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services  required  for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development  Credit Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  Subject  to  Section  3.02  of this Agreement,
Section 2.02 (b) and Articles III and IV of the Development Credit
Agreement and Schedules 1, 2,  3  and  4 thereto, as such Articles
and Schedules  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  are hereby
incorporated in the Loan Agreement  with the same force and effect
as  if  they  were  fully  set  forth  herein  with  the following
modifications in said Sections and Schedules 2 and 3:
          (i)  the terms "Credit" and  "Credit Account" (except in
               Section 3.01 (b) and  Section  3.02 of Article III)
               shall  be  deemed  to  read  as  "Loan"  and  "Loan
               Account" respectively;
Page  4
         (ii)  the term "this Agreement"  shall  be deemed to read
               as "the Development Credit Agreement";
        (iii)  the term "Association" shall  be  deemed to read as
               "Bank";
         (iv)  the  reference  to  the  Sections  of  the  General
               Conditions in Section 3.04  shall be deemed to read
               as  reference  to  the  following  Sections  of the
               General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
               Agreements  of  the  Bank  dated  January  1, 1985:
               "Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09."
     Section 3.02. So long as any  part of the Credit shall remain
unwithdrawn  or  outstanding  and  unless  the  Borrower  has been
notified otherwise by the Bank:
          (i)  all actions  taken,  including  approvals given, by
               the Association pursuant to any of the Sections of,
               and Schedules to,  the Development Credit Agreement
               enumerated in Section  3.01  of  this Agreement, as
               well as pursuant  to  and  Section  2.02 (a) of the
               Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be
               taken or given in  the  name  and on behalf of both
               the Association and the Bank; and
         (ii)  all information or  documentation  furnished by the
               Borrower  to  the   Association   pursuant  to  the
               provisions  of  any   of   such   Sections  of  the
               Development Credit  Agreement  or Schedules thereto
               shall  be  deemed  to  be  furnished  to  both  the
               Association and the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
the events specified  in  Section  5.01  of the Development Credit
Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
the events specified  in  Section  5.02  of the Development Credit
Agreement, provided, however, that the term "Association" wherever
it appears in such Section shall be read as "Bank".
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent  to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit  Agreement,  other  than  those  related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.03. If the  Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of  this Agreement, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement referred  to  in this Agreement shall
continue in full force  and  effect  between  the Borrower and the
Bank.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  5
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  6.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary,  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                          953-32354
               New Delhi
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                        Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                             SCHEDULE
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
Page  6
On each March 15 and September l5
     beginning September 15, 1993
     through   September 15, 2007                  6,665,000
On   March 15, 2008                                6,715,000
