Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1859 IN
                  (Second National Dairy Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated January 13, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1859 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1988,  between  INDIA, acting by
its  President  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has  also  requested the International Bank
for  Reconstruction  and   Development   (the   Bank)  to  provide
additional assistance towards the financing  of the Project and by
an agreement of even  date  herewith  between the Borrower and the
Bank (the Loan Agreement),  the  Bank  is agreeing to provide such
assistance in  an  aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent to two
hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) (the Loan);
     (C)  the Project will be  carried  out  by the National Dairy
Development Board (NDDB)  with  the  Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the  Borrower will make available to NDDB
Page  2
the proceeds of the Credit  as  provided in this Agreement and the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement;
     (D)  by an agreement of even date herewith among the Associa-
tion, the Bank and NDDB  (the  Project Agreement), NDDB has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of
the Project;
     (E)  the Borrower and the  Association  intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of  the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of eligible expenditures for the
Project before disbursements are made  of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement"  means  the  agreement  of even date
herewith between the Association  and  NDDB, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Loan Agreement" means the  agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and  the  Bank  for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments" of the Bank,  dated  January  1,  1985,  as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  NDDB pursuant to Section
3.O1 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time;
     (d)  "NDDB"  means  the  National  Dairy  Development  Board,
incorporated under the Borrower's National Dairy Development Board
Act, 1987 (No. 37  of  1987),  the  successor  to (i) the National
Dairy  Development  Board  registered  in  1965  under  the Bombay
Societies  Registration  Act,  1860;  and  (ii)  the  Indian Dairy
Corporation incorporated under the Borrower's Companies Act, 1956;
     (e)  "NDDB  Act"   means   the   Borrower's   National  Dairy
Development Board Act, 1987 (Act No. 37 of 1987);
     (f)  "DCS" means Dairy  Cooperative  Society, a village-level
cooperative  society  of  milk   producers  registered  under  the
Cooperative Societies Act of the concerned state;
     (g)  "MPU" means Milk Producers' Union, a cooperative society
of DCSs within  a  defined  area  registered under the Cooperative
Societies Act of the concerned state;
Page  3
     (h)  "State Federation" means  a  cooperative society of MPUs
within a state or, where there  is  only  one MPU in a state, such
MPU,  registered  under  the  Cooperative  Societies  Act  of  the
concerned state;
     (i)  "NCDFI" means the  National Cooperative Dairy Federation
of India, a cooperative  society  of State Federations, registered
in 1985 under the Borrower's Multi-State Cooperatives Act;
     (j)  "sub-project" means a  project  for  which a sub-loan is
made or proposed to be made  to  a MPU or State Federation by NDDB
under the Project out of  the  proceeds  of the Credit or the Loan
made available to NDDB by  the  Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (k)  "sub-loan" means a loan to finance a sub-project made or
proposed to be made by NDDB  to  a  MPU or State Federation out of
the proceeds of the Credit or  Loan  made available to NDDB by the
Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     (l)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to one hundred  twenty-one million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 121,200,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15,  1998  and  ending  September  15, 2022. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 15, 2007 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of
such principal amount,  and  each  installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause  NDDB  to  perform  in  accordance with the
provisions  of   the   Project   Agreement   all  the  obligations
respectively set forth therein, shall  take  and cause to be taken
all  action,  including   the   provision  of  funds,  facilities,
services, land and  other  resources,  necessary or appropriate to
enable NDDB to perform  such  obligations,  and  shall not take or
permit to be taken  any  action  which  would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit and
the proceeds of the  Loan  (except  the  amount  passed on to NDDB
pursuant to  Section  3.02  of  this  Agreement)  to  NDDB for the
purpose of making sub-loans to  MPUs and State Federations under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and NDDB under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association which shall include those set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
Page  5
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available as a grant to
NDDB four million dollars  ($4,000,000) equivalent of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Loan for the purposes of carrying out Part D
of the Project.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out  by  NDDB  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least two years after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i)  of  this  Section  and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year  the  report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
Page  6
     Section 4.02.  The  Borrower  shall  continue  to ensure that
NDDB shall be afforded managerial and financial autonomy.
     Section 4.03. The  Borrower  shall  cause concerned states to
take necessary action to  ensure  that:  (i)  DCSs, MPUs and State
Federations  which  are   beneficiaries   under  the  Project  are
established, and carry out their operations in accordance with the
principles set out in  Schedule  2  to  the Project Agreement; and
(ii)  State  Federations  carry  out   on  a  timely  basis  their
obligations pursuant to Section 2.13 of the Project Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  NDDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NDDB will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The NDDB Act shall have  been  amended or repealed so as
to affect materially and adversely  the ability of NDDB to perform
any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Project  Agreement  or  the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NDDB or for the suspension of the operations of NDDB.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.O1 (b) of the
General Conditions:
          (i)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement  has been executed on
               behalf of the Borrower and NDDB, respectively; and
         (ii)  all conditions  precedent  to  the effectiveness of
               the Loan Agreement have  been fulfilled, other than
               those  related   to   the   effectiveness  of  this
               Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by NDDB, and is  legally  binding upon NDDB in accordance
Page  7
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower  and  NDDB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NDDB in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.04.  The   obligations   of   the  Borrower  under
Section 5.02 of this  Agreement  shall  cease and determine on the
date on which the Development  Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date fifteen (15)  years  after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
               New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of  the  Credit  and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage  of  expenditures  for  items so to be
financed in each Category:
                     Amount of      Amount of
                    the Credit      the Loan
                     Allocated      Allocated
                    (Expressed     (Expressed         % of
                      in SDR        in Dollar     Expenditures
Category            Equivalent)    Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Civil works     12,000,000     22,000,000   25% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Equipment,      68,000,000    126,000,000   100% of foreign
     materials                                   expenditures;
     and                                         100% of local
     vehicles                                    expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 25%
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for other
                                                 items pro-
                                                 cured locally
                     Amount of      Amount of
                    the Credit      the Loan
                     Allocated      Allocated
                    (Expressed     (Expressed         % of
                      in SDR        in Dollar     Expenditures
Category            Equivalent)    Equivalent)   to be Financed
(3)  Turnkey         21,000,000     27,000,000
     contracts
     for the
     establish-
     ment of
     dairies
     under
     Part C of
     the Project
     (a) civil                                   100% of foreign
         works,                                  expenditures;
         equip-                                  100% of local
         ment and                                expenditures
         materials                               (ex-factory
                                                 cost)
     (b) services                                100%
(4)  Local            5,300,000     10,000,000   25% of local
     training,                                   expenditures
     studies
     and incre-
Page  9
     mental
     salaries
     for estab-
     lishing or
     strengthening
     DCSs, MPUs and
     State Federa-
     tions
                     Amount of      Amount of
                    the Credit      the Loan
                     Allocated      Allocated
                    (Expressed     (Expressed         % of
                      in SDR        in Dollar     Expenditures
Category            Equivalent)    Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5)  Consultants'     1,500,000     2,000,000    100%
     services
     and overseas
     training
(6)  Unallocated     13,400,000    13,000,000
     TOTAL         121,200,000   200,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above  no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement except that
withdrawals:  (i)  in  an   aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  the
equivalent of SDR 7,200,000,  may  be  made on account of payments
made  for  certain  expenditures   before   that  date  but  after
January 1, 1986 and approved  by  the  Association and the Bank as
eligible for financing under  the  proceeds  of the Credit and the
Loan; and (ii) in an aggregate amount not exceeding the difference
between the equivalent of SDR 27,300,000 and the SDR equivalent of
the amount withdrawn  from  the  Credit  Account  and Loan Account
pursuant to  paragraph  3(i)  of  this  Schedule,  may  be made on
account of payments  made  for  expenditures  before that date but
after April 14, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are to promote the establish-
ment  of  viable  cooperative  businesses,  owned  and  managed by
producers, for  collecting,  processing  and  marketing  milk from
rural hinterlands; increase the sale  of milk and milk products in
order  to  expand   rural   incomes;   and  improve  milch  animal
productivity.  The  Project  will   support  the  third  phase  of
Operation Flood,  India's  national  dairy cooperative development
program.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
Page  10
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Development of Dairy Cooperatives
     The further expansion  of  cooperatives involved in Operation
Flood by the  establishment  and  development  of about 23,000 new
DCSs and about 20 new  MPUs,  as well as the further consolidation
and development of existing MPUs and their associated DCSs.
Part B:   Improvement of Animal Productivity
1.   Development and improvement  of  veterinary services provided
to dairy cooperative  members  through  the provision of necessary
works, equipment, materials and vehicles;  and the carrying out of
a pilot program for vaccination against Foot and Mouth Disease;
2.   development and  improvement  of  animal  husbandry extension
services;
3.   increasing the production of feed and fodder by the expansion
of  balanced   cattle   feed   production   capacity  through  the
construction of  new  feed  mills  as  well  as  the  expansion of
existing feed mills and  the  establishment of urea/molasses block
plants; the distribution of  fodder minikits; the establishment of
silvipasture; the  provision  of  fodder  demonstration units; the
provision, as necessary, of fodder seed processing facilities; and
the  development  and  promotion  of  techniques  to  improve  the
nutritive value of crop residues; and
4.   genetic upgrading of cattle and buffaloes through the further
development  of  artificial  insemination  services,  provision of
bulls and strengthening of the sire evaluation program.
Part C:   Milk Collection, Processing, Storage and Distribution
1.   Increasing the milk processing capacity of dairy cooperatives
by the establishment of new  dairies and the expansion of existing
dairies to  create  inter  alia  incremental  capacity  of about 7
million liters per day (mlpd), as well as by the expansion of milk
powder manufacturing capacity;
2.   establishment of new  chilling  centers  and the expansion of
existing chilling centers; and
3.   provision  of  infrastructure,  equipment  and  vehicles  for
expanding distribution and marketing  facilities for milk and milk
products by about 5.6 mlpd,  including  those of the National Milk
Grid, and including the expansion of the capacity of metro dairies
and the provision of road  and  rail tankers as well as facilities
for the storage of milk and milk products.
Part D:   Institution Strengthening
1.   Establishment of new  training  centers and the strengthening
of  existing  training   centers   managed   by   MPUs  and  State
Federations;  and  the   provision   of  supplementary  equipment,
materials and services to  training  facilities  managed by  MPUs,
State Federations and NDDB;
2.   provision of training for staff  of DCSs, MPUs, State Federa-
tions and  NDDB  (including  overseas  training)  in  a variety of
relevant areas including,  in  particular, animal husbandry, dairy
processing, business  management,  marketing,  and  monitoring and
evaluation;
3.   further  development  of  uniform  accounting,  auditing  and
management  information   systems   and  strengthening  investment
analysis procedures at the  levels  of MPUs, State Federations and
NDDB;
4.   provision of assistance to  NDDB  in  carrying out an applied
research and development program related, in particular, to animal
Page  11
productivity, dairy processing and product development;
5.   provision  of  assistance  to  NDDB  in  strengthening  field
monitoring and evaluation of the Operation Flood program; and
6.   development  of  milk  marketing  strategies  and promotional
programs by NDDB, NCDFI, State Federations and MPUs.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Terms of On-lending to NDDB
1.   Interest Rate                     7.5 percent per annum
2.   Amortization Period               15  years  (including three
                                       years'  grace  on principal
                                       and   interest);   interest
                                       accruing    during    grace
                                       period to be capitalized.
3.   Foreign exchange risk
     to be borne by the
     Borrower
Terms of NDDB Re-Lending to Cooperatives
1.   Interst rate on                   10 percent per annum with
     sub-loans                         interest  rates  on working
                                       capital to be  at least 1.5
                                       percent above  the rate for
                                       investment projects.
2.   Amortization Period on            up to 15 years (including
     sub-loans                         three   years'   grace   on
                                       principal   and  interest);
                                       interest   accruing  during
                                       grace    period    to    be
                                       capitalized.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" mean Categories (1), (2),
(3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 22,700,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account or
the Loan Account and deposited  in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
Page  12
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and
deposit in the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to  replenish  the  Special  Account  with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments  made  out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit  Account  or from the Loan Account
under the eligible  Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of the
               Development  Credit  Agreement  or  from  the  Loan
               Account  in  accordance   with  the  provisions  of
               Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of
               the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of  the Credit and of
               the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible Categories,
               minus  the  amount   of   any  outstanding  special
               commitment entered into  by  the Association or the
               Bank pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of the respective
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and
the Loan allocated to  the  eligible  Categories shall follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
Page  13
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association or the Bank)  an  amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit  by  the  Association  into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to  the  Association  or  the  Bank  such  outstanding  amount for
crediting to the Credit  Account  or  to  the Loan Account, as the
case may be.
