CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 852 COM
Development Credit Agreement
(Highway Project)
between
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 13, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 852 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 13, 1978, between the FEbERAL
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has contracted from the African Development
Fund (hereinafter called the AFDF) a loan (hereinafter called the
AFDF Loan) in an amount of $4,500,000 equivalent to assist in
financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement between the Borrower and AFDB dated
August 18, 1978;
(C) the Borrower has also contracted from the Contributing
Parties to the OPEC Special Fund a loan (hereinafter called
the OPEC Loan) in an amount of $1,000,000 to assist in financing
Parts C and D of the Project on the terms and conditions of a loan
agreement entered into between the Borrower and the OPEC Special
Fund dated July 28, 1978;
(D) by letter addressed by the Association to the Coordi-
nator of the National Center for Planning, Methods and Finance
of the Borrower on December 19, 1977 the Association granted an
advance to the Borrower totalling $80,000 for the preparation of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(E) pursuant to the terms of said advance the aggregate
amount thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and ccnditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
this Section and Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in the preamble to this Agree-
ment withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any
unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of such advance shall automatically be cancelled on the
same date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Assopiation shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and arrangements for the works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiatinual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1989, and ending
August 1, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Equipment, Improvement of Territory and
Quality of Life with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, finaancial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services, personnel and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants to super-
vise the construction included in Part A of the Project and to


﻿carry out the studies included in Part F thereof, as well as such
other consultants and experts, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association, as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the


﻿-5-
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the.
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The three-year improvement and maintenance pro-
gram included in Part C of the Project shall be reviewed annually
by the Borrower and the program for each year furnished to the
Association for its approval at least three months prior to the
beginning of the year.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall employ by January 1, 1979
a qualified and experienced soils engineer to head the soils
laboratory benefiting from Part E of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the oper-
ations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall organize its administra-
tion responsible for the construction and maintenance of roads
in a manner and according to a schedule of implementation agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall
be necessary, including the reestablishment and maintenance of
the Road Fund, to ensure, following the completion of the Project,
adequate financing from domestic resources of its program of
road maintenance. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views £;om time to time on the adequacy of budget allocations for
the purpose.
Section 4.04. By December 31, 1979 the Borrower shall put
into effect a system of registration of vehicles.


﻿-6-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall establish a system of clas-
sification of roads, and beginning in 1979, shall carry out annual
traffic counts on its roads classified as major roads.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to limit by the end of 1978 axle loads of vehicles to
8 tons and to enforce such other limits of weight and dimensions
as shall be appropriate to the design standards of its roads.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, sLbject to
paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of any part of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) This Section shall not apply if: (i) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, the event specified in
Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Association has been informed by the
OPEC Special Fund that all conditions precedent to the disburse-
ment of the OPEC Loan, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date January 15, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
MinistAre des Finances,
de l'Economie et du Plan
Boite Postale 324
Moroni
R6publique Ffdfrale Islamique des Comores


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       211 CW BOOTH KO
Moroni
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS HEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
By /s/ Ali M'Roudjae
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                    Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Road improvements,                                140,000
Part B of the
Project
(2) Spare par-s, radio                               2,330,000
equipment, materials
and fuel, Part C of
the Project
(3) Building repairs,                                 200,000
(excluding salaries),
workshop equipment
and tools, Part D
of the Project
(4) Soils laboratory                                   40,000
equipment, Part E
of the Project
(5) Services of consul-                               540,000
tants and experts,
Parts C and D of the
Project
(6) Consultants' services,                            550,000
Part F of the Project
(7) Refunding of Project                               80,000
preparation advance
(8) Unallocated                                     1,120,000
TOTAL  5,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $140,000, may be made in respect of
Part B of the Project on account of payments made for such expen-
ditures before that date but after March 1, 1978; and
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to strengthen the administration
of the Borrower's roads, to implement a roads improvement and
maintenance program and to upgrade and expand the main road
network. It includes the following:
Part A:   Construction of a road of about 20.4 km in the Niouma-
kele area of Anjouan island.
Part B:   Improvement of about 700 m of the Mutsamudu-Sima road
on Anjouan.
Part C:   Establishment of one road-improvement unit, two patching
units and one resealing unit and their utilization in a
three-year program of road improvement and maintenance
incltding training of personnel.
Part D:   Improvement of mechanical workshops, including repairs
to buildings, procurement of equipment and tools and
training of personnel.
Part E:   Procurement of equipment for a soils laboratory.
Part F:   Studies:
(i) detailed engineering of the Fomboni-Hoani-Miringoni
road (25 km);
(ii) feasibility study, and if justified, detailed engi-
neering of the Miringoni-Nioumachoua road (20 km);
and
(iii) rural development p  einvestment study for the
Nioumakele area.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1982.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Civil Works
1.   The works included in Part B of the Project shall be carried
out under contracts awarded following local competitive bidding.
2.   The works included in Part C of the Project will be carried
out under force account.
3.   The works included in Part D of the Project will be carried
out either under contracts awarded following local competitive
bidding or under force account.
B.   Equipment and Spare Parts
Equipment and spare parts will be procured on the basis of
negotiated contracts following international shopping among
competing potential suppliers.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid or solicitation of quotations
and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts or orders estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids or quotations are invited, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of
the invitations and the specifications and other related docu-
ments, together with a description of the procedures to be fol-
lowed for the bidding or invitations and shall make such modifica-
tions in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to such documents
shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued.
(b) After bids or quotations have been received and evalu-
ated, the Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award or
order is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder or
supplier to which it intends to award the contract or order and
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in


﻿- 13 -
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids or quotations received, together with the recommen-
dations for award of the said consultants and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award or order would
be inconsistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditicns of the contract or order shall
not, without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids or quotations were invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the paragraph 1
above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, or
quotations, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


