                                  Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                        Report No: ICR3099




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-51970)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 287.75 MILLION
                      (US$ 440 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                  REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF MYANMAR

                                    FOR A

            REENGAGEMENT AND REFORM SUPPORT PROGRAM

                                 April 30, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
Southeast Asia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
        (Exchange Rate Effective as of January 31, 2014)
          Currency Unit          =            Kyats
            984 Kyats            =           US$ 1

                       FISCAL YEAR
                      April 1 – March 31

              WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                         Metric system

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
ASEAN          Association of Southeast Asian Nations
CPF            Country Partnership Framework
DO             Development Objective
DPO            Development Policy Operation
DPL            Development Policy Loan
DSA            Debt Sustainability Analysis
DTIS           Diagnostic Trade and Integration Study
FDI            Foreign Direct Investment
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
HIPC           Highly Indebted Poor Countries
ICA            Investment Climate Assessment
ICR            Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetary Fund
ISN            Interim Strategy Note
ISR            Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
JBIC           Japan Bank for International Cooperation
PDO            Program Development Objective
PEFA           Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PER            Public Expenditure Review
QEA            Quality at Entry
QSA            Quality of Supervision
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SCD            Systematic Country Diagnostic
SMP            Staff Monitoring Program
WBG            World Bank Group




  Regional Vice President      :   Axel van Trotsenburg
        Country Director       :   Ulrich Zachau
          Sector Director      :   Sudhir Shetty
       Country Manager         :   Kanthan Shankar
         Sector Manager        :   Mathew Verghis
    Project Team Leader        :   Khwima Nthara
       ICR Team Leader         :   Khwima Nthara
     ICR Primary Author        :   Richard Record
                                                                MYANMAR

                        REENGAGEMENT AND REFORM SUPPORT PROGRAM

                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS




DATA SHEET ............................................................................................................................... ii
  A. Basic Information ................................................................................................................... ii
  B. Key Dates ............................................................................................................................... ii
  C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................... ii
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................................... iii
  E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................................. iii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................. iii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................. v
  H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................................. v

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT ........................................ 1
  1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 7
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 13
  6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 15

Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 17
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................................ 19
Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................................... 19
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................................... 20
Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................................ 21
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 22
Map................................................................................................................................................ 23
                                               MYANMAR

                  REENGAGEMENT AND REFORM SUPPORT PROGRAM

                                               DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                       Reengagement and Reform Support
Country:                 Myanmar                     Project Name:
                                                                       Program
Project ID:              P133706                     L/C/TF Number(s): IDA-51970
ICR Date:                04/30/2014                  ICR Type:         Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      DPL                         Borrower:         Republic of the Union of Myanmar
Original Total
                         XDR 287.75 million          Disbursed Amount: XDR 273.15 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 273.15 million
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other
External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                                      Revised / Actual
Process              Date                  Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:      10/10/2012            Effectiveness:       01/25/2013            01/25/2013
Appraisal:           11/05/2012            Restructuring(s):
Approval:            01/22/2013            Mid-term Review:
                                           Closing:             10/31/2013            10/31/2013


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                            Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                         Moderate
Bank Performance:                                    Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                        Ratings                Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Highly Satisfactory    Government:                  Highly Satisfactory
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Highly Satisfactory                                 Highly Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
                                                   Overall Borrower
Overall Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory                                   Highly Satisfactory
                                                   Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
                                                     QAG Assessments (if
Implementation Performance Indicators                                        Rating
                                                     any)
 Potential Problem Project at
                              No                     Quality at Entry (QEA): None
 any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any time                         Quality of Supervision
                              No                                             None
 (Yes/No):                                           (QSA):
 DO rating before
                              Not applicable
 Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                                Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Banking                                                                            29                      29
 Central government administration                                                  29                      29
 General education sector                                                            7                       7
 General industry and trade sector                                                  29                      29
 Health                                                                              6                       6
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Macroeconomic management                                                           14                      14
 Other financial sector development                                                 14                      14
 Public expenditure, financial management and procurement                           43                      43
 Regulation and competition policy                                                  22                      22
 Trade facilitation and market access                                                7                       7


E. Bank Staff
Positions                       At ICR                                       At Approval
Vice President:                 Axel van Trotsenburg                         Pamela Cox
Country Director:               Ulrich Zachau                                Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:                 Mathew Verghis                               Mathew Verghis
Program Team Leader:            Khwima Nthara                                Khwima Nthara
ICR Team Leader:                Khwima Nthara
ICR Primary Author:             Richard Record


F. Results Framework Analysis
Program Development Objectives (from Program Document)
The DPO’s development objectives were two-fold (i) to support Myanmar’s critical reforms for strengthening
macroeconomic stability, improving public financial management, and improving the investment climate, which will in
turn help grow the economy, create jobs, and reduce poverty; and (ii) to facilitate the clearance of Myanmar’s arrears to
IDA, which was required in order to restore normal relations between Myanmar and the World Bank.
Revised Program Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.


(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                Original Target Values      Formally       Actual Value Achieved
Indicator             Baseline Value            (from approval              Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                                documents)                  Values         Years
Indicator 1 :         Arrears to IDA are cleared
Value                 US$ 411 million          Zero                                      Zero
Date achieved         10/01/2012               10/31/2013                                10/31/2013
                      The Reengagement and Reform Support Program was approved by the World Bank board of
                      executive directors on January 22, 2013. Subsequently, the Government of Myanmar repaid
                      arrears to IDA totaling US$ 419,604,593.81 on January 25, 2013 with financing from a bridge
                      loan provided by the Government of Japan. On the same day, IDA disbursed a credit for an
                      equivalent amount to the Government of Myanmar to repay the bridge loan, and the remaining
Comments
                      balance of the DPO was cancelled. As of January 25, 2013 Myanmar was no longer in arrears to
                      IDA, the suspension of disbursements has been lifted and credits restored to accrual status.
                      Following clearance of IDA and ADB arrears, and a year of implementation of an IMF Staff
                      Monitored Program (SMP) during 2013, bilateral arrears are also now fully cleared with only
                      minor procedural steps remaining.
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target Values         Formally       Actual Value Achieved
Indicator            Baseline Value          (from approval                 Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                             documents)                     Values         Years
Strengthening macroeconomic stability
                     Improving exchange rate management institutional framework and policy – reduced
Indicator 1 :
                     margin between official and parallel exchange rate
Value                5.0 percent               <5.0 percent                               0.2 percent
Date achieved        05/01/2012                10/31/2013                                 08/31/2013
                     According to the August 2013 review of the IMF Staff Monitored Program, the margin between
Comments
                     official and parallel exchange rates had fallen to just 0.2 percent.
Indicator 2 :        Instituting measures for fiscal discipline – reduced deficit to GDP ratio
Value                -6.0 percent            <-6.2 percent                                   -3.7 percent
Date achieved        FY2011/12               10/31/2013                                      FY2012/13
                     Data from the August 2013 review of the IMF Staff Monitored Program shows that the budget
Comments             deficit for the 2012-13 fiscal year was estimated to have been reduced to 3.7 percent.
                     Government’s own target is for a budget deficit of below 5.0 percent of GDP.
Improving public financial management
                     Preparation of a more inclusive budget – actual increase in public expenditures on
Indicator 3 :
                     education and health
                                             Actual expenditures in
                     Education: 310b kyats   FY2012/13 > actual                            Education: 764b kyats
Value
                     Health: 92b kyats       expenditures in FY2011/12                     Health: 400b kyats
                                             in real terms
Date achieved        FY2011/12               10/31/2013                                    FY2012/13
                     World Bank staff estimates for actual public expenditures on education and health prepared via
                     BOOST (a World Bank tool used for analysis of public spending) show substantial increases,
Comments             with nominal expenditures on education more than doubling to 764 billion kyats in the 2012-13
                     fiscal year, and nominal expenditures on health quadrupling to 400 billion kyats over the same
                     period.
Improving the investment climate
Indicator 4 :        Improving access to finance – increased share of credit to the private sector
Value                59.9 percent            >20 percent increase                            49.9 percent
Date achieved        FY2011/12               10/31/2013                                      FY2012/13
                     IMF SMP data shows a continued rapid expansion in bank credit to the private sector, with
Comments             annual growth in fiscal year 2012-13 estimated to be 49.9 percent, above the target benchmark of
                     20 percent minimum growth.
Indicator 5 :        Reducing barriers for foreign investment – increased foreign direct investment
                     Kyat 3,477 billion       Value greater than Kyat
Value                                                                                        US$ 2.8 billion
                     (US$ 2.0 billion)        3,477 in real terms
Date achieved        FY2011/12                10/31/2013                                     FY2012/13
                     The baseline value of Kyat 3,477 billion for FDI in 2011/12 appears to be overstated and/or has
                     since been revised down by the authorities. IMF SMP estimates show a substantial increase in
Comments             FDI from US$ 2.0 billion in fiscal year 2011/12 to US$ 2.8 billion in fiscal year 2012/13, a 40
                     percent increase. Other data sources show increases of a similar magnitude, suggesting an overall
                     strongly upward trend over the period of analysis.
Indicator 6 :        Removing barriers to trade – increased volume of international trade
                     US$ 18.17 billion       Value higher by at least 1.5                    US$ 18.43billion
Value
                     (US$ 20.7 billion)      percent                                         (US$ 22.8 billion)
Date achieved        FY2011/12               10/31/2013                                      FY2012/13
                    The results framework for the original Program Document refers to a baseline figure of Kyat 18
                    billion for the volume of international trade in 2011/12. This is assumed to be a mistake with
                    Kyats substituted for US Dollars. Government’s own figures for international trade (total exports
                    plus imports) show 1 percent increase over the program period, from US$ 18.17 billion in
Comments
                    2011/12 to US$ 18.43 billion in 2012/13. IMF SMP data shows a 10 percent increase in total
                    international trade from US$ 20.7 billion in 2011/12 to US$ 18.43 billion in 2012/13,
                    substantially in excess of the benchmark target, with the difference from official data sources
                    attributed to faster growth in imports.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
             Date ISR                                                                      Actual Disbursements
No.                                     DO                              IP
             Archived                                                                          (US$ million)
Not applicable.


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not applicable.
                                          MYANMAR

                REENGAGEMENT AND REFORM SUPPORT PROGRAM

             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT



1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Reengagement and Reform Support Program was prepared in the midst of a triple transition
in Myanmar: from an authoritarian military system to democratic governance; from a centrally
directed economy to a market-oriented economy; and from 60 years of conflict to peace in its
border areas. These transitions, which remain incomplete, have the potential to create opportunity
and shared prosperity for the people of Myanmar and for the country to resume its place as one of
the most dynamic economies in Asia.

As the largest country in mainland Southeast Asia, Myanmar has one of the lowest population
densities in the region, with fertile lands, significant untapped agricultural potential and a rich
endowment of natural resources. Its geographic location at the intersection of China and India,
two of the world’s most dynamic economies, makes it well positioned to resume its traditional
role as a regional trading hub and a key supplier of minerals, natural gas and agricultural produce.

In the 1990s, relations between Myanmar and the international community deteriorated. Due to
the country’s poor human rights record, western governments and institutions imposed various
types of sanctions. The country’s regime at the time responded by stopping the servicing of
credits to governments and institutions that it considered unfriendly. Myanmar stopped servicing
credits to IDA in early 1998 and was subsequently declared a member not in good status in
September 1998. The implication was that while Myanmar remained a member of the World
Bank, all credits already approved but not fully disbursed were cancelled and the country was no
longer eligible for new lending.

Since 2011, the government has been implementing an ambitious economic, political and
governance reform program. Some of the economic reforms have been aimed at removing
economic distortions. Examples include floating of the currency, introduction of new fiscal
regulations to rationalize personal income tax and reduce consumption tax. Structural reforms
have also been undertaken aimed at developing the private sector and stimulating foreign direct
investment, liberalizing the telecommunications sector, and undertaking a review of the financial
sector to better promote access to finance, and establishing a business environment that is more
conducive to job creation.

Going forward, the government realizes that a key challenge will be to ensure that reforms
translate into improved living standards for the majority of the population, and that gains
registered are sustained. Following years of political and economic repression, Myanmar remains
one of the poorest countries in East Asia and the Pacific, with an estimated GDP per capita of
US$ 868 in 2012/13 and a poverty headcount of 25.6 percent, according to a 2010 national




                                                 1
household survey 1. The country also performs poorly on most indicators of human and social
development. For example, 32 percent of children under five suffer from malnutrition. Limited
access to and the poor state of infrastructure are major impediments to providing basic health and
education services and for economic development. Almost half the roads are not passable during
the monsoon season.

In order to begin dealing with these challenges, the government sought to move away from
isolation and engage the support of the international community. There was a recognition by the
government that significant policy and structural bottlenecks remain in the economy that would
prevent the country from realizing its potential, and that more and further reaching reforms would
therefore be necessary.

As a result of the improved political and human rights situation, the international community
began to reengage, with a number of steps taken towards the normalization of relations with
Myanmar. These included a number of high profile visits to Myanmar by western leaders, the
removal or suspension of economic and financial sanctions, and the reestablishment of diplomatic
relations. Major creditors, including Japan, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the
International Development Association (IDA) began to discuss modalities for reengagement.
Perhaps most symbolically, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) accepted
Myanmar’s bid to take up the annual rotating chairmanship of the regional bloc in 2014.

Considering the government’s commitment, and the pace and scale of the reform process, a
limited window of opportunity existed for the international community to help ensure that the
reforms succeeded and were sustained. After being closed to the outside world for a long time,
the government was keen to learn from the experiences of other countries that have gone through
similar transitions, and therefore saw development partners as key to facilitating that knowledge
transfer and peer learning process. In addition, the increased presence of donors was expected to
have a positive signaling effect on potential higher quality investors, particularly in diversified
sectors outside the natural resources. However, the presence of arrears presented a major obstacle
to reengagement with the international community. Of Myanmar’s total debt stock of US$ 15
billion (estimated as of end December 2012) some US$ 11 billion was in the form of arrears that
had accumulated during the period of sanctions and isolation. The bulk of these arrears
(approximately 92 percent) were owed to Paris Club debtors, and arrears to Japan alone were 65
percent of the total. Arrears to multilateral institutions were around 9 percent of the total, with 5
percent due to the ADB and 4 percent to IDA.

It was against this background that the proposed Development Policy Operation (DPO) was
prepared. Before the World Bank board of executive directors approved a pre-arrears clearance
grant in November 2012 to support a Community Driven Development project, the Bank had not
approved any new projects in Myanmar since 1987. World Bank activities in Myanmar were
suspended in 1988 as part of broader sanctions by western countries and institutions following a
deterioration in human rights and political repression of pro-democracy demonstrations. In 1998,
the government ceased repaying prior credits and subsequently went into arrears to IDA.

Recognizing the opportunity to reengage with the authorities and support the nascent reform
program, a DPO was prepared consistent with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for
Myanmar and with institutional guidelines on the clearance of arrears. While significant risks


1
 More recent estimates by the World Bank suggest that the poverty headcount rate may actually be as high as 37.5
percent, significantly higher than previously reported.

                                                       2
existed, in Staff’s assessment these were considered to be outweighed by the benefits, and by the
costs of inaction.

The ISN for Myanmar, which was approved in November 2012, aimed to lay the foundation for
the resumption of a full country program, including by supporting diagnostic work to build a
shared understanding of the key development challenges facing the country. The approach drew
upon the experience gained by the World Bank Group (WBG) in other countries, and in particular
upon the lessons from the 2011 World Development Report on Conflict, Security and
Development. The ISN focused on three pillars: the first aimed at supporting government’s efforts
to transform institutions to allow them to deliver for citizens; the second at building confidence in
the ongoing reform process; and the third at preparing the way for the resumption of a full
country program.

The third pillar of the ISN, on preparing the way for the resumption of a full country program,
provided for the provision of a DPO to assist the government’s reform program with the proceeds
used to support Myanmar’s foreign exchange needs, including those associated with the clearance
of arrears to IDA. As a reengaging country, Myanmar was eligible for exceptional support and
since the country was projected to be at low risk of debt distress after arrears clearance, IDA
resources were provided on credit terms. The reforms supported by the DPO were also consistent
with the ISN pillars on transforming institutions and building confidence.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The DPO’s development objectives were two-fold (i) to support Myanmar’s critical reforms for
strengthening macroeconomic stability, improving public financial management, and improving
the investment climate, which would in turn help grow the economy, create jobs, and reduce
poverty; and (ii) to facilitate the clearance of Myanmar’s arrears to IDA, which was required in
order to restore normal relations between Myanmar and the World Bank Group.

The following specific outcomes were expected as a result of the operation:
    An exchange rate regime that is more supportive of private sector development;
    An increase in public expenditures on pro-poor sectors due to more inclusive and
        transparent budgeting;
    An expansion in bank credit to unbanked men and women;
    An increase in foreign direct investment;
    An increase in the volume of international trade; and,
    Full clearance of arrears to IDA.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The main policy areas supported by the program where: (a) strengthening of macroeconomic
stability through development of the financial system, improved exchange rate policy, and the
instituting of fiscal discipline; (b) enhanced transparency, accountability and external oversight in
the management of public finances, improved revenue management through better tax policy and
administration, and improved budget planning and preparation; and, (c) improvements to the
climate for investment by increasing access to finance, establishing financial sector infrastructure

                                                 3
to facilitate business transactions, reducing barriers to entry and the cost of starting and doing
business, and removing barriers to trade.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

Not applicable.

1.6 Other significant changes

Not applicable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

The Reengagement and Reform Support Program was prepared as a standalone, single tranche
DPO aimed at supporting the full normalization of relations between Myanmar and the World
Bank Group, as well as the government’s efforts to undertake critical institutional and policy
reforms as part of the implementation of its medium-term development strategy. The operation
was prepared in a very short space of time, representing a limited window of opportunity for the
reengagement process.

Upon approval of the credit, the proceeds were disbursed to support the government’s foreign
exchange needs including through the reimbursement of a bridging loan extended to clear
Myanmar’s arrears to IDA. The use of a bridging loan mechanism was selected by the
government as the preferred option for clearance of arrears to both IDA and the ADB after
consideration of a number of alternatives.

The complexity of arrears clearance operations, with the need to reconcile and agree on the debt
stock across creditors when the debt has not been serviced in years, setting up and establishing a
bridge local process (complicated in Myanmar’s case by sanctions on financial institutions) in the
context of countries where the government and Bank have not established procedures for working
together, means that such operations are usually time consuming and subject to delay.

The critical prior actions supported under the DPO were considered to represent a combination of
actions that would contribute to implementation of the government’s medium term policy and
institutional reform program. The following table lists the agreed policy areas and prior actions of
the program across the three areas of engagement.

 Policy areas                        Prior actions                                         Status
 (a) Strengthening macroeconomic stability
  1    Improving exchange rate    Enacted the Foreign Exchange Management Law              Met
       management institutional   and introduced a managed float system of
       framework and policy       exchange rate determination
  2 Instituting measures for      Included a limit on borrowing in the Union               Met
       fiscal discipline          Budget Law for Fiscal Year 2012/13
 (b) Improving public financial management
  3   Ensuring a more inclusive      Increased allocations to education and health in      Met
      budget                         the FY2012/13 budget


                                                 4
  4    Enhancing transparency in Published the Union Budget Law in a local                Met
       the management of public    newspaper
       finances
 (c) Improving the investment climate
  5   Improving access to            The Central Bank of Myanmar permitted                Met
      finance                        commercial banks to accept various additional
                                     forms of collateral
  6   Reducing barriers for          Enacted the Foreign Investment Law                   Met
      foreign investments
  7   Removing barriers to trade     Abolished export first policy on access to foreign   Met
                                     exchange for importers


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

The DPO was prepared at a critical time when the government was attempting to reach out to the
international community for support to its nascent economic and social reform program. After a
long period of disengagement, preparation of the operation provided a vehicle for the WBG to
reengage with the authorities and establish the basis of a new partnership with the government.
The lack of familiarity with Bank operations among client counterparts, as a result of the
prolonged period of disengagement from the WBG, posed an additional set of challenges. The
Bank responded very quickly to positive signals from the government and benefitted from a
responsive and decentralized task team based in the newly established country office in Yangon,
and with technical guidance (particularly on the complex process of arrears clearance) from
specialized staff in Washington, DC.

The ISN provided for a series of analytical activities—much of which has been financed via trust
fund arrangements—to rebuild the knowledge base on Myanmar, and the operation was informed
by economic and sector work on a range of issues including a Public Expenditure and Financial
Accountability Assessment (PEFA), a Public Expenditure Review (PER), an Investment Climate
Assessment (ICA) and diagnostic technical assistance on financial sector development. However,
at the time of preparation most of these analytical products remained work in progress. Thus, the
prior actions that formed the program reflected mostly a series of higher level or first order
policies necessary for laying the foundations of a more modern, market based economy.

Given the weak underlying knowledge base, the limited absorptive capacity of a government only
just beginning to reengage with the international community, and due to the shared challenges it
was appropriate that the operation was prepared in close cooperation with other development
partners. Macroeconomic monitoring and the essential review of the adequacy of the
macroeconomic framework was undertaken jointly with the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
during the preparation and implementation of a Staff Monitored Program (SMP). The SMP,
which was prepared concurrently with the DPO, and subsequently satisfactorily implemented,
aimed to support the authorities in their efforts towards maintaining macroeconomic stability
during the reform process, and in laying the foundations for continued sound and stable
macroeconomic policies. A joint Debt Sustainability Analysis (DSA) prepared by the World
Bank and IMF ahead of preparation provided a detailed assessment of Myanmar’s stock of
outstanding debt and with the full clearance of arrears the country was projected to be at low risk
of debt distress thereafter.




                                                5
Similarly preparation of the operation was closely coordinated with the ADB with a shared
approach to arrears clearance adopted by the two multilateral development banks along a
common timeline 2. An arrears clearance note was prepared jointly by IDA and the ADB outlining
three main options: (i) financing of the arrears with the government’s own resources; (ii)
financing of the arrears with grants from bilateral donors; and if either of the first options were
insufficient, (iii) financing of the arrears via bridging loans to be repaid via policy based lending
from the two institutions. An additional possible option for IDA was for Myanmar to be
grandfathered into the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. After due consideration,
the authorities elected to use bridging loans provided by the Government of Japan through the
Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) to clear arrears to both IDA and the ADB. Close
coordination, including joint missions, continued between the three institutions throughout the
preparation, approval and subsequent disbursement of the DPO. There were significant
similarities in the policy areas covered by the ADB’s policy based loan and IDA’s DPO 3 and the
ADB arrears clearance operation was disbursed against prior actions that covered a similar scope
of policy areas.

The operation also benefitted from emerging lessons of successful engagement by development
partners in a post conflict environment, including the need to build institutions for longer term
stability and to show early results from the reform process.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring took place in two phases. The first involved keeping track of progress in the
implementation of the agreed prior actions for the DPO, particularly those that were still
outstanding, as well as executing the various steps for the arrears clearance transaction itself. On
the former, the team had regular contact with the authorities, including through meetings, to
monitor implementation of the outstanding prior actions and gather the required documentary
evidence. Similarly, a checklist of steps to be followed was prepared for the arrears clearance
transaction itself. In this context, there was close coordination by IDA’s central departments in
Washington, the Bank team in the field, the Government of Myanmar, JBIC, and the ADB, in
executing the transaction. As a result, the DPO proceeds were disbursed and utilized as planned.
In particular, the Government used the funds to repay a short-term bridge loan contracted from
JBIC for the clearing of arrears to IDA.

The second phase of monitoring involved keeping track of progress in the implementation of the
reform program beyond the prior actions, and keeping track of progress towards the achievement
of expected outcomes of the reform program as presented in the results matrix of the program
document. In this regard, monitoring was undertaken as part of the Bank’s engagement with the
Government of Myanmar on various fronts. For example, monitoring of progress on the
macroeconomic program and reforms in other areas was being done through preparation of the bi-
annual Myanmar Economic Monitor (MEM) and participation in IMF missions on Article IV
Consultations and review of the SMP. Similarly, progress on PFM reforms was being monitored
during the preparation of the PFM Modernization Project jointly funded by IDA, the United
Kingdom and Australia, as well as during the on-going PER.


2
  At the time of preparation, Myanmar’s arrears to the ADB were estimated to stand at US$ 517 million. The presence
of arrears similarly constrained the depth of engagement in Myanmar by the ADB prior to clearance.
3
  The four output (policy) areas covered the ADB’s policy-based loan were as follows: (i) Macroeconomic stability
fiscal sustainability, and strengthening public finance; (ii) Improving investment, trade, and financial integration; (iii)
Stimulating rural development for inclusive growth; and (iv) Promoting Human Capital Development for Inclusive
Growth

                                                            6
2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)

The successful completion of the Reengagement and Reform Support Program, and the full
clearance of arrears to IDA in FY13 allowed for the resumption of normalized relations between
Myanmar and the World Bank Group. Subsequently, a number of Investment Project Financing
projects were prepared in FY14 (on energy, telecommunications and public finance management)
as provided for under the ISN 4. This in turn has allowed for the movement towards a full country
engagement under a new Country Partnership Framework (to be prepared in FY15), informed by
a Systematic Country Diagnostic (on which work commenced in FY14). The Reengagement and
Reform Program Support Program also had a strong signaling effect and set the stage for bilateral
creditors to clear their arrears.

Future plans are for the establishment of a programmatic series of development policy loans to
provide a platform for policy dialogue with the authorities in support of Myanmar’s medium term
reform program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The operation was prepared at a time when the authorities were reaching out to the international
community for support in the implementation of Myanmar’s economic and social reform program.
The DPO provided support to key areas of this reform program and by providing for the full
clearance of arrears to IDA allowed for the resumption of a full WBG country program aligned
with and in support of the government’s medium term strategy. Similarly, the operation has
formed a core part of efforts by the WBG to achieve the ISN goals of paving the way for
normalized relations with Myanmar, building confidence in the reform program, and in
supporting the establishment of modernized institutions. Finally the strong focus of the operation
on preparing the ground for sustained economic growth, improving the quality of public spending
(including on health and education), and through the implementation of investment climate
policies that will lead to the creation of jobs, has collectively helped contribute towards the
achievement of the WBG twin goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity.

The clearance of arrears to IDA has paved the way for an enlarged WBG engagement in
Myanmar, resulting in a scale up of IDA lending during the ISN period, growth in WBG non-
lending activities and an expanded country presence. Similarly, the preparation of a SCD is laying
the foundation for much enlarged WBG country program under a new Country Partnership
Framework (CPF) from FY15.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The overall expected result at the end of the program period was full clearance of arrears to IDA,
therefore allowing the resumption of normalized relations between Myanmar and the WBG. The
program was approved by the World Bank board of executive directors on January 22, 2013.
Subsequently, the Government of Myanmar repaid arrears to IDA totaling US$ 419,604,593.81
on January 25, 2013 with financing from a bridge loan provided by the Government of Japan. On


4
  The IDA pipeline in Myanmar continues to grow, and at the time of ICR preparation further operations are planned
for delivery in FY15 on health, education, agriculture and river basin management.

                                                        7
the same day, IDA disbursed a credit for an equivalent amount to the Government of Myanmar to
repay the bridge loan, and the remaining balance of the DPO was cancelled.

As of January 25, 2013 Myanmar was no longer in arrears to IDA, the suspension of
disbursements was lifted and credits restored to accrual status. Thus, the primary PDO outcome
indicator for the operation was unambiguously achieved, just three months after the concept note
for the operation was discussed.

The framework for the Reengagement and Reform Support Program, provided for three main
policy areas – strengthening macroeconomic stability, improving public financial management,
and improving the investment climate – each with a series of related reform objectives, as
illustrated below.

     Main policy areas                    Reform objectives
                                       Laying the foundations for improved monetary policy through
                                       development of the modern financial system
    Strengthening
    macroeconomic                      Improving exchange rate policy
    stability
                                       Instituting fiscal discipline


                                       Improving tax policy and administration

    Improving public
    financial                          Improving budget planning and preparation
    management

                                       Enhancing transparency, accountability, and strengthening external
                                       oversight in the management of public finances
                                       Improving access to finance

                                       Improving the financial sector infrastructure to facilitate business
    Improving the                      transactions
    investment climate
                                       Reducing barriers for foreign investments


                                       Removing barriers to trade



Strengthening macroeconomic stability. The expected outcomes under the first policy area were
that the authorities would, by the end of the program, have undertaken critical actions for
improving exchange rate policy and fiscal discipline, leading to: (i) a more efficient foreign
exchange market evidenced by a reduction in the margin between the official and parallel market
exchange rate; and (ii) a reduction in the budget deficit-to-GDP ratio.

Policies underpinning the DPO included the enactment of a new Foreign Exchange Management
Law and the introduction of a managed float system of exchange rate determination (Prior Action
#1). This resulted in almost complete elimination of the margin between the official and parallel
exchange rates from a baseline value of 5.0 percent, to an estimated 0.2 percent in the following
year. The dismantling of Myanmar’s previous system of fixed, multiple exchange rates was an
important part of efforts to reduce damaging distortions in the economy. Reform efforts in this
area have continued, including crucially the establishment of an independent Central Bank in July


                                                  8
2013 (previously the Central Bank was under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance), as part
of efforts to strengthen the credibility of monetary policy.

Similarly, the introduction of a limit on borrowing in the Union Budget Law for Fiscal Year
2012/13 (Prior Action #2) resulted in a sharply reduced budget deficit down from a baseline
deficit of 6.0 percent of GDP in FY2011/12 to 3.7 percent of GDP in FY2012/13. Instituting
fiscal discipline is an important part of efforts to establish a more stable macroeconomic
environment. Government subsequently adopted a budget deficit ceiling of 5 percent of GDP.
Nevertheless, continued efforts will be required to further improve macroeconomic management
and stability, not least of which will be to reduce the budgetary dependence of State Economic
Enterprises on government accounts.

Improving public financial management. The expected outcomes under the second policy area
were that by the end of the program period, the authorities would have undertaken critical policy
actions to increase actual budgetary allocations and expenditures on health and education, and
increase overall transparency in the budget process.

Increased allocations to education and health in the FY2012/13 budget (Prior Action #3) resulted
in sharply increased actual expenditures on these two sectors, both of which had been neglected
over a sustained period of time during Myanmar’s isolation. Actual nominal expenditures on
education are estimated to have more than doubled over the program period (from 310 billion
kyats in 2011/12 to 764 billion kyats in 2012/13). Similarly, actual nominal public expenditures
on health are estimated to have quadrupled over the same program period (from 92 billion kyats
in 2011/12 to 400 billion kyats in 2012/13). This is an important first step towards efforts to make
the budget more inclusive and to show the results of Myanmar’s transition in a tangible way.
However, increases in social expenditures will need to be sustained over a prolonged period and
be accompanied by further sectoral reforms if changes in higher level social outcome indicators in
the health and education sectors are expected to be achieved. Similarly, experience from other
countries suggests that outcome indicators among more remote communities, particularly ethnic
minorities and disadvantaged groups, can be slow to respond to increases in public spending if
such increases are not accompanied by more targeted policies.

The publication of the Union Budget Law in the local press (Prior Action #4) was also an
important part of efforts to improve transparency in the budget process and went beyond previous
and more restricted publication in the official gazette. However, further efforts will be required
including through stronger legislation to enforce continued disclosure and through the adoption of
international standards, such as under the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, on
disclosure of the proceeds from Myanmar’s natural resource endowments.

Improving the investment climate. The expected outcomes under the third and final policy area
were that reforms to improve access to finance and reduce barriers to business entry and trading
across borders would contribute towards an expansion in bank credit to unbanked men and
women based on a wider range of collateral, an increase in foreign direct investment, and an
increase in the volume of international trade.

Reforms underpinning the DPO included changes by the Central Bank of Myanmar to the forms
of collateral that commercial banks are permitted to accept a wider range of forms of collateral
(Prior Action #5). Allowing the use of non-traditional collateral beyond property, including gold,
exportable crops and a number of type of guarantees, was an important part of efforts to expand
access to finance in Myanmar. Annual growth in credit to the domestic private sector grew at 49.9
percent in FY2012/13, substantially in excess of the target benchmark set in the program

                                                 9
document of above 20 percent year on year growth. Continued reform efforts are underway with
the preparation of a new modernized Financial Institutions Law (being drafted with support from
the World Bank).

The enactment of a new Foreign Investment Law (Prior Action #6) in 2012 added clarity to the
sectors eligible for foreign investment, with greater detail provided on how investments should be
structured and licensed, and what investors should expect from the state. This was an important
step towards attracting higher quality foreign direct investment (FDI) in the key sectors that are
critical to the development of Myanmar’s economy, but deeper efforts will be required to reduce
the actual costs of doing business and ensure that a more predictable and transparent business
enabling environment is put in place. Follow on efforts are now being undertaken to merge the
Foreign Investment Law with the Myanmar Citizens Investment Law into a unified investment
law. Similarly, institutional strengthening will be required including efforts to establish an
independent investment promotion agency. FDI increased strongly during the program from
US$ 2.0 billion in 2011/12 to US$ 2.8 billion in 2012/13, in excess of the target intermediate
outcome indicator.

The abolition of the export first policy on access to foreign exchange for importers (Prior Action
#6), which previously restricted foreign exchange for the purchase of imports to firms that earned
foreign exchange through exports, was similarly an important part of efforts to remove distortions
in the economy that acted as barriers to increased trade competitiveness. As with foreign
investment, substantial further efforts will be required to close the gap between Myanmar’s
current regulatory framework for trade and that seen in comparable ASEAN economies. Reform
efforts have continued with reductions in the number of products subject to export and import
licenses. Further identification of critical trade reforms will emerge from the Diagnostic Trade
and Integration Study (DTIS) exercise that Myanmar is commencing in 2014 (with support from
the World Bank). Estimates of foreign trade (the sum of imports and exports), show growth in
response to reforms over the program period with total trade increasing from US$ 20.7 billion in
2011.12 to US$ 22.8 billion in 2012/13 according to IMF estimates (the rate of increase is slower
according to government data).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating is judged to be Highly Satisfactory given the strong relevance to the
authorities of the program supported by the DPO, the strong ownership exercised by the
government throughout its reengagement process, the successful clearance of arrears to IDA
allowing for a full resumption of a country partnership between Myanmar and the WBG, and due
to positive results achieved across all outcome indicators.

The complex operation was designed and delivered quickly despite the need to work with a
government that was not used to dealing with the international community, and with a bridge
financier (Japan) that was playing this role for the first time. The operation successfully set the
stage for full reengagement by the World Bank Group. The policy reforms have also been
sustained.

Arrears clearance with IDA was followed by the development of a track record of good
macroeconomic management and completion of the SMP with the IMF that further set the stage
for bilateral arrears clearance in 2014. While the overall risks ahead remain moderate, not least
those associated with managing the continued transition to democratic governance, the

                                                10
Reengagement and Reform Support Program was clearly a landmark operation that played a key
part in the commencement of Myanmar’s renewed economic and social development path.
Furthermore, arrears clearance created the space for the international community to support the
reform program, partially mitigating the risk of backsliding.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Research suggests that after a long period of isolation, households in Myanmar are highly
vulnerable to the effects of economic and environmental shocks, and have limited tools and
coping strategies available to manage the impact of risks. Using a different methodology for
estimating the poverty line (including a more comprehensive measure of welfare that captures
health costs and expenditure on durables), new estimates show that Myanmar’s headcount
poverty rate is significantly higher than the 25.6 percent originally reported. However, despite the
high poverty rate, a comparatively low Gini index suggests that income is not especially
unequally distributed in Myanmar.

   Figure 1: Poverty Headcount (2009/10)                  Figure 2: Gini Index (2009/10)




Source: World Bank staff estimates

Implementation of the reform program supported by the DPO should have beneficial effects on
the poor by helping to establish a more stable macroeconomic environment with reduced inflation
and interest rates. Similarly, the prior actions on public financial management resulted in sharply
higher public spending on health and education, indeed considerably higher than expected at the
time of preparation, in two areas that are likely to directly benefit the poor and where Myanmar
has previously lagged well behind peers.

Finally, a more open investment environment with increased credit flowing to the domestic
private sector and increased foreign investment and trade should all contribute to a higher rate of
job creation for all. The share of domestic credit flowing to the private sector remains very low in
Myanmar compared to similar countries. However, experience from other countries suggests that
women often benefit disproportionately from eased access to credit when formal access to finance
constraints are lifted, and from employment generation arising from foreign investment,
particularly in sectors such as garments, footwear and tourism where Myanmar has high potential
for development.


                                                11
However, none of these gains are automatic and further efforts will be required to ensure
sustainable implementation of policies and continued focus on ensuring that the disadvantaged
groups, including the poor, women and ethnic minorities, are able to access improved public
services and benefit from the opportunities provided by more stable and faster growing economy.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

A key objective of the DPO was to contribute towards the establishment of stronger institutions
for macroeconomic management, and to help Myanmar lay the foundations for sustained growth
and shared prosperity. Longer-term capacity and institutional development will take considerable
time, and will require deep capacity building investment through vehicles such as the Public
Financial Management Modernization Project approved by the IDA Board in early 2014.
Nevertheless, incremental gains in institutional strengthening were made during the course of the
program, with key policy steps taken to establish strong regulatory frameworks in particular for
fiscal and monetary policy.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The operation had a number of positive impacts that were not initially foreseen. The shared
challenges associated with addressing the build-up of arrears facilitated a coordinated approach
between IDA and ADB. Experience was also gained through working towards arrears clearance
in cooperation with the Government of Japan, which provided the bridge financing (the first time
that Japan has provided a bridge loan to support arrears clearance to a multilateral development
bank). Similarly the weak underlying knowledge base on macroeconomic issues resulted in a
joint approach by the Bank and IMF in engaging in shared policy dialogue on macroeconomic
and structural issues.

In addition, at a time of rapid reengagement with a multitude of development partners, the
preparation of the DPO played a key role in improving inter-agency coordination across
government agencies on issues associated with macroeconomic stability, public financial
management and regulation of the investment climate.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A meeting was undertaken with key government stakeholders involved in the Reengagement and
Reform Support Program to solicit post operation feedback and contributions to the ICR process.
In broad terms the authorities concurred that the DPO provided policy support during a period of
substantial and fast paced reforms, and that the full clearance of arrears to both IDA and the ADB
was a critical step in Myanmar’s development process.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

While performance of the operation was strong with progress recorded across all outcome
indicators, Myanmar remains in the early stages of its transition. Institutions remain fragile and
the country continues to face key distributional and political challenges. Evidence from other
post-conflict environments suggest that gains can be easily reversed. Hence there are continued
risks to the development outcomes of the operation. The sustained progress for more than a year
and the growing involvement of the international community mitigates the risk of backsliding on
the reform program, notwithstanding the overall political risks.

                                               12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The operation was prepared in record time in response to a brief window of opportunity to
reengage with Myanmar as the country sought external assistance in support of its reform
program. The team quickly established a strong working partnership with the authorities across a
range of technical issues and agencies, at a time when the existence of arrears directly constrained
the depth of engagement. A large team was mustered from across the WBG which worked hard to
prepare a DPO that would rapidly address the need to clear arrears to IDA and play a key part in
supporting Myanmar’s embryonic reform program at a critical time. The challenges were
enlarged by the lack of previous engagement by the Bank, and therefore the size of the gaps in
knowledge and understanding of the country specific macroeconomic and policy framework that
needed to be closed as part of project preparation. Additional complicating factors included the
complex nature of the planned arrears clearance transaction, the mutual dependency between the
IDA credit and the bridge loan used to clear the arrears, the need for two operational policy
waivers and the high visibility of the DPO.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

As a standalone, single-tranche operation, supervision is not a significant part of the operation.
The role of the Bank in supervision focused on ensuring the adequacy of the macroeconomic
framework for a budget support operation and supervising the release and disbursement of the
credit as part of a complex triangular transaction where arrears to IDA were cleared via a bridge
loan, subsequently repaid with the proceeds of the DPO. The highly complex transaction was
smoothly and efficiently handled under an extremely short timeline. Monitoring of the results
indicators took place as part of regular economic policy dialogue with the authorities, preparation
of new projects, and in carrying out analytical work, such as the PER.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

This was a complex operation that required close and intensive collaboration with the Bank, with
a bridge financier (Japan) that had never played this role before, and a counterpart that had not
engaged with the Bank for years. The Bank performed very well and the successful preparation
and implementation of the operation produced highly desirable outcomes, providing support to
the government’s economic and social reform program at a critical time and leading to the full
clearance of arrears to IDA and a resumption of a full WBG engagement in Myanmar. The DPO
was prepared in a timely fashion with strong ownership by the government throughout the
process. The operation was selected for an East Asia Vice Presidential Unit award in 2014 and
merits and overall Highly Satisfactory rating.



                                                13
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The reform program supported under the DPO involved the participation of a number agencies,
including the Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank of Myanmar, the
Ministry of Commerce and the Directorate of Investment and Company Registration within the
Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development. Performance across the various
agencies was highly satisfactory given the tight timelines involved and the preparation of the
DPO played a useful role in facilitating inter-agency policy coordination. The government also
displayed a commitment to the arrears clearance process at the highest level to get parliamentary
approval and clearances of the required processes in a short period of time. In addition, the
government agreed to the SMP and successfully completed it, leading to complete bilateral
arrears clearance. This was a key step to ensure that the broader development objectives of the
operation were met.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The primary agency responsible for coordination during the preparation and implementation of
the operation was the Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance. The department exercised
strong leadership throughout the arrears clearance exercise and is considered to have performed at
a highly satisfactory level, especially so given the lack of prior experience working with the Bank
as a result of prolonged disengagement with the WBG. The technical process of reconciling
arrears not just with IDA but other creditors can be time consuming because reaching agreement
on the arrears due and debt stocks is difficult in a situation where the debt has not been services
for decades, and there has been little communication between the creditors and the borrower.
With very little capacity, the Budget Department had maintained excellent records all through the
years of sanctions to allow speedy reconciliation. The Budget Department then played a critical
role in coordinating all other aspects to ensure delivery.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The government was fully committed to and extended strong ownership over its reform program.
The DPO contributed to Myanmar’s critical reform program during a period of rapid change, and
the full clearance of arrears to IDA involved a number of complex challenges that were
satisfactorily addressed. As discussed above, the combination of high level commitment, as well
as high quality performance under difficult circumstances and low capacity all suggest a rating of
Highly Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The successful implementation of the Reengagement and Reform Support Program provides
useful lessons learned for other cases where the WBG is seeking to reengage after a prolonged
period of absence, and where arrears to IDA present a barrier to a fuller country program.


                                                14
Successfully implementing such a complex operation requires a heavy commitment to
coordination within the Bank, with the bridge financier and government. A very systematic
approach to keeping everyone informed in writing of the various steps and attention to detail paid
off in the end. One lesson has already been implemented – the task team realized it would be
useful to have the various steps towards arrears clearance documented. Such a document has been
prepared, and should be helpful for teams in the future.

The client’s lack of familiarity with the Bank required that significant time was needed in
walking the client through the process, and having a staff member close at hand and available was
critical. In future reengagement cases, it might be useful to ensure that a decentralized task team
leader is available for the government.

With just one year from concept note to closing date, limited conclusions can be drawn on the
longer term impact of the operation. However, the operation clearly met its objectives of
supporting the beginnings of Myanmar’s reforms process, and the settlement of arrears to IDA
has allowed for the resumption of a full country partnership between Myanmar and the World
Bank Group. The clearance of arrears was the primary goal of the operation and was clearly and
unambiguously achieved. Expected outcomes have been met across all intermediate result areas,
but similarly it will be appropriate to reevaluate continued progress over a longer period of time.

While there are continued positive signs that Myanmar’s reform process and the move towards
reengagement with the international community is producing dividends, lessons from other post
conflict environments suggest that the risks of backsliding are very real.

The reengagement of development partners, including the WBG, with the authorities in Myanmar
also exposed the immense coordination challenges that government faced, and continues to face,
in effectively and efficiently managing the receipt of development assistance. There is no easy
solution to this challenge, but a generalized willingness among development partners to pool
resources and approaches in order to reduce aid transactions costs, including via a shared program
of prior actions under the Reengagement and Reform Support Program is notable.

The urgent necessity of clearing arrears to IDA dictated the choice of instrument, and in particular
the use of a single-tranche standalone DPO. This imposed limitations on the effectiveness of the
instrument as a platform for sustained policy dialogue. However, clearly a balance needed to be
struck at the time of preparation between responding efficiently to the emergence of a limited
window of opportunity, versus establishing a longer term platform for policy dialogue in support
of Myanmar’s nascent reform program. Thus the next and logical step would be for the
preparation of a programmatic DPO series that might provide a more effective mechanism for
engaging with the authorities on macroeconomic policy dialogue over a longer, multi-year reform
period.

Finally, key lessons were learned and documented from the Reengagement and Reform Support
Program on the structuring of an arrears clearance linked DPO for future teams working on such
operations.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

The content of the draft ICR was discussed with a range of stakeholders involved in the
preparation of the Reengagement and Reform Support during a consultative meeting in April

                                                15
2014. This provided the an opportunity for the Bank and government teams to exchange views on
the relevance and impact of the operation, review performance and assess lessons learned.
Subsequently the draft ICR document was shared with the government counterparts for review
and comment. At the time of approval of the ICR, comments had not yet been received.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

The draft ICR was shared with ADB, which expressed concurrence with the findings and
outcomes of the operation. The ADB also emphasized the close partnership established between
IDA and ADB during the arrears clearance process, and the high level of coordination and joint
missions. The ADB also concurred that the reform program in Myanmar has been sustained, but
also noted the ongoing risks associated with Myanmar’s fragile institutions.




                                             16
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task team members

                                                                              Responsibility/
         Names                             Title                     Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Khwima Nthara             Senior Country Economist                 EASPT Task Team Leader
Douglas Addison           Senior Economist                         EASPW
Manuela Adl               Division Manager                         CTRLN
Ratchada Anantavrasilpa   Senior Financial Sector Specialist       EASFP
Antonella Bassani         Director                                 CFPIR
William Battaile          Senior Economist                         PRMED
Carlos Cavalcanti         Senior Economist                         PRMED
Tasanee Chokwatana        Senior Executive Assistant               EACTF
Vinay Chugh               Financial Officer                        CTRNC
Doris Chung               Temporary                                EAPCE
Christopher Fabling       Senior Financial Management Specialist   EASFM
Sudarshan Gooptu          Sector Manager                           PRMED
Noppakwan Inthapan        Team Assistant                           EACTF
Maria Ionata              Country Program Coordinator              EACSQ
Saswata Jana              Financial Officer                        CTRNC
Luc Lecuit                Operations Adviser                       SARDE
Angkanee Luangpenthong    Program Assistant                        EACTF
Shabih Mohib              Senior Economist                         EASPT
James Monday              Senior Environmental Engineer            SASDI
Edward Mountfield         Manager                                  OPSPQ
Nikolas Myint             Senior Country Officer                   EACMM
Nataliya Mylenko          Senior Financial Sector Specialist       EASFP
Aristeidis Panou          Consultant                               LEGOP
Vikram Raghavan           Lead Counsel                             LEGOP
James Seward              Lead Financial Sector Specialist         EASFP
Kanthan Shankar           Country Manager                          EACMM
Sudhir Shetty             Sector Director                          EASPR
Anthony Toft              Deputy General Counsel                   LEGVP
Mark Walker               Chief Counsel                            LEGSO
Andrea Woodhouse          Senior Social Development Specialist     EASTS
Angelique dePlaa          Lead Operations Officer                  CFPIR
Supervision
Khwima Nthara             Senior Country Economist                 EASPT    Task Team Leader
Richard Record            Senior Economist                         EASPT    ICR Primary Author
May Thet Zin              Economist                                EASPT
Ivar Andersen             Manager, Operations                      CFPIR    Peer Reviewer




                                              17
(b) Staff time and cost

                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                      USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY13                                        21.9                      151.97
FY14                                         0.0                        4.53
                          Total:            21.9                      156.50
Supervision/ICR
FY14                                         2.1                       22.11
                          Total:             2.1                       22.11




                                       18
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.


Annex 3: Stakeholder Meeting Report and Results

An ICR consultative meeting was undertaken with key stakeholders involved in the preparation
of the Reengagement and Reform Support Program at the Ministry of Finance in Nay Pyi Taw on
April 9, 2014. Participants included representatives from all agencies involved in the program,
including from the Budget Department, Ministry of Finance; Central Bank of Myanmar;
Department of Trade Promotion, Ministry of Commerce; and from the Directorate of Investment
and Company Administration, Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development.

The meeting provided a chance for the World Bank ICR team to present an overview of the ICR
process to stakeholders, to discuss the results framework analysis for the program, and to solicit
feedback from the government on the effectiveness of the program and its contribution to
Myanmar’s reform efforts.

In broad terms the authorities concurred that the DPO provided key policy support during a
period of substantial and fast paced reforms, and that the full clearance of arrears to both IDA and
the ADB was a critical step in Myanmar’s development process.




                                                19
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Not yet received at the time of ICR approval.




                                                20
Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The draft ICR was shared with ADB, which expressed concurrence with the findings and
outcomes of the operation. The ADB also emphasized the close partnership established between
IDA and ADB during the arrears clearance process, and the high level of coordination and joint
missions. The ADB also concurred that the reform program in Myanmar has been sustained, but
also noted the ongoing risks associated with Myanmar’s fragile institutions.




                                             21
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

International Development Association, Program Document for a Proposed Credit to the
Republic of the Union of Myanmar for a Reengagement and Reform Support Credit, Report No.
73899-MM, East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank, December 17, 2012.

International Development Association, Project Appraisal Document for a Proposed Credit and
Grant to the Union of Myanmar for a Modernization of Public Finance Management Project,
Report No. PAD925, East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank, February 25, 2014.

International Development Association, Myanmar – Briefing Note on the Arrears Clearance
Operation, January 2013.

International Development Association and International Finance Corporation, Interim Strategy
Note for the Republic of the Union of Myanmar for the Period FY13-14, Report No. 72458-MM,
East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank, October 30, 2012.

International Monetary Fund, Myanmar – Staff Monitored Program, January 2, 2013.

International Monetary Fund, Myanmar – Article IV Consultation and First Review under the
Staff Monitored Program, IMF Country Report No.13/250, August 2013.

International Monetary Fund, Myanmar – Second Review of the Staff Monitored Program,
Concluding Statement, January 20, 2014.

Asian Development Bank/World Bank, Joint Note on Operational and Legal Elements of
Reengagement in Myanmar, East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank, August, 2012.

World Bank, World Development Report 2011 – Conflict, Security and Development, Washington,
DC, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank, 2011.

World Bank Group, Myanmar Economic Monitor, October 2013.




                                             22
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33452R1
         90°E                                                         95°E                                                                                     100°E
                                                                                                                Hkakabo Razi
                                                                                                                (5,881 m)


                                                                                                           Putao


                                                                      To
                                                                    Jorhat                      Shingbwiyang
                                                                                                                                                                                      MYANMAR
                                                                                                        KACHIN




                                                                             in
                                                                         dw
                                                                                                                Myitkyina




                                                                       in
                                                 To




                                                                     Ch
25°N                                           Jorhat                                                                                                                                                           25°N
                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                     Baoshan

                                                                                                       Bhamo
                                                                                               Katha
                                                            SAGAING
                                                            SAGA ING                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                Namhkam                                   Lincang




                                                                                   Ayeyawady
                                                                                                                              Lashio
                                              Hakha                                                    Hsipaw




                                                                                                                                           Salwee
                                         Ch in
                                                                             Sagaing




                                                                                                                                             n
                                         Hi lls
                                         Hills                                                 Mandalay
                                                                                                                              SHAN
                                       CHIN                        Myingyan

                                                                                                                                                    Kengtung
                                                                      MANDALAY
                                                                                                       Taunggyi               Namsang
                                                                                  Meiktila
                                          A
                                         A




                                                           MAGWAY
                                          ra




                              Sittwe                                                      NAY PYI TAW                                                                                                           20°N
                                              ka




20°N                                                  Magway                              UNION TERR.
                                              n




                                                                                                Pyinmana
                                   RAKHINE                  NAY PYI TAW                                        Loikaw
                                                   Yo m




                                                              Aunglan                                    KAYAH
                                                     ma a




                                         Sandoway                            A
                                                                                                         Da




                                                                                        BAGO
                                                                             ye




                                                                                                           wn
                                                                               yaw




                                                                                                               a
                                                                                  ady




                                                                                                                Ra




                    Bay of
                                                                                                                    ng




                                                                                                   Bago
                                                                                                                          e




                                                  AYEYAWADY                                                                    KAYIN
                   Bengal                         Pathein                                       Yangon
                                                                                                                           Hpa-An

                                                                                               YANGON                      Mawlamyine
                                                                        Pyapon                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                      Bangkok
                                                  M
                                                      ou
                                                           th s                           ady
                                                                                                         MON
                                                                  o f t h e Ay e y a w
                                                                                                                    Ye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                15°N
15°N




                                                                                                                        Davei
  90°E
                                                                                    Andaman
                                                                                            TANINTHAYI
                                                                                      Sea
         MYA N M A R
                                                                                                                          go




                                                                                                                                       Mergui
                                                                                                                                  la




                CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                             Gulf of
                                                                                                                   Mergui Archipe




                STATE AND REGION CAPITALS

                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                            Thailand
                RIVERS
                                                              This map was produced by
                                                              the Map Design Unit of The
                MAIN ROADS                                    World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                              colors, denominations and
                RAILROADS                                     any other information shown                                                                                                                       10°N
                                                              on this map do not imply, on                                 Kawthuang                                        0   50    100 150 200 Kilometers
                STATE AND REGION BOUNDARIES                   the part of The World Bank
                                                              Group, any judgment on the
                                                              legal status of any territory,
                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      or any endorsement or                                                                                         0        50     100     150 Miles
                                                              acceptance of such
                                                              boundaries.                                                                                           100°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUGUST 2012
