                 DRAFT PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                             CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                  October 3,2012
                                                                       Report No. AB7160

 Operation Name                      MM-Reengagement and Reform Support Program
 Region                              EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
 Country                             Myanmar
 Sector                              Microfinance (10%);Banking (20%);General finance sector
                                     (30%);General public administration sector (20%);Central
                                     government administration (20%)
 Operation ID                        P133706
 Lending Instrument                  Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND REVENUE
 Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Finance and Revenue

 Date PID Prepared                   September 30, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal         November 1, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board             January 15, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision           Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                     proceed with the preparation of the operation.

       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

In less than two years, a reformist administration has ushered Myanmar on an unprecedented
path of political and economic reforms. Key economic reforms include discussion of the budget
in Parliament for the first time and publication of the budget, adoption of a more liberal
exchange rate policy, relaxation of trade restrictions, rationalization of tax rates, and fiscal
decentralization. Going forward, the Government realizes that a key challenge will be to ensure
that these reforms translate into improved living standards for the majority of the population, and
that gains registered are sustained. Following years of political and economic repression,
Myanmar remains one of the poorest countries in the East Asian region, with an estimated 26
percent of the population still living below the poverty line. Income inequalities given that only a
small proportion of the population benefited under the old system of Government.

In order to deal with these challenges, the Government is seeking to undertake further reforms
and in this endeavor, is seeking the support of the international community in this endeavor.
Considering how far the country has come, the Government’s strong commitment, and the
unprecedented pace and scale of the reform process, a rare window of opportunity exists for the
international community to help ensure that the reforms succeed and are sustained in Myanmar.
It is against this background that the proposed development policy lending support is being
extended. This type of support is consistent with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for
Myanmar and institutional guidelines on a systematic approach to the clearance of arrears. While
risks exist, in Staff’s assessment, they are outweighed by benefits and costs of inaction.


                                                 1
The proposed operation will be a standalone development policy lending (DPL) program aimed
at supporting the full normalization of relations between Myanmar and the World Bank as well
as the Government’s efforts to undertake critical institutional and policy reforms in the
implementation of its medium-term development strategy. The proceeds of the credit will be
used for direct and exclusive reimbursement of a bridge loan extended to clear Myanmar’s
arrears to the International Development Association.

       Proposed Objective(s)

The DPO’s development objectives are two-fold: (i) to support Myanmar’s critical reforms for
strengthening macroeconomic stability, improving public financial management, and creating a
better investment environment for growth, job creation, and poverty reduction; and (ii) facilitate
the clearance of Myanmar’s arrears to IDA, which is required in order to restore normal relations
between Myanmar and the World Bank.

       Preliminary Description

The proposed DPO is a standalone operation whose aim is to support the Government’s medium-
term policy and institutional reform program in three main policy areas: (a) strengthening
macroeconomic stability, where the Government seeks to improving exchange rate policy
through the passage of a foreign exchange management law and the floatation of the local
currency, instituting fiscal discipline by introducing a borrowing limit in the budget law, (b)
improving public financial management, where the Government first seeks to improve budget
preparation by increasing allocations to education and health, while improving budget
transparency through the publication of the budget law; and (c) improving the investment climate
where the focus is on improving access to finance through the passage of a microfinance law,
reducing barriers to entry and the cost of starting and doing business through the re-submission
to parliament of a foreign investment law, and removing barriers to trade through the abolition
of an export first policy for the access of foreign exchange by importers.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

It is expected that the policy and institutional reforms being supported will contribute positively
towards the reduction of poverty. Reforms for ensuring macroeconomic stability are expected to
benefit the poor since one of the key outcomes is reduced inflation. While the floatation of the
exchange rate has the potential of hurting the poor in the short-term as the cost of imported
commodities goes up, other countervailing measures are expected to mitigate this risk, such as
adoption of a tighter monetary policy stance. Further, implementation of policies for ensuring
fiscal discipline is expected to have a dampening effect on inflation.      Similarly, reforms for
improving the public financial management are aimed at improving the quality of spending in
Myanmar, which is expected to benefit the poor. The PFM reforms being supported under the
proposed DPO are aimed at improving the alignment of the budget to poverty reducing priorities
and that there is transparency and accountability in the management of public resources.
Increased allocations to education and health are expected to benefit the poor. Similarly,

                                                2
publication of the budget will ensure that the public is informed about such poverty reducing
allocations so that public officials are held accountable during implementation of the budget.
Finally, reforms for improving investment climate are also expected to be beneficial to the poor
in Myanmar through increased opportunities for self-employment and wage employment.
Increased investment in Myanmar will improve opportunities for self and wage employment.

Environment Aspects

The specific reforms supported by the proposed DPO are not likely to have significant direct
effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources. The first two policy
areas focus on improving macroeconomic and public financial management which would not
have any direct impact on the environment. However, there is a possibility that policy area on
improving the investment climate may have an indirect impact on the environment since some of
the ensuing investments may not be environment friendly. Given that Myanmar is emerging from
international isolation and that capacity in Government remains weak, a big environmental
agenda lies ahead. The Bank will be collaborating with other development partners in providing
TA to Government for dealing with environmental issues.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                            ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                    0
International Development Association (IDA)                                         440
Borrower/Recipient                                                                    0
IBRD                                                                                  0
Others (specify)
                                                                    Total           440

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Khwima Lawrence Nthara
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5778+8323
Fax:
Email: knthara@worldbank.org
Location: Bangkok, Thailand (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Si Si Pyone
Title: Director of Budget, External Debt
Tel: 95-67-410532
Email: sisipyone@gmail.com




                                               3
       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                         4
