                 DRAFT PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                             APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                       November 2, 2012
                                                 Report No. AB7170

 Operation Name                      MM-Reengagement and Reform Support Program
 Region                              EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
 Country                             Myanmar
 Sector                              Microfinance (10%); Banking (20%); General finance sector
                                     (30%); General public administration sector (20%); Central
                                     government administration (20%)
 Operation ID                        P133706
 Lending Instrument                  Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND REVENUE
 Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Finance and Revenue

 Date PID Prepared                   October 19, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal         November 5, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board             January 15, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision           Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                     proceed with the preparation of the operation.

       Country and Sector Background

In less than two years, a reformist administration has ushered Myanmar on an unprecedented
path of political and economic reforms. Key economic reforms include discussion of the budget
in Parliament for the first time and publication of the budget, adoption of a more liberal
exchange rate policy, relaxation of trade restrictions, rationalization of tax rates, and fiscal
decentralization. Going forward, the Government realizes that a key challenge will be to ensure
that these reforms translate into improved living standards for the majority of the population, and
that gains registered are sustained. Following years of political and economic repression,
Myanmar remains one of the poorest countries in the East Asian region, with an estimated 26
percent of the population still living below the poverty line. Income inequalities given that only a
small proportion of the population benefited under the old system of Government.

In order to deal with these challenges, the Government is seeking to undertake further reforms
and in this endeavor, is seeking the support of the international community in this endeavor.
Considering how far the country has come, the Government’s strong commitment, and the
unprecedented pace and scale of the reform process, a rare window of opportunity exists for the
international community to help ensure that the reforms succeed and are sustained in Myanmar.
It is against this background that the proposed development policy lending support is being
extended. This type of support is consistent with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for
Myanmar and institutional guidelines on a systematic approach to the clearance of arrears. While
risks exist, in Staff’s assessment, they are outweighed by benefits and costs of inaction.


                                                 1
The proposed operation will be a standalone development policy lending (DPL) program aimed
at supporting the full normalization of relations between Myanmar and the World Bank as well
as the Government’s efforts to undertake critical institutional and policy reforms in the
implementation of its medium-term development strategy. The proceeds of the credit will be
used for direct and exclusive reimbursement of a bridge loan extended to clear Myanmar’s
arrears to the International Development Association.

       Proposed Objective(s)

The DPO’s development objectives are two-fold: (i) to support Myanmar’s critical reforms for
strengthening macroeconomic stability, improving public financial management, and improving
the investment climate, which will in turn help grow the economy, create jobs, and reduce
poverty; and (ii) to facilitate the clearance of Myanmar’s arrears to IDA, which is required in
order to restore normal relations between Myanmar and the World Bank.

       Rationale for Bank Involvement

The rationale for Bank involvement through the proposed DPO is that it is critical to the
implementation of the Bank’s interim strategy for Myanmar. The strategy has been prepared to
support re-engagement with Myanmar as the country goes through a triple transition – from an
authoritarian military system to democratic governance, from a centrally-directed economy to
market-oriented reforms, and from conflict to peace in the border areas. The proposed operation
is explicitly provided for in the ISN and is consistent with all its three pillars as follows: by
supporting critical institutional and policy reforms as outlined above, the operation is consistent
with the pillar on supporting government’s efforts to transform institutions so that they can
deliver for citizens. Furthermore, by supporting critical reforms, public services will improve
while jobs will be created as foreign and domestic investment expand, all of which are critical to
building confidence in the ongoing reform process, which is the second pillar of the ISN.
Finally, by providing funds that will be used to repay a bridge loan extended to Government for
clearing arrears to IDA, the DPO will be supporting the third pillar of the ISN, which is on
preparing the way for the resumption of a full country program. In this context, adequate funding
for the operation will be available because Myanmar receives a high IDA allocation as a
reengaging country.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                               ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                       0
International Development Association (IDA)                                            440
Borrower/Recipient                                                                       0
IBRD                                                                                     0
Others
                                                                       Total          440

       Tranches – Not applicable

                                                                                      ($m.)
                                                 2
First Tranche
Second Tranche
Etc.
Total

       Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

Implementation of this operation is being coordinated by the Union Ministry of Finance and
Revenue. However, the actual implementation of the DPO supported reforms will be done by
relevant government ministries, departments, and agencies that are mandated to carry out the
respective reforms. Each agency has a focal person who is responsible for mobilizing fellow
Government officials for meetings and for compiling information and documentation required
for the DPO supported program.

Monitoring and evaluation of the reform program will be undertaken jointly by the Bank and
Government teams. The teams will meet occasionally to monitor progress in implementing the
reform program supported by the operation. Apart from the policy and institutional reforms to be
implemented by the Government, an M&E framework has also been developed. The framework
describes expected outcomes at the end of the program, the monitoring indicators and specific
end of program targets. A Bank evaluation mission will be fielded after one year to assess if the
program outcomes have been achieved.

       Risks and Mitigation

Potentially, the program faces three main types of risks. The first is macroeconomic emanating
from the fact that a suboptimal sequence of reforms could lead to deterioration in the
macroeconomic framework due to the significant changes that are being implemented in a context of
limited capacity. For example, a modern monetary policy framework is still being designed as is
the treasury function. Natural gas prices can be volatile and a shock to world natural gas price
could be destabilizing given the importance of gas exports for Myanmar’s balance of payments.
A mitigating factor here is that Myanmar’s natural gas exports are under long term contracts with
the price determined by a complex formula that should smooth volatility. Finally, as the
economy opens up, a surge in imports as well as capital inflows from portfolio as well as foreign
direct investment pose a risk to the country’s macroeconomic program, unless they are properly
managed. To mitigate these risks, the World Bank will work with the IMF in providing the
required TA for establishing a robust framework for macroeconomic management.

The second type of risk to the program is political. Although a number of ceasefire agreements
have been signed with armed rebel groups, political settlements are yet to be attained.
Furthermore, a ceasefire agreement is yet to be reached with one of the armed groups, the Kachin
Independence Organization (KIO). Therefore, a return to wide-scale conflict or an escalation of
the conflict in Kachin could destabilize the existing political environment. Second, reforms are
still in their early days. Myanmar’s future depends on the nature of compromises reached between
multiple stakeholders with often incompatible interests. There is a risk of a backlash especially if
some well-intentioned reforms end up having negative consequences in the short-term. The 2015
elections are shaping up to be an important turning point for the longer term sustainability of the
reforms. To mitigate these risks, the World Bank will be working to support various initiatives in

                                                 3
Government for consolidating peace and the reform process, including through support to the
planned Peace Center, supporting community based projects that will generate quick tangible peace
dividends in conflict-affected areas, and support to institution building so that reforms transcend
personalities.

The third and final category of risk is in relation to implementation capacity. Following a long
period of underinvestment in public institutions, education and the civil service, there is a
concern that institutional capacity will be a binding constraint in implementing the reforms and
improving service delivery so that the benefits of reforms are distributed widely. While donor
support is a mitigating mechanism for the lack of institutional capacity, there is an additional risk
that aid will not be coordinated and will thus not have the desired impact. These risks can be
mitigated by donors actively seeking to scale up support to address the capacity issues, while the
Government takes the lead in actively managing donor support. It will be important that non-
traditional donors are also brought into the process. The Government has recognized the
importance of donor coordination and set up a high level Foreign Aid Management Coordination
Committee to manage the coordination of aid.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

The specific prior actions for strengthening macroeconomic stability are expected to benefit the
poor, both men and women, through reduced inflation and interest rates. The passage of the
exchange rate management law provides a robust framework for the management of exchange
rate policy. Further, implementation of policies for ensuring fiscal discipline, such as inclusion of
a borrowing limit in the budget law is expected to have a dampening effect on inflation.
Similarly, the prior actions under the policy area on improving the public financial management
are aimed at improving the quality of spending in Myanmar, which is expected to benefit the
poor. Increased allocations to education and health are usually expected to benefit the poor,
especially if allocated to primary education and health. The publication of the budget is expected
to ensure that citizens are informed about resources mobilized by Government and how they are
eventually utilized through the budget to meet their development needs. Finally, the prior
actions under improving the investment climate are also expected to be beneficial to the poor in
Myanmar through increased opportunities for self-employment and wage employment. In
particular, the fact that commercial banks are now allowed to accept new forms of collateral will
increase credit access, especially to poor men and women who rely on microloans. Once passed,
the Foreign Investment Law and the abolition of the “export first? policy for access to foreign
exchange by importers are expected to boost economic activities in the country. This will result
in the creation of more job opportunities for the poor. Given Myanmar’s potential in the garment
sector, women are expected to benefit even more from new investments since the sector tends to
employ relatively more women than men, especially in the shop floors.
Environment Aspects

The specific reforms supported by the proposed DPO are not likely to have significant direct
effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources. The first two policy
areas focus on improving macroeconomic and public financial management which would not

                                                 4
have any direct impact on the environment. However, there is a possibility that policy area on
improving the investment climate may have an indirect impact on the environment since some of
the ensuing investments may not be environment friendly. Given that Myanmar is emerging from
international isolation and that capacity in Government remains weak, a big environmental
agenda lies ahead. Some of the development partners are providing TA to Government for
strengthening environmental governance, more broadly, in Myanmar.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                          ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                  0
International Development Association (IDA)                                       440
Borrower/Recipient                                                                  0
IBRD                                                                                0
Others (specify)
                                                                   Total          440

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Khwima Nthara
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5778+8323
Fax:
Email: knthara@worldbank.org
Location: Bangkok, Thailand (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Si Si Pyone
Title: Director of Budget, External Debt
Tel: 95-67-410532
Email: sisipyone@gmail.com

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                              5
