N.I OFMCIAL
REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF
January 22, 2013
International Development Associatior
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Re:    Credit No. 5197-MM'
Reengagement and Reform Support Credit
Section 5.01 of the General Conditions
Financial and Economic Data
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
In connection with the Financing Agreement (Financing Agreement) of this date between the
Republic of the Union of Myanmar (Member Country) and International Development Association
(Association) providing financing (Financing)for the above-captioned Project, and the General Conditions
(General Conditions) made applicable :o the Financing Agreement, I am writing on behalf of the Member
Country to set forth the following:
1.     We understand and agree th.t, fcr purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, the
Member Country is required by the As ;ociation:
(a)    to report long-term externil debt (as defined in the World Bank s Debtor Reporting System
Manual, dated January 20)0 (DRSM)), in accordance with the DRSM, and in particular, to
notify the Association of r ew loan commitments (as defined in the DRSM) not later than 30
days after the end of the quarter during which the debt is incurred, and to notify the
Association of transactions under loans (as defined in the DRSM) once a year, not later than
March 31 of the year following the year covered by the report; and
(b)    to: (i) notify tLe Associat on at least three months prior to incurring any non-concessional
long-term external debt, o its intention to incur such debt, together with the proposed terms
of such debt; and (ii) affo -d the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Member Country on the matter. For purposes of this paragraph, non-concessional long-
term external clebt means any long-term external debt (as defined in thirds), but excluding
private debt (as so definec.), with an estimated grant element (GE) calculated in the manner
published from time to time by the Association (see, www.worldbank.ora/idaunder reports )
of less than (i) 35% or (ii) the GE for determining concessionality established by the
International Monetary FLnd ii any Extended Credit Facility arrangement, Standby Credit
Facility or Policy Support Instrument with the Member Country in effect at the time of such
notice, whiohever is higher.
2.     We represent that no defaults exist in respect of any external debt (as defined in the DRSM). It is
our understanding that, in making the Financing, the Association may rely on the representations set forth
or referred to in this letter.


﻿3.     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by having a duly authorized representative of the
Assockiion sign in the space provided below.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC DF THE UNION OF MYA
Au.horized Representative
AGREED:
INTERNJATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By:
Authorized Representative


