Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c-p- l8Uz-sW
Report No. 6829-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURUNDI
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
November 16, 1987
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a resiricted distribution and may be used bp recipients onlv in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BURUNDI: POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =       Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$ 1.00            =       FBu 126 (November 1987)
FBu 1               -       US$ 0.011
MEASUREMENTS
1 Meter             =       3.28 Feet
1 Kilometer         =       0.62 Mile
1 Square Kilometer          0.39 Square Mile
1 Hectare           -       2.47 Acres
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI - FISCAL YEAR
January 1st - December 31st
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Burundi in April 1987 and consisted of Dr. J. Baudouy (Bank staff), and Ms.
L. Dunaway, Mrs. M. Lioy, Mr. B. Hubert, Dr. D. Beghin, and Mr. J.-B.
Rasera (Consultants). The report was written by Dr. J. Baudouy, with
contributions from other mission members.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDIt POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                   =    African Developnent Bank
AIDS                   -    Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
BEPES                  =    Bureau d'Etudes Pedagogiques de I'Enseignement
Secondaire
BIP                         Bureau de l'Inspection et de la Planification
BRB                         Bank of the Republic of Burundi (Central Bank)
CCCD                        Combatting Children Communicable Diseases
CHUK                        Centrr Hospitalier Universitaire de Kamenge:
Teaching Hospital
CPR                    =    Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CRS                    -    Catholic Relief Service
CURDES                 =    Centre Universitaire de Recherches pour le
Developpement Economique et Social
EDF                         European Development Fund
EPI                    -    Expanded Program of Immunization
FAC                    -    French Aid and Cooperation Fund (Fonds d'Aide et
de Cooperation)
FAO                    -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FOREAMI                =    Public Health Clinic at Prince Regent Charles
Hospital (Fonds de la Reine Elisabeth pour
l'Assistance Medicale Indigene)
FP                     =    Family Planning
HC                          Health Center
HIS                         Health Information System
HIV                         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HPRC                   -    Hopital Prince Regent Charles (Central
Reference Hospital)
IEC                    =    I-formation, Education, and Communication
IPPF                        International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD                    =    Intrauterine Device
JHPIEGO                =    Johns Hopkins Program for International
Education in Gynecology and Obstetrics
KAP                    =    Knowledge Autitude and Practice (type of survey)
MCIn                        Maternal and Child Health
MOE                    =    Ministry of Education
MOH                    =    Ministry of Health
MOI                         Ministry of Interior
MOP                    -    Ministry of Planning
MSA                         Ministry of Social Affairs
NGO                    =    Non-Governmental Organization
PEP                         Public Expenditure Program
PHG                         Prlmary Health Care
PHN                    =    Population, Health and Nutrition
PIP                         Public Investment Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed arithout World Bank authorization.



BU1TUtDI;  POPULATION ANID HV1ALTH PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONIS
( Cont inuecd)
SDEPS                  -    Sous Direction de 1'Educatron Pour la Sante
SDSMIJPF                     Sous Direction Sante Maternelle et Infantile/
Plan1fication FamilfaJe (MCH/FP Division)
SNES                   =    Service National d'Etuees St-tiritlques
STD                    =    Sexually Transmitted Diseasc
TBA                     -    Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR                    =    Total Fertility Rate
UNDP                   -    United Nations Development Program
UNEPA                   -    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF                       United Nations Children's Fund
UNIPAC                 =    United Nations PackJng and Assembling Center
UPRONA                       National Unity and Progress, the Burundi
Political Party (Unit5 et Progres National)
USAD                   =    United States Agency for International
Development
WHO                          World Health Organization



BUIRUNDIM POPIflT-ION AND HEALTH PROJECT
DEFFINITIONS
Adult L'terz~.cy Rate:           'ihe percentage of persons aged 15 and over
w7ho can read and write.
Case Fatality Rate:              Plercentage of deaths due to a disease among
the total number of peoiole who hiave
contracted the disease.
Child Death Rate:                The number of deaths among children one to
four years of age per 1,000 children in that
age group in a given year.
Contraceptive Prevalence         The percentage of married women in
Rate:                            reproductive ages who are using (or whose
husbands are using) any form of modern
contraception at any given point in time.
Crude Birth Rate:                The number of births per 1,000 population in
a given year.
*         ~~Crude Death Rate:               Thie number of deaths per 1,000 population in
a given year.
Dependency Ratio:                The ratio of the economically dependent part
of the population to the productive part,
arbitrarily defined as the ratio of the young
(under 15 years of age) and the elderly
(those 65 years of age and older) to the
workirg age population (those 15-64 years of
age).
Incidence Rate:                  The number of new cases of a disease which
occur in a population during a specified
period of timie. Usually expressed as the
number of cases per 1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate:           The number of deaths of infants under one
year of age in a given year per 1,000 live
births in that. year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:        The average number of years a newborn would
live if age/sex-specific mortality trends
prevailing at the time of birth were
maintained.



l *
BURUNDI:  POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
DEFINITIONS
(Continued)
Low Birth Weight:              Infant weight at birth less than 2,500 grams.
Matet.aal Mortality Rate:      The number of deaths of women who die due to
pregnancy and childbearing complications in a
given year per 1,000 live births in that
year.
Morbidity Rate:                The frequency of disease in a population in a
given period.
Parity:                        The number of children previously born alive
to a woman.
Prevalence Rate:               The total number of people affected by a
disease estimated either at a specific time
(point prevalence) or over a stated period
(period prevalence) expressed per 1,000
population (in case of low figures,
prevalence is expressed per 100,COO
population).
Rate of Natural Increase:      The rate at which a population is increasing
(or decreasing) in a given year due to a
surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths,
expressed as a percentage of the total
population.
Rate of Population Growth:    The rate of natural increase adjusted for
(net) migration, and expressed as a
percentage of the total population of a given
year.
Stunting:                      A method of assessing a person's nutritional
state, based on the deficit in height-for-age
compared to a reference chart.
Total Fertility Rate:          The average number of children that would be
born alive to a woman during her lifetime if
_he passed through her childbearing years
conforming to the age-specific fertility
rates of a given year.
Wasting:                       A method of assessing a person's nutritional
state, based on the deficit in weight-for-
height compared to a reference chart.



BURUNDI: POPULATION AND HEAL"H PROJECT
BASIC DATA
(All figures apply to 1987 estimates unless otherwise indicated)
General
Total Area                                       27,835 km2
Area (Land Only)                                 25,000 km2
Total Population                                 4.9 million
Current Growth Rate (per annum)                  3.0%
Density per km2                                  180
Total Fertility Rate                             6.2
Crude Birth Rate                                 48 per 1,000
Crude Death Rate                                 18 per 1,000
Life Expectancy at Birth                         47 years
Infant Mortality Rate                            125 per 1,000
Child Death Rate                                 185 per 1,000
Rural Population                                 92%
Adult Literacy Rate                              35%
Primary School Enrollment                       60%
Secondary School Enrollment                     4%
GNP per capita (1985)                           US$ 240
Health
Population per Physician (1986)                 23,000
Population per Nurse (1'386)                     4,800
Population per Hospital Bed (1986)                1,600
Population Wi'.hin Reach of Health Services
(1986)                                        65%
Proportion of Children Fully Immunized (1986)       50%
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (Modern Methods)
(1986)                                       1.6%
MOB Share of Government Recurrent Expenditures
(Average 1978-86)                            5.2%
Daily per capita Calorie Supply (as
percentage of requirements)                  88% (UNICEFIWHO Standards)



BURUNDIt POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTE:.TS.
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ......................... i-i
I.    BACKGROUND ....................                                                   1
A.   Economic and Social Setting ...............................    1
B.   Population, Health and Nutrition Status ..................             ,    2
C.   Population Policy and Activities ......             ....................     6
D.   Health Policy and Services ........            ........................      8
II.   SECTORAL ISSUES AND BANK ROLE ...............   15
A.   Current Major Sector Issues .........              ......................   15
B.  Sector Strategy ................. .                      ,                   16
TIII  THE PROJECT ............   #.*..  ..18
A.  Project Objectives and Design .....                                          18
B.  Summary Description                                 ......                   19
C.  Detailed Project Description...                                              20
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ....................                                  33
A.  Costs ... . ... ..  o... *..       ...... * .. ...           ...             33
B.  Project Affordability ...................................    35
CS.  Financing ......O*..**.....  o....36
D.  Procurement  .............................  37
E.  Disbursement ....."6...........                                              38
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .........                                                 39
A.   Project Preparation   ..   **.. ..39
B.  Organization and Management ....,.,                                          40
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation                                                    42
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .....................  42
A.  Benefits ..........................  **** .... ****.*.. ....                 42
BV .    JustificationMMENDA.IONS ...          .. .*.* . *.*.,                    44
C .  R isks .             4...............                 .                     44
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............45



BURUNDI:  POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(Continued)
Page No.
LIST OF TABLES
1.1   Projected Population Size and Growth  ..................... .....   3
1.2   Educational Indicators      8......... ....    .......... .....*   8
4.1   Project Costs By Expenditure Category and
Accounts Cost Summary ..           ..............................*  34
4.2   Price Contingencies ..   ..............*...................... .  34
4.3   Project Costs By Financing Source............................  36
4.4   Procurement Arrangements . *.... . . . . . * . * * * ..*.........*.*...*.*.....*.*.37
ANNEXES
1 - TABLES
Table 1: Population of Burundi and Density by Province,
1985    Estimates     ..............................4
Table 2: Demographic Projections, 1980-2015............... .....49
Table 3: Prevalence of Child Malnutriton in Burundi
from Selected Surveys. ..... ................... . . 50
Table 4:   Contraceptive prevalence in Burundi,
December               18 .................................... 51
Table 5:   Health Personnel Distribution in Burundi ............ 52
Table 6:   Health Staff Distribution in Hospitals ............... 53
Table 7:   Health Staff Distribution in Health Centers .......... 54
Table 8:   Output from Paramedic Schools, 1982-86, and
projections with the three additional
schools, 1987-91 *.* ...         ... ........    ...... 55
Table 9:   Bed distribution by Facility and Province ............ 56
Table 10:  Total Health Sect r Recurrent
Expenditures, 1986... ............*.......... # ..... 57
Table 11:  List of Proposed Project Facilities ..........           ......... 58-59



BURUNDI: POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEXES
(Continued)
Table 12: Projection of Contraceptive Users,
contraceptive prevalence, and
births   averted .................................. 6
Table 13:  Projection of Contraceptive Method Mix ............... 60
Table 14s Draft Health Sector PIP/PP, 1998-92 ................... 61-62
Table 15: Recurrent Cost Implications of the
Proposed PIP on MOH Recurrent Expenditures  .......... 63
Table 16:  Summary of Technical Assistance..*.*...*#*..........64
KEY PROJECT INDICATORS-o-ooo           ...  .  .... o.... ... .. .65
2 - Summary Account by Project Component. ........... ... ............ ..66
Project Componenits by Year .................................... . 66
3 - Implementation Schedule .......................................69
4 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements....oo ....                   ... 70
5 - Selected Documents in Project File...............................71
CHARTS
1 MOH Organizational Chart  .......           .......... . ...........  72
2  SDEPS Organizational Chart    .        .......................... 73
MAPS
1 Population Density  ........................ ....  74
2  PHC Coverage ... ........... ..... .*.. . ..... 75



BURUNDI: POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECr
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Burundl
Beneficiar:   Ministry of Health (MOH)
Amount:        SDR 11 million (US$ 14.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA Terms
Prolect Description:
(a) Objectives. To: (i) improve Maternal and Child Health (MCH) status
by strengthening nationwide MCH services, including Family Planning
(FP) and Nutrition activities; (ii) increase contraceptive prevalence
to 14% by 1992; (iii) assist in controlling the AIDS epidemic; (iv)
strengthen the institutional capability of the MOH; (v) improve the
financing and efficiency of health services; and (vi) improve the
demographic data base for population policy development and socio-
economic planning.
(b) Components. The project would provide for: (i) the development of
MCH/FP services, through the Primary Health Care (PHC) network
(establishment of a national MCH/FP program, health staff training,
intensified supervision, contraceptive supplies, health center (HC)
rehabilitation, and maintenance); (ii) development of an Information,
Education, and Communication (IEC) program (strengthening the Health
Education Division, material development, health staff training,
audio-visual equipment); (iii) support to the National AIDS Control
Program (staff training, IEC material development, purchase of medical
supplies and laboratory equipment, and operating costs to carry out
control activities); (iv) institutional strengthening of the MOH
(strengthening of key MOH units, staff training, health financing
policy development, operational research and studies, and development
of project management capabilities); and (v) population data
development (financing of additional temporary staff, census materials
development, and seminars to disseminate the census results).
(c) Benefits and Risks. The project would have the following benefits:
(i) approximately one million people living in under-served areas
would have access to a full range of essential PHC services; (ii)
nearly one million women of childbearing age would have access to
effective maternal care and family planning methods; (iii) about
800,000 under-five children would benefit from effective nutrition
services as part of a comprehensive MCH package; (iv) the entire
nation would benefit from the increasing contraceptive prevalence
which would ease the demographic pressure; (v) the spread of AIDS
would be reduced through the support to the National AIDS Control
program; (vi) MOH would benefit from institutional strengthening;
(vii) new sources of health financing would be developed; and (viii)
the population database would be improved and used for population
policy development and socio-economic planning. The main risks relate
to: (i) the limited administrative capacity of the MOH; (ii) the
complexity of the census operation; and (4ii) the lack of experience
in AIDS control.



- it -
BURUNDI:  POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local     Foreign   Total
…US$ million-------
Estimated Costs
Strengthening MCH/FP services             3.55       6.33      9.88
IEC Program Development                  0.53        0.78      1.31
AIDS Cor.trol Program                     1.11       0.87      1.98
Institutional Strengthening              0.66        1.37      2.03
Population Data Development               0.97       0.01      0.98
Project Preparation Facility              0.22       0.57      0.79
Total Baseline Costs              7.04        9.93    16.97
Physical Contingencies            0.20        0.37     0.57
Price Contingencies               0.95        0.25     1.20
TOTAL PROJECT COST It             8.19       10.55    18.74
Financing Plan:
Government of Burundi                     2.92       --        2.92
IDA                                      4.91        9.08    13.99
UNICEF                                    0.36       1.47      1.83
TOTAL                             8.19       10.55    18.74
1/  Inclusive of taxes and duties which are negligible.
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91   FY 92   FY 93
Annual                0.71    2.52    3.07    3.20    2.75    1.75
Cumulative            0.71    3.23    6.30    9.50    12.25  14.00
PROJECT COMPLETION DATE: June 30, 1993
MAPS: IBRD 20605 & 20141



BURUNDI: POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Economic and Social Setting
1.01     Burundi is a small, landlocked East African country with three
principal geographic zones: (a) the coastal plain along the eastern shore
of Lake Tanganyika and the Ruzizi River Valley north of the lake, where the
climate is tropical; (b) the high, cool central plateau region which
contains the Zaire-Nile divide, where the majority of the population lives;
and (c) the eastern lowlands that slope down from the central plateau to
the Tanzanian border. The country's land mass is approximately 25,000 km2,
and, including its share of Lake Tanganyika, Burundi totals 27,835 km2.
1.02     Burundi, once a kingdom, became part of German East Africa in 1883
and was mandated to Belgium after World War I. It became independent in
1962. Christian missionaries have been active since before 1900 and about
75% of the people are Catholic, 10% Protestant, 5% Muslim, and 5% followers
of traditional religions. During the colonial period, religious missions
played an important role in developing the Education and Health sectors.
Currently, they continue to play an important role in health service
delivery (see para. 1.28). The national language is Kirundi, a Bantu
tongue; however, a minority of the people also speak French.
Administratively, the country is divided into 15 provinces, 114 communes,
and approximately 2500 collines (hills). Most of Burundi's population does
not reside in villages, as is typical in Africa, but in rugo (family
compounds).
1.03     With a population density of 180/km2, Burundi is Africa's second
most densely populated country, after its northern neighbor, Rwanda. About
922 of the population lives in rural areas on small subsistence farms (the
average farm contains 0.85 hectare, or two acres) scattered across the
hi.ls. The nation's capital, Bujumbura, is the only relatively large city,
with a population of about 200,000 inhabitants. GNP per capita was about
US$240 in 1985, placing Burundi among the world's poorest countries.
1.04     Burundi's economic development has been hampered by its landlocked
position (Mombasa, the closest port, is 2,000 km away from Bujumbura), its
limited natural resources, its dependence on a fluctuating world coffee
market (coffee represents 80% of export revenues), and the increasing
demographic pressure. In addition, low levels of education and health
status have reduced dramatically the potential of Burundi's human resources
to achieve necessary development goals. GDP growth has averaged 3%
annually (1980-85) in .eal terms--a rate just slightly above the population
growth rate. At the end of 1983, the Government took some adjustment



measures (e.g., depreciation of the Burundian Franc, increase in producer
prices on main exports, and control of public expenditures) which
ameliorated the economic situation to a small extent. In 1985, the
Goverrmnent, with the assistance of the World Bank and IMF, prepared the
first Structural Adjustment Program which was implemented in mid-1986. It
is too early to assess the program's impact, but economic performance in
1986 appeared to have improved, with GDP growth at 4.5%. Furthermore,
political commitment to stronger management of public finances appears to
be increasing.
B. Population, Health and Nutrition Status
1.05     Demographic Characteristics.  The 1979 census enumerated a
population of 4.022 million and the 1987 population is estimated at 4.9
million. Within a general picture of high overall density (see Annex 1,
Table 1), settlement is still strikingly uneven. Nearly half of the
population lives in the three heavily settled north-central highland
provinces of Ngozi, Muramvya, and Gitega, with Bujumbura province
(including the city) accounting for another 11%. Commune population
densities range from 18/km2 (Nyanza Lac in Bururi) to 2,373/km2 (Nyomba in
Ngozi). Significant urban development is confined to the Bujumbura area.
The city grew rapidly during the 1950s and the 1960s, at annual rates of 6-
9%t, but its growth slackened during the 1970s to a current 3-5% per year.
1.06     The dominant flow of internal migration has been from east to west
over the past 20 years. The attractions have been the newly developed
lowlands of the Ruzizi River plain and the lake shore, as well as the
metropolitan development around Bujumbura. In recent years, some movement
into the eastern lowlands has also occurred. However, these internal
migratory movements are not a dominant factor in the demography of the
country and have been far less important thatt international migration. The
outflow is mainly economic in nature: cyclical male labor emigration to
the farms, plantations, and mines of Uganda, Tanzania, and Zaire. No
accurate information is available on the scale of emigration. Immigration
was coming mainly from Zaire, but these inflows have almost stopped.
1.07     Other demographic features of the population are similar to those
of Sub-Saharan African countries in general: a youthful age structure (42%
of the population is under 15 years of age), a declining mortality rate
(rapid decline in the late 1950s and early 1960s, and slo!ier thereafter),
and a high fertility rate (about 6.2 children per woman). The population
is increasing at about 3% per year, absorbing most of the economic growth
of the country and putting pressure on already scarce land resources.
Spatial redistribution of the population and urbanization will not be
enough to ease the population pressure. Massive family planning (FP)
efforts are urgently required: the contraceptive prevalence (for modern
methods) will have to increase from a current 1.6% to about 30% by 2000 in
order to reduce the population growth rate from 3% to 2%.
1.08     Population Growth and Soclo-Economlc Consequences.  Population
projections for the 1985-2015 period have been produced (see Table 1.1
below). All assume continuously declining mortality and zero net



emigration. Three assumptions about trends in fertility have been used:
(a) no fertility declIne with the TFR remaining at the current level of
6.2; (b) gradual fertility decline with the TFR dropping to 4.2 by 2015 and
to replacement levels (2.1) by 2035, and (c) accelerated fertility decline
with the TFR dropping to 3.1 by 2015 and reaching replacement levels by
2025. The gradual decline corresponds to the likely evolution of fertility
rates in relation to economic development, while the rapid decline
represents the possible result of an effective FP program. Major
population growth appears inevitable for Burundi. Under the most
optimistic assumption (rapid fertility decline), the population will almost
double by 2015 and double again in the next 40 years. Under the least
optimistic assumption (no fertility decline), the total population size
will reach 12 million in 2015, representing more than a two-and-a-half fold
increase, and will double again in the following 20 years.
TABLE 1.1:  PROJECTED POPULATION SIZE AND GROWTH
Population (.000)             Crowth Rate Nt
Fortility Assumption   1985   1990   2000   2016   1985-90 1995-2000   2000-16
Constant            4,178   6,486   7,440  12,163    3.01    3.06      3.42
Gradual Decline     4,718   6,486   7,386  10,788    3.01    2.90      2.32
Accelerated Decline    4,718   6,442   6,973   9,290    2.86  2.33     1.77
SOURCE: World Bank Projections, 1987.
1.09     Rapid population growth will continue to constrain the economic
and social development for at least the next 25 years. At the
macroeconomic level, population growth increases costs in investments
needed to maintain capital per head. Such investment is at the expense of
increasing standards of living or of adding to capital per worker, and
thus, to labor productivity. Agzicultural production, for both food and
cash crcps, are key elements in the country's effort to keep up with the
pace of population growth. In order to compensate for the dwindling of
land reserves (75% arable land is already cultivated), increases in
agricultural productivity twill be neetded. Yet, sufficiently rapid
increases are difficult to achieve for the following reasons: (a) the
remaining 25% of arable land is of uncertain quality; (b) population
pressure itself is in some areas already resulting in deforestation,
overgrazing, shortened fallow periods, soil erosion, and, finally, loss of
soil fertility and soil depletion; (c) the potential for improving land
productivity under traditional agricultural technologies is limited since
farmers are already using relatively complex systems (e.g., double
cropping); and (d) the introduction of more modern technologies, such as
use of fertilizers, insecticides and improved seeds is severely hampered by
lack of funds for the necessary investments at both individual farmer and
government levels. In other sectors, population growth, through its demand
on public services such as housing, energy, employment, water supply,
education, and health, places additional constraints on Government
resources (see Annex 1, Table 2). A large scale family planning effort
starting now is critical to lessen the current pressure placed on the
country's social and economic systems.



-4-
1.10     Health Status.  The main sources of data are the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and disease-specific surveys carried out as part of special
programs (e.g., immunization program). Health data are often scanty due to
an obsolete health information system (HIS) which will be strengthened as
part of the proposed project. Health conditions are similar to those
prevalent in Eastern Africa. Life expectancy is around 47 years, infant
mortality is about 125 per 1000, and close to 20% of the children die
before the age of five. No reliable data are available on maternal
mortality (a specific study is planned as part of the project), but it is
assumed to be high since pregnancies are numerous, often closely spaced,
and rarely medically assisted. In Central Africa, maternal mortality
estimates vary from 4 per 1000 live births (UNICEF) to 7 per 1000 (WHO),
and would imply for Burundi that at least 1000 women die every year from
pregnancy and childbearing complications.
1.11     Infectious and parasitic diseases are major causes of morbidity
and mortality among adults and children, where multiple infections are
often present at the same time. Malaria is the most often reported cause
of morbidity (40% of all consultations, but diagnosis is rarely confirmed
by a blood test) and its prevalence varies from 50% in the lowlands (Imbo
region) to 7% in Bujumbura, and close to 0% in the highlands. A matter of
concern is the spreading resistance of Plasmodium falciparum--the
predominant parasite which causes malaria--to chloroquine, the cheapest and
safest treatment currently available. WHO estimates that close to 50% of
the parasite strains are now chloroquine resistant. Adults suffer also
from tuberculosis, schistosomiasis (in irrigated areas), and diarrheal
diseases, including outbreaks of cholera. Women's health problems and
mortality are related to complications during pregnancy and delivery.
Traffic accidents are a leading cause of mortality and disability among
young adults. Major causes of death among under-five children are;
measles (24%), dehydrat'on (15%), tetanus (9%), malaria (5%), acute
respiratory infections (5%), and other conditions readily preventable or
treated by standard maternal and child health (MCH) programs. Protein-
calorie malnutrition contributes to high under-five mortality (see para.
1.13).
1.12     Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are widespread, including the
Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). AIDS is becoming highly
prevalent in Burundi, with national estimates for seropositivityl rates
ranging from 3% in the general population of Bujumbura to 48% in patients
suspected of having the disease. Further investigation is required to
obtain more accurate data. Infection rates appear considerably lower in
rural areas (less than 1%), but may increase rapidly as urban and rural
populations are in frequent contact. The epidemic is spreading through
heterosexual transmission, blood transfusions, is.jections with infected
needles, and from seropositive pregnant women to their children. A
1/Seropositivity means that a test for determining antibodies to the AIDS
virus (Human Immunodeficiency Virus, HIV) in a person's blood is
positive. The presence of these antibodies usually means that a person
has been infected with HIV. A positive test is assumed to indicate
continuing infection. Currently, however, no test can tell whether a
person infected with HIV will develop AIDS or other HIV-related symptoms.



-5-
national committee has been set up by MOH and a proposal for a control
program has been prepared with WHO technical support. The Government is
seeking donor financing for the program. The EEC has already committed
some funding to start up activities, but a comprehensive donor effort is
needed to carry out the entire program. AIDS represents a major public
health problem which will have a serious impact on mortality (children and
young adults) within a few years. Preventive measures as follows are
urgently needed: (a) systematic blood donor screening; (b) adequate
sterilization of needles; (c) promotion and use of condoms; and (d) health
education on a large scale.
1.13     Nutrition Status.  The average calor.'  intake per capita
represents about 100% of the FAO standards (2,200 calories per capita per
day), but only 88% of the WHO/UNICEF standards (2,500 calories per capita
per day). In any case, the lipid intake is grossly deficient (44% of FAO
standards). This is due to a diet in which fat accounts for only 7% of the
total calories supplied instead of the recommended 15%. In addition, there
are major differences in nutritional status, income, and dietary patterns
among sub-groups of the population and regions. In several regions, the
food crops' share of caloric coverage has been decreasing for the past 15
years, and represents only 85% of the necessary calorie intake, which
implies that an increasing number of small land holders are finding it
difficult to meet their basic nutritional needs, since food imports are
mainly confined to the urban markets.
1.14     Eight surveys (from 1973 to 1983) are available on the nutritional
status of under-five children (see Annex 1, Table 3). Protein-calorie
malnutrition is a serious problem: 28 to 52% of the children are
malnourished (weight-for-age below 80% of the Harvard standard) and 2 to
12% are severely malnourished (weight-for-age below 70% of the Harvard
standard). The most severe incidence of malnutrition &mong children
occurs during the weaning period, with a peak between 12 and 18 months of
age. In addition, nursing mothers who become pregnant wean their child
early, causing adverse (sometimes fatal) effects on the child's nutritional
status. One survey (Buhonga) shows that mortality rates are two to three
times higher during the weaning period than in subsequent months.
1.15     Data on the nutritional status of adults in the Bututsi, Imbo, and
Buyenzi regions indicate that 15 to 20% of the men and 26 to 30% of the
women were considered underweight for their height. Of particular concern
is the high proportion of mothers who are underweight, since chis has a
negative effect on the nutritional status of the newborn. Unfortunately,
the prevalence of underweight newborns is not known and will be one of the
data monitored by the nutrition surveillance system developed through the
proposed project, as part of the national HIS. Other specific nutrition
problems have been identified (anemia, vitamin A deficiency, and gviter);
however, prevalence and incidence are not well-known and will require
further investigation by the MOH nutrition unit.



-6
C. Population Policy and Activities
1.16     Populatior Policy.  In July 1983, the Party (UPRONA) developed a
population policy which stated that fertility must be reduced in order to
avoid the detrimental impact of population growth on economic development
and that "birth control be recommended to the population, but not imposed
as yet." The MOH was designated to develop a nationwide FP program. The
Department of Population (Ministry of Interior (MOI)), already involved in
demographic work (census and demographic surveys), was asked to improve the
collection and analysis of demographic data. Since then, the President and
the Government have repeatedly confirmed their support for population
activities. Soon after issuing its policy statement, the Party launched an
intensive information campaign on the need for population control. At the
community level, meetings were organized by party leaders in an attempt to
reach every household in the country. Although the speed at which these
actions were implemented is impressive, insufficient preparation did not
allow for adequate testing of messages. As a result, some of these
meetings generated sharp public backlash, forcing the Party to take a more
discreet approach. At the moment, public information is limited to
programs broadcast occasionally on the radio and to articles published
regularly in the local newspaper.
1.17     Policy and program formulation are still at an early stage.  The
Government has identified FP as the major means of controlling effectively
the population growth rate. Under the proposed project, the Government
would formally establish a national MCH/FP technical committee to
coordinate, monitor, and assess all multi-sectoral activities related to
FP. These activities are distributed among several ministries: the MOH
plays a leading role in making safe and effective FP services available
nationwide; while other ministries (Social Affairs, Women's .Affairs,
Education, Labor, and Youth) are responsible for promoting aemographic
control among their specific audiences and target groups. Regarding
medium-term demographic objectives, the proposed target is a contraceptive
prevalence rate of 14% by 1992. While this target is ambitious (the CPR
for 1986 was 1.6%), it may be attained if the Government and foreign aid
show strong political and financial commitment. In addition, the impact of
population growth on various social and productive sectors should be
analyzed on a systematic basis in order to assist various ministries in
planning and targeting their programs. The demographic unit of MOI, which
made important contributions in the preparation of demographic projections
for the fourth development plan, has not yet expanded its program to this
type of analysis. However, a proposed UNFPA project intends to address
this issue, in collaboration with the Economic and Social Research
Institute (CURDES) at the University of Bujumbura. Two additional
population-related programs are currently being prepared: (a) the Ministry
of Women's Affairs is developing a program for the improvement in the
status of women (with UNICEF support); and (b) the Minisrry of Interior is
zontemplating the analysis of internal migrations with the techiii!cal
support of the International Labor Organization (ILO). Finally, the
Government has planned to carry out the Second National Population Census
in 1989. Adequate execution of the census and effective intersectoral



-7-
dissemnination of its results would represent a major contribution to the
demographic database needed for population policy development and natioral
planning. The proposed project would support the preparation and
implementation of census activities in collaboration with UNFPA and the UN
(see para. 3.36).
1.18     Family Planning Services.  The MOH, with assistance from UNFPA,
has taken initial steps to improve FP service availability. All
contraceptive methods are available in Burundi, including sterilization.
Voluntary abortion is illegal. Until the early 1980s, services were
available mainly in hospitals. In 1982, services were introduced at the
health center (HC) level in a rural pilot project (Muramvya) supported by
UNFPA, and have been gradually expanded to 13 of the country's 15
provinces.  In early 1987, about 55% of HCs were providing FP services,
versus only 6% three years ago.  The religious mission HCs only promote
"$natural" methods of contraception (e.g., rhythm, Billings), but usually
inform their clients on all methods and refer them to publ'c HCs or
hospitals for modern contraception.  There are no community-based
contraceptive distribution channels. Under the proposed project,
contraceptive social marketing would be experimented with on a pilot basis
(para. 3.17).
1.19     At the end of 1986, the impact of FP activities on contraceptive
prevalence was minimal, with a CPR of 1.6% in the country and 7.1% in
Bujumbura province (see detailed table in Annex 1, Table 4). However, the
trends for the past four years are favorable: since 1984, the number of
acceptors has been more than doubling every year. According to UNFPA data,
the contraceptive mix is as follows: (a) injectables (Noristerat), 52%;
(b) pills, 33%; (c) IUDs, 6%, (d) condoms, 2%; and (e) Billings/abstinence/
sterilization, 7%. No information is yet available on discontinuation
rates in general, nor for each method in particular. This type of data
will be collected as part of the HIS developed under the proposed project.
In order to increase the impact of FP activities, considerably more
resources wlll have to be allocated to health staff training and
supervision, to FP demand generation activities, and to a wider
availability of modern contraceptive methods. In this context, the
proposed project, through its MCH/FP component, would be a major
contribution to the development of FP services in collaboration with UNFPA
and USAID.
1.20     Demand for FP.  A pilot KAP study of 300 couples (mostly from
rural areas), carried out in 1985, indicated that 80% of persons surveyed
had some knowledge of modern contraception and some awareness of the
demographic pressure in Burundi. However, the desired average family size
was on average 6.0, almost identical to the current TFR (6.2). The study
also ind5.cated that there was some current demand for FP, but this was not
quantified. The ongoing Demographic and Health Survey, supported by
USAID/Westinghouse, should provide more information on the topic in Fall
1987. As mentioned in para. 1.16, the Party has already launched an
information campaign to stimulate demand for FP at the connunity level.
However, this effort is limited by the technical capabilities of technical
ministries (including MOH) which should support this campaign. Under the
proposed project, the Govertnment is planning to strengthen MOH proficiency
in IEC and carry otit a major program which will include the promotion of
FP.



-8-
1.21     In the long run, reduction of child mortalitv2  and educational
and economic improvements will increase the demand for FP. In this
context, studies show that increased education among women correlates with
lower fertility and infant mortality rates. Despite the Government's
efforts to expand educational opportunities, literacy and enrollment rates
for Burundian women remain low, as shown in Table 1.2. Other efforts by
the Ministries of Women's Affairs and Social Affairs (with UNICEF support)
are planned to improve women's education and income earning opportunities.
In the meantime, the Government has decided to introduce population
education in the primary school curriculum and to use educational materials
developed under the proposed project.
TABLE 1.2: EDUCATIONAL INDICATORS
1965             1986
Male   Female   Male   Female
Literacy Rates              25%      NA      43%      26%
Enrollment Rates
Primary Education        36%      15%     64%     46%
Secondary Education      4.0%    1.0%    4.3%    2.2%
SOURCE: Ministry of Education, 1987.
D. Health Policies and Services
1.22     Health Policy and Planning.  Since 1976, the stated Government
policy has been to promote the development of social and preventive
medicine. In 1978, a WHO expert assisted MOH in preparing a comprehensive
health plan for "a total PHC coverage of the population.' The report
recommended that basic health services be provided through a network of
small health centers in the ratio of one per 10,000 population. During
1978-82, only a fraction of this plan was implemented due to MOH manpower
and financial constraints.
1.23     The 1983-87 Five Year Development Plan stressed the following
areas of priority in the health sector: (a) administrative
decentralization; (b) construction of new hospitals and health centers; (c)
training of personnel; (d) communicable disease control; (e) drug supply
and distribution; and (f) nationwide coverage of basic health services.
Regarding the latter point, the MOH had defined the following specific
activities: (a) development of an Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI);
(b) promotion of MCH, including FP; (c) environmental sanitation; (d)
health education; and (e) development of a better referral system. While
2/Studies show that a woman's perception of a reduction in child mortality
makes her more confident that her children will survive and this leads
her to more readily accept the concept of FP.



9-
all these proposals are consistent with a sound PHC policy, MOH had
difficulties in translating the stated priorities into resource allocation:
the 1983-87 investment program, as described in detail in the health
financing section (para. 1.36) was biased in favor of tertiary health care.
However, in the meantime, a successful EPI was developed and paramedical
training was enhanced through curriculum revision and construction of three
new training facilities (Gitega, Bururi, and Ngozi).
1.24     The preparation of the 1988-92 Five Year Plan started during the
preparation phase of the proposed project and a dialogue on investment
strategies was initiated with the Government. During project appraisal, a
draft health sector Public Investment and Expenditure Program (PIP/PEP) was
presented to the mission by MOH (see Annex 1, Table 14). Compared to the
1983-87 program, the 1988-92 PIP is more balanced: the PHC sector has
increased from 18% to 457 and the hospital sector has been reduced from 70%
to 50%. However, among the hospital projects, there are still some
it-vestments which are not absolute priorities. Following the mission's
recommendations, the PIP has been divided into a core program and a list of
second priority projects. The core program will be financed as a first
priority even under budgetary constraints. The financing of second
priority projects will bp phased as a function of resource availability for
operating costs.
1.25     Overall, the national health policies and strategies are moving in
the right direction. More importance is given to public health programs,
quality of care, and access to PHC. The MOH shows a willingness to
decentralize its administration and give more autonomy to health facilities
in terms of management and financing. Communities are given more
importance in supporting HC activities and coordinating intersectoral
activities, as shown in a current WHO-supported project in the province of
Cankuzo. The proposed project constitutes one of the major investments for
the Fifth Development Plan, and its focus on MCH/FP, rehabilitation of PHC
infrastructure in underserviced areas, health education, and MOH
institutional strengthening is fully consistent with the Government's
policies.
1.26     Organization and Management of the MOH.  In January 1985, the MOH
launched a mueh needed reorganization of its administrative and managerial
st.ucture, focusing mainly on improvement in health planning, manpower
management and training, and support systems (logistics, medical supplies,
and infrastructure maintenance). The MOH is presently divided into two
main departments: Public Health and Logistics (see Organizational Chart in
Annex). The Department of Public Health is responsible for curative and
preventive care at each level of the health system. The Department of
Logistics is in charge of health infrastructure development and
maintenance, procurement and distribution of medical supplies and
equipment, transport and vehicle maintenance, and overall budgeting. Two
new offices were created at the ministerial cabinet level: the Bureau of
Inspection and Planning (BIP) and the Bureau of Personnel Management and
Training (BPMT). They respond directly to the Minister and have a general
supervisory role over the technical divisions of the two main departments.
In addition, MOH is now pursuing its decentralization efforts with the
progressive establishment of 15 public health offices at the provincial
level. The health officers are in charge of supervising all medlcal and



- 10 -
public health activities in their province, including in-service training,
health education, FP, and drug supply management.
1.27     Although MOH's reorganization has already improved its
administrative capacity, new staff requirements and improvement in staff
skills are still serious constraints at both central and provincial levels.
Limitations are particularly important in planning, management, and
budgeting skills. Several local professionals are being trained in these
key areas, but, in the meantime, in-service training and specific technical
assistance will constitute an essential support to MOH activities.
1.28     Service Delivery.  Health services are offered from four different
levels, including: (a) at the central level, a teaching hospital (CHUK),
private clinic (CPLR), general reference hos?ital tHPRC), psychiatric
center, and a TB center; (b) st the regional level, three reference
hospitals (Gitega, Ngozi, and Bururi); (c) at the provincial level, 21
rural hospitals (17 public and 4 mission-run); and (d) at the community
level, 198 HCs and dispensaries (135 public and 63 mission-run). About 60%
of the population lives within 5 km oL a health facility, and 100% within
6.5 km, which is excellent coverage for Sub-Saharan Africa (see map in
Annex). Nevertheless, due to the mountainous terrain, accessibility to HCs
can be difficult, even through the average catchment area is less than 7km
in radius. The ratio of population per hospital bed is about 1,600:1,
which is average for Central Africa. However, there are some variations
between provinces (as shown in Annex 1, Table 9) that are not taken into
consideration for future planning. Bed occupancy rates vary with the type
of health facilities. HCs beds are in general underutilized (about 30%
occupancy rate for 1983-86), but seasonal variations (e.g., malaria cases
cause increased hospitalizations during the rainy seasons) are difficult to
capture due to the poor HIS. At the hospital level, the average bed
occupancy rate is close to 70% and some wards in Bujumbura (HPRC) have
occupancy rates over 100%. Most public facilities (aside from mission
facilities) need improved building and equipment maintenance, increased
staffing (at the PHC level), more medical equipment, and supplies. Both
mission and public health facilities lack systematic in-service training
programs and a tighter supervision from higher levels of the MOH.
1.29     About 30% of primary health care facilities are run by religious
missions and are centrally supported by CARITAS, which is the coordinating
agency for the Catholic and Protestant missions involved in health care.
Mission health facilities are mostly self-managed and, to some extent,
self-financed through higher user charges than in public facilities. They
also receive subsidies from the Gcvernment for drugs and external support
for personnel (expatriate nurses) and medicine (grants). Furthermore,
facilities which do not fully recover operating costs receive additional
funds from CARITAS. In general, the quality of management and drug
availability are better in mission facilities than in public facilities.
Most of the mission HCs have been run for years by expatriate nurses. The
Government policy is to progressively give the managerial responsibilities
to local staff. In some cases, Burundian nurses (mostly nuns) have been
trained by CARITAS and can readily carry out these tasks. In other cases,
the MOH will have to take over the facility and this will strain its human
and financial resources. During this transitional period, some facilities
may have to operate at a fraction of their possibilities. MOH is aware of



- 11 -
this issue and has initiated a dialogue with the related governmental
authorities in order to smooth the process and avoid any disruption in
health service delivery.
1.30     The control of communicable diseases was initiated in 1982 through
the Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) implemented with the technical
support of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC Atlanta) and the financial
support of USAID, UNICEF, and WHO. At present, about 60% of children under
two years of age have been reached by the program and 46% are fully
immunized--excellent results by Sub-Saharan Africa standards. Two
additional components are currently being added to the PHC activities: the
oral rehydration therapy (ORT) program and the malaria control program.
The first program is aimed at reducing child mortality due to dehydration
caused by diarrhea and the second is aimed at reducing child mortality due
to malaria. Other essential MCH activities exist, but they are not as
developed and as effective as the EPI. About 90% of women have access to
prenatal consultation, but actual coverage is only 60%. More than 80% of
deliveries are not medically assisted and cesarean sections represent only
0.4% of all deliveries (to adequately address obstetric needs, the rate
should be at least 3%). This implies that maternal morbidity and mortality
rates linked to pregnancies and deliveries could be reduced by a more
adequate medical referral system. There is a limited community-based
health care delivery system, mostly through mission facilities. In the
Cibitoke region, a UNICEF-supported pilot project has experimented with the
systematic retraining of traditional birth attendants (TBAs). The project
is currently being evaluated by MOH to assess its impact and replicability.
1.31     Health Manpower.  The government's objectives are to increase the
number of medical and paramedical staff and to improve the quality of their
training. Personnel costs represent about 55% of the MOH recurrent budget
and this share (which has remained relatively steady for the past five
years) leaves an adequate proportion for the remaining operating costs
(drugs, maintenance, supervision). The distribution of all types of health
personnel per type of health facility is shown in Annex 1 (Table 5).
Currently, there are 206 physicians in health facilities (including 40%
expatriates) representing one physician per 23,000 population (average
ratio for Sub-Saharan Africa). There are about 1,095 paramedical staff
currently active, including laboratory technicians and sanitation agents.
The ratio is one paramedic per 4,800 population, which is relatively low
for Sub-Sahoran Africa. One important issue in personnel distribution
concerns the understaffing of rural hospitals and PHC facilities: the
Government has not been sending an adequate number of nurses to the rural
areas where they are needed. Table 6 in Annex 1 shows the differences in
staffing between various types of hospital facilities. Mission-run
hospitals are understaffed for all categories of personnel, except for non-
qualified workers, in comparison with public facilities.  Th'e private
clinic (Clinique Prince Louis Rwagasore (CPLR)) has the highest ratio of
persontnel per 100 beds, particularly for physicians (19.7) and medical
assistants (33.0). At the PHC level, understaffing is a problem for at
least 50% of HCs. Table 7 in Annex 1 shows the staffing patterns of HCs.
The national average number of staff per HC is 8 (including support staff),
with 13 for mission HCs, and 6 for public HCs. The project preparation
team carried out a functional analysis of a sample of 50 HCs and estimated
that at least 10 staff (including support staff) are necessary to ensure



- 12 -
adequate HC performance. As a priority for the next five years, MOH will
have to make the necessary efforts to improve staffing at HCs. Through the
three new paramedical schools (see para. 1.32, below), MOM will have the
capability of producing enough nurses to staff the rural HCs. Thus, under
the proposed project, the adequate staffing of HCs to be rehabilitated will
be a covenant (para. 3.13).
1.32     The Bujumbura Medical School (financially. academically, and
technically supported by the French government) produces about 20
physicians per year, which is adequate for the ccutntry's needs and
resources. However, further medical manpower planning will take into
consideration the 75 medical students and physicians currently being
trained abroad. Paramedical training is under MOH responsibility and major
efforts have been made in the past years. Three new paramedical schools
have been financed by Algeria. The largest one, in Gitega, can accommodate
400 students and train medical technicians and has been operational since
September 1986. The two other schools (Bururi and Ngozi) can accommodate
100 students each and train auxiliary nurses. With a total capacity of 600
students, the three schools can respond adequately to the country's needs.
Projections of paramedical staff outputs for the next five years are
summarized in Annex 1 (Table 8). Career paths for nurses and paramedical
curricula are currently being adequately restructured through an African
Development Bank (AfDB) project. However, there is still an urgent need
for developing a permanent in-service training program for both medical and
paramedical personnel that the proposed project will contribute to meet.
1.33     Drug Supply.  Pharmaceuticals :re imported by the MOH, private
pharmacies (13), and international agencies. A local production unit
(ONAPHA) produces 27 essential drugs, but has some revenue problems due to
a low level of production output and a high overhead. A technical,
financial, and marketing study of this public enterprise (under the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry's umbrella) was carried out in April 1987
in the context of the IDA-financed Public Enterprise Management Project to
assess its performance and financial viability. The preliminary results of
the study have been discussed with the Government in July 1987 and the
final report is expected to be transmitted to the Government and IDA in
October 1987. In 1986, the national drug consumption (in value) was
approximately US$10 million (or US$2 per capita). The private sector
accounted for 502, MOH for 30%, and other sources (NGOs, foreign aid) for
20%. Drug supply receives about 25% of the MOH recurrent budget. Drugs
are distributed through the public health facilities and are provided free
to patients. A small fraction of the drug cost is included in the
consultation and hospitalization fees. Sometimes drug shortages occur at
the periphery, mostly because of logistics problems and poor management by
the health staff.
1.34     Nutrition Activities.  The Government is at an early stage of
developing a national nutrition policy and program. The Government's
approach has been mainly focused on the need to expand agricultural
production and has not considered the potential benefits of a multi-
sectoral approach. The process of establishing national objectives and
strategies is just beginning with the creation of a joint committee with
representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture and Health. Nutrition
activities are, in theory, part of MOH services and include growtn



- 13 -
monitoring, nutritional education, and weaning food preparation
demonstrations. In fact, these activities are carried zut only by a
limited number of hetlth facilities. Mission-run HCs usually have better
nutrition programs than public facilities and experiment with innovative
projects (e.g., kitchen gardens to promote both better agricultural and
eating habits). Severely malnourished children are treated ir pediatric
wards of hospitals and in a few nutrition rehabilitation centers scattered
throughout the country.
1.35     Donor efforts in nutrition have been hampered so far by the lack
of governmental guidelines. Until 1986, the Catholic Relief Services
supported a feeding and education program (about 80,000 participants--
mothers and children) through the mission-run HC network. Due to poor
performance, this program was closed down in early 1987. Food aid programs
include the World Food Program (school children and food-for-work
programs), USAID, and Belgium. They represent an estimated 20% of food
imports, thus saving some of the country's foreign exchange. However,
these activities are not particularly well-targeted to high-risk groups and
are unlikely to have a major impact on malnutrition. UNICEF and EDF are
also active in the sector, and are focusing on household food security,
food conservation, and small-scale food crop production. There are no
specific interventions to deal with goiter, anemia, and vitamin A
defici ency.
1.36     Health Expenditure and Financing.  In 1986, total pet capita
expenditure on health was estimated at US$6, external sources included,
which is about average for African countries with a comparable GNP. Public
investments in health had sharply decreased since 1978 (from 1% of GNP in
1977 to 0.6% in 1983). The 1983-87 bealth sector PIP amounted to FBu 4.4
billion, of which 70% was covered by foreign aid. The implementation rate
over this period is estimated at about 75%. As mentioned in para. 1.24,
the hospital subsector got the largest share of the prot,ram (70%), of which
the teaching hospital (CHUK) represented 36%.3   Domestic financing was
allocated almost exclusively to the hospital subsector, while community
funds (local taxes) were mobilized for HC construction. Training-related
investments (12%), arnd PHC programs (18%) received about 30% of the total.
For 1988-92, the proposed health sector represents 2% of the total PIP and
amounts to FBu 8.4 billion (US$66 million), of which 50% will be invested
in PHC (45%) and health staff training (5%). Foreign aid is covering about
80% of these investments. The remaining 50% of the proposed PIP concerns
the hospital sub-sector and these investments should be postponed since:
(a) presently they do not constitute absolute priorities (with maybe the
exception of the provincial hospital of Karuzi); (b) they have high
3/This US$12 million hospital has been funded by a Saudi grant. It opened
in November 1983 and currently operates with 55% of its total bed
capacity (350 beds). Funding of operating expenses comes from two
sources: (a) cost recovery through user charges (US$0.64 million in
1986); and (b) subsidies from the Ministry of Education (MOE) (US$0.96
million in 1986). With a total operating budget of US$1.6 million in
1986, the hospital falls short of its real needs which were estimated at
US$2.4 in 1986. The Government is currently looking for addit:onal
source.  of funding.



- 14 -
recurrent cost implications; and (c) they have not been idetntified in the
context of a comprehensive and consistent sectoral development approach.
1.37     On average, the MOH recurrent expenditure has represented nearly
5.2% of the government's annual operating expenditure for the past 10
years. Between 1981-83, recurrent expenditur s on health increasea by 13%
per annum in real terms. During 1984-86, there was a particularly rapid
annual expansion (21% in real terms) due to an increase in personnel and
drugs. The share foi personnel has remained at the reasonable level of 55%
during 1982-86, leaving enough resources for other operational
expenditures. The hospital sector absorbs roughly 80% of total recurrent
expenditures, while only 20% is available to HCs.  A better distribution of
resources between the hospital sector and the PHC prograrms is necessary,
starting with an increase in health staff allocation at the HC level, as
mentioned in para. 1.31. Under the proposed project, the yearly review by
IDA of the proposed health sector PIP/PEP (which determines resource
allocation in the sector) will be a covenant (para. 4.06).
1.38     information on sources of health financing for operating
expenditures is summarized in Annex 1 (Table 10). MOH finances around 36%
of expenditures, other Ministries (Education, Rural Development, Social
Affairs, Defense) 7.0%, individuals 21% (including mission facilities 9%,
and private pharmacies 10%), the Civil Servant insurance 16%, and external
aid 20%. MOH is trying to improve its cost recovery mechanisms through
user charges, insurance schemes, and health facility self-management. At
present, user charges in public facilities cover about 10% of onerating
costs and are transferred to the treasury, removing this incentive for
health personnel to improve their performance. On the other hand, mission
facilities are able to recover most of their operating costs through
realistic user charges, higher than the public facilities' fees. On an
experimental basis, a clinic in Bujumbura (CPLR) has been given financial
autonomy: earnings (i.e., patient fees) are kept by the establishment to
cover operating costs instead of being channeled into general revenues.
After a year (it started in January 1986), the experiment can be considered
as potentially successful since full cost recovery of operating expenses
(amortization excluded) is expected by 1988. However, reproducing this
effort is difficult since the clients of this clinic are either insured
civil servants or relatively well-off individuals. A health insurance
scheme was started in 1980 for civil servants and their families
(approximately 70,000 households) and will be extended gradually to include
employees of parastatal and commercial firms. With insurance fees
amounting to 7.5% of gross salary (3Z to be paid by the employee and 4.5%
by the employer), the insurance is currently financially viable.
Consultations, as well as medications, are covered, subject to a 20%
contribution from the member.  However, this insurance system raises some
equity concern: the State is currently spending much more money on civil
servant's health care (US$7 per capita per annum) than on the remaining
population's health care (US$2 per capita per annum). This will be
explored further as part of the Health Financing Policy subcomponent of the
proposed projec'. (see para. 3.29).



- 15 -
II. SECTORAL ISSUES AND BANK ROLE
A. Current Major Sector Issues
2.01     Increasing Health Hazards.  The health environment in Burundi is
currently disquieting. First, the AIDS epidemic is spreading in urban
areas and will have a Airect impact on infant and young adult mortality in
the near future. In a 'tion, the economic impact of the disease due to
the losses in years of nealthy and productive life among the work force
could be extremely severe. Second, malaria cases are becoming more
difficult to treat, given increasing parasitic resistance to chloroquine (a
safe and inexpensive treatment), and will imply more expenditure devoted to
malaria control and possibly an increasing case fatality rate among under-
five children. Third, the nutrition environment is difficult, given the
increasing population pressure on the land, and food distribution
inequalities. All three parameters may lead to an increase in under-five,
young adult, and maternal mortality which would make the Government
objectives in terms of mortality reduction difficult to reach. In
addition, these problems are likely to increase health expenditures and the
overall demand for a health system already fating some serious constraints
as described in the following paragraphs.
2.02     MCH/FP Service Delivery.  While physical access to health care is
relatively good by Sub-Saharan Africa standards, the availability and
quality of MCH/FP services are still too low to have a major impact on
mortality, morbidity, and fertility. This is mostly due to: (a) the lack
of national MCH policies and programs which would coordinate the various
activities and target them to the most vulnerable groups of the population
(under-five children, pregnant and lactating women); (b) a poor training of
health staff in basic MCH techniques, including FP and nutrition
activities; (c) an insufficient staffing of about 50% of HCs; (d)
occasional shortages of medical supplies, including essential drugs and
contraceptives; (e) poor physical condition of some health facilities and
lack of equipment which significantly affects the quality of health
services; and (f) lack of institutional support, particularly effective
supervision from the central and provincial levels. An inadequate IEC
program compounds the weakness of the MCH service delivery system. Health
education is currently limited. Some health messages are conveyed to the
public through educational talks given by the health staff and through the
media, but they are not effective in (a) generating demand for MCH an6 FP
services, and (b) responding to an emergency situation such as the AIDS
epidemic. This is due to the absence in the MOH of an IEC program
development capability based on state-of-the-att research on behavioral
change. The IDA-financed project preparation team explored these
constraints and developed a comprehensive strategy to overcome them,
including the development of a national MCH/population program which would
bring together the various donor-financed programs and make them ultimately
more efficient.



- 16 -
2.03     Institutional Weakness oi the MOH.  The MOP +echnical and
administrative support to health services delivery needs to be
strengthened, particularly in the areas of planning, management, and
budgeting. The planning process is overcentralized and too rigid to
respond to the specific needs of the communities. By focusing too heavily
on the development of physical infrastructure, the planners have the
tendency to overestimate the resources available (human, financial, and
managerial) to carry out the programs. In addition, not enough attention
is paid to the qualitative aspects and impacts of health activities.
Managerial procedures are cumbersome and fail to involve each level of the
health system. The MOH is insufficiently staffed and most of the personnel
is poorly trained in management techniques. Supervision is not carried out
on a regular basis, mostly due to a lack of vehicles, gas, and trained
staff. The management information system, including the health information
system, is very weak and does not support monitoring and evaluation of the
program's performance. The budgetary system is overcentralized and does
not respond to the operational needs of the health system. The recurrent
budget of the MOH is determined historically and not by actual health
policies and programs. There is no flexibility in financial management
since every budget item has to be approved by the MOH--a lengthy process in
most cases. During project preparation, the management procedures
(including the decentralization process) and the health information system
have been reviewed by the preparation team supported by two international
consultants and plans of actions for immediate implementation have been
prepared.
2.04     In addition, the managerial weakness of MOH is compounded by
insufficient financial resources. The health sector financing analysis
completed during project preparation shows that the health budget of the
Government is just sufficient to maintain existing health services and
facilities, but inadequate to support the envisaged expansion of services
toward universal access to health care. Since it is unlikely that the MOH
share of the Government budget can be Increased dramatically in the
foreseeable future, other sources of financing will have to be secured. In
the meantime, existing resources financed by the MOH recurrent budget
should be used more efficiently and effectively. The PIP (and its
implications for the recurrent budget) should reflect the priorities set
for PHC, and the organizational improvements undertaken by the MOH
(decentralization of responsibilities, and improvements in management,
logistics, and supervision procedures) should provide a suitable framework
for efficient resources util'ization favoring PHC. The strategy guiding
these improvements should affect not only the Government, but also the
private sector (i.e., the health services provided by the religious
missions).
B. Sector Strategy
2.05     The Hiealth and Population Sector Report of July 1983 (No. 4500-BU)
and the dialogue on population issues, which took place within the context
of IDA economic dialogue, contributed to the development of a new awareness
of demographic constraints.  The Government is now givitng priority to the
development of a comprehensive population program designed to reduce



- 17 -
fertility and population growth. The MOH strategy is to develop a strong
family planning component in the MCH program. The component would also
have beneficial effects in terms of reduced morbidity and mortality of
mothers and children. This strategy is sound since experience in Africa
has shown that family planning through integration with MCH services is an
effective and efficient approach, if at the same time a demand for FP
servsces is generated by an IEC program and some socio-economic
improvements (particularly those concerned with the education of women)
occur. Nevertheless, it implies that the primary health care delivery
system (which includes MCH activities) is developed enough to respond to
the needs of the population. In Burundi, national health policy has been
evolving from central infrastructure development to PHC enhancement, as
shown by development of the HC network and the progressive establishment of
MCH/FP activities.
2.06     External assistance to the Population, Health, and Nutrition (PHN)
sectors is being provided by several agencies. Support from multilateral
agencies has included UNFPA (pilot project in MCH/FP, support to
demographic research), UNICEF (expanded program on immunizations, nutrition
activities, health education, rural water supply, and work on women in
development), WHO (operational research at the community level, and
technical assistance to the MOH), EDF (water supply, nutrition activities
at the regional level, and health centers construction), and AfDB (health
facilities rehabilitation, construction of a public health laboratory, and
manpower development). Bilateral donors include USAID (Demographic and
Health Survey, Expanded Program on Immunizations, and Combatting Children
Communicable Diseases Program), the French Governmen, (the medical school
and a provincial horpital), the Algerian Government (three paramedical
schools), the Belgian Government (technical assistance, hospital equipment,
tuberculosis, leprosy, malaria, and schisto.omiasis control), the German
Government (water supply, through GTZ), and the Saudi Government (teaching
hospital). IDA is financing two projects (rural water supply and the water
component of urban development) which address adequately the issues of
water quality, quantity, and availability in about 30 rural areas and
several urban areas, including Bujumbura. Two major gaps appear in the
overall provision of external assistance. The first is the limited support
to a large-scale FP program, including IEC activities, and the second is
the lack of institution building for the health system. The Bank will have
to play a leading role in these two key areas. In addition, the AIDS
Control Program will require a major foreign support. Participation in
this program, which has implications for health expenditure and the overall
health system performance, would allow the Bank to influence its design and
execution.
2.07     IDA's strategy is to focus on immediate steps to reduce fertility
and child and maternal morbtdity/mortality through a first project. IDA
will assist the Government in its two-pronged approach of: (a) developing
a more comprehensive and effective MCH program, including F? services; and
(b) establishing a multipurpose IEC program with special emphasis on FP,
MCH, and AIDS prevention. Nutrition activities would be part of the
project through the MCH/FP component. Dialogue on nutrition policy will be
carried on in the context mainly of work on agriculture production and
marketing policies. According to the last Burundi CEM (No. 6754-BU), there
is substantial potential for increased foodcrop production through: (a)



- 18 -
increased double cropping; (b) expanded fertilizer utilization; (c)
improved sead varieties; and (d) incentives for fooderop production and
marketing. However, as mentioned in para. 1.09, the release of this
potential is facing some serious constraints which will be addressed by
various IDA-financed agriculture projects, including on-farm
experimentation and improvement of exterior and support services. Further
research work and studies are contemplated as part of the proposed project
(see para. 3.18), including studies on iodine deficiency, anemia, and
operational research on targeted food supplementation. In order to plan,
implement, and evaluate activities and to develop the whole health sector,
the MOH will require Bank support to strengthen its institutional
capabilities at the central, provincial, and field levels. MOH has already
begun to reorganize its administrative structure, but needs technical and
financial assistance to achieve this difficult process. IDA will also
assist the Government in developing health cost recovery schemes, health
investment programming, and a coordinating mechanism among donors in the
PHN secto.. NGOs (mostly religious missions) would also benefit from the
project inputs and contribute to its implementation since they are an
integral part of the health system under MOH administrative umbrella.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Pro1ect Oblectives and Design
3.01     The overall objectives are to:  (a) contribute to the reduction of
maternal and child morbidity and mortality; (b) promote and develop birth
spacing and family planning among couples; (c) assist in controlling the
AIDS epidemic; (d) improve the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the
heulth system; and (e) improve the demographic data base for population
policy development and socio-economic planning. These objectives will be
achieved through:  (a) the qualitative and quantitative development of
MCH/FP services in all health facilities; (b) the establishment of
population and health information programs for the 1;eneral public and
school-aged children; (c) the support to the nationu. AIDS control program;
rd) the strengthening of planning and management capabilities of MOH at the
central, provincial, and field levels; (e) the development of new financing
mechanisms and better resource allocation schemes for the health sector;
and (f) the contribution to the 1989 Census and the dissemination of its
results. The project objectives are fully consistent with the Government's
social objectives ("to improve living standards of the most vulnerable
groups of the population") and economic adjustment objectives ("to improve
the financial performance of technical ministries"). Each project
component has a full set of quantitative objectives, including outcome and
process targets, all of them in line with the key government objectives to
be reached by the end of the fifth Five Year Development Plan: (a)
reducing maternal mortality by 20%; (b) reducing infant mortality from 125
per 1,000 to 100 per 1,000; and (c) increasing contraceptive prev.lence
from 1.6% to 14%. These objectives are ambitious for a five-year period
and will require a strong commitment from the Government and major efforts



- 19 -
from the donor community. The proposed project is considered by the
Government as a key element of its strategy to reach the proposed
objectives.
3.02     As the first IDA operation in the sector, the project is simple in
design. It is an integral part of the Fifth Development Plan (1988-92) and
will complement other donor assistance in population, health, and
nutrition. The main project inputs are aimed at establishing a
comprehensive and effective national MCH/FP services package as part of the
PHC system. Strengthening the already existing MCH activities and
developing those that are missing are the absolute priorities, given the
importance of an MCH program in (a) reducing the overall mortality and
morbidity burden of the countzy; and (b) serving as the vehicle for
developing a widely accepted FP program. The project will build on the
experience of other donors (UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, WHO) who are already
active in the sector, and will focus on interventions which are currently
too weak or neglected (e.g., child nutrition, maternal health, and FP). As
part of project preparation (and with the support of PPF consultants), the
concept and design of a national MCH/FP program have been developed by MOH.
This program will coordinate and make more efficient all .-tivities in the
sector and will be used as a channel for foreign aid. Within five years,
the proposed project will have brought to this program the additional
resources necessary to have a significant impact on health status and
fertility. In the meantime, the project, through its institutional
strengthening components, will develop MOH management capabilities. Within
three years, MOH should be able to prepare and execute a second and larger
project which would include new financing approaches and aim at developing
the entire health sector.
B. Summ.ary Description
3.03     The proposed project consists of five compenents:  (a) development
of MCH/FP services; (b) development of an IEC program; (c) support to the
National AIDS Control Program; (d) institutional strengthening of MOH; and
(e) population data development. All components are closely interrelated
and aim at developing the PHN sector as a whole, in conjunction with the
Bank-supported structural adjustment program. The project is designed to
be implemented over a five-year period starting January 1988, and if the
implementation proceeds on schedule, a second project will be prepared
during the course of the first project. The base costs are US$16.3
million.
3.04     Development of MCH/FP Services _US$9.8 million).  The MCHI/P
component will make maternal care, FP services, and nutrition activities
available nationwide through the PHC network and other community-based
activities. This will require: (a) the establishment of a national MCH/FP
program and an MCH/FP Division in the MOH Hygiene and Prevention Department
to manage program implementation; (b) additional staff and technical
assistance; (c) health staff training; (d) medical supplies, including
contraceptives; (e) health center rehabilitation (30); (f) creation of
three regional maintenance workshops; (g) additional vehicles; and (h)
monitoring, supervision, and cvaluation studles.



- 20 -
3905     Development of an IEC Program (US$1.3 million).  The IEC component
will: (a) establish an IEC capability within the MOH; (b) inform the
population about demographic problems and health risks of closely spaced
pregnancies; (c) encourage the adoption of a small family norm; (d)
stimulate the use of effective contraceptive methods; and (e) promote the
prevention of major public health problems such as the current AIDS
epidemic. This will require: (a) the strengthening of MOH health
education division (with staff, technical assistance, equipment, and
vehicles); (b) the development of IEC material for the media, schools, and
social sector personnel; (c) the training of health staff and social
workers; (d) equipment and additional vehicles; and (e) supervision and
evaluation studies.
3.06     Support to the National AIDS Control Program (US$1.9 million).
The AIDS component will support national and international efforts to
control this epidemic through: (a) donated blood screening; (b) public
information; (c) health worker training; (d) the establishment of a
surveillance system; (e) the overall strengthening of the STDs Control
Program; and (f) research and evaluation. This will require staff
training, IEC materials development, purchase of medical supplies,
including condoms, purchase of laboratory equipment, and operating costs to
carry out all control activities.
3.07     Institutional Strengthening of MOH (US$2.0 million).  The
institutional strengthening component will improve: (a) MOH organizational
structure at the central and provincial levels; (b) managerial procedures;
(c) health infotmation systems; (d) public expenditure programming; and (e)
health financing. This will require additicnal personnel, staff training,
technical assistance, equipment, additional vehicles, and supervision and
operational research.
3.08     Population Data Development (US$1.0 million).  The Population Data
Development component would contribute to the development of a strong
demographic database to be used in developing a more specific population
policy and integrating demographic parameters into the national social and
economic planning process. This will be done through: (a) support to the
National Population Census; (b) assistance in publishing and disseminating
the census results; and (c) initiation of a closer collaboration between
civil registrations and vital statistics collection. This will require the
financing of additional temporary staff, census materials, and seminars.
C. Detailed Project Description
MCH/FP Component
3.09     The broad objectives of this component are to contribute to a
reduction in maternal and child morbidity and mortality, and to increase
the availability and use of effective and safe contraception among couples.
The impact indicators for maternal mortality, infant mortality, and
fertility rates are summarized in Annex 1 (Table 17). The specific
component objectives are to: (a) increase child health monitoring
(including nutrition status) from 46% of the target population in 1986 to



- 21 -
80% in 1992; (b) increase the number of deliveries attended medically from
17% in 1986 to 27% in 1992; (c) increase prenatal coverage from 60% of the
target population in 1986 to 85% in 1992; and (d) increase the CPR from
,.6% in 1986 to 14% in 1992. These objectives are based on maternal care,
FP, and child health/nutrition monitoring, since other MCH activities
(e.g., EPI) are already well developed and progressing satisfactorily. The
component implementation strategy is tos (a) develop a national MCH/FP
program which would coordinate the various MCH/FP activities and make them
more effective and efficient; (b) establ'lsh an MCH/FP Division which will
monitor the implementation of the national program; (c) develop three key
MCH aspects which are currently poorly addressed--maternal care, FP, and
nutrition activities; and (d) execute the first phase of rehabilitation of
the PHC infrastructure (about 30 HCs).
3.10     Establishment and Implementation of a National MCH/FP Program.  ts
part of project preparation, the MOH (with the assistance of PPF-financed
consultants) formally established a National MCH/FP program to be
implemented as part of the Fifth Health Development Plan (1988-92). At the
policy level, coordination and monitoring of the program will be done by
the party (UPRONA) which will inform all ministries and give
recommendations regarding program implementation. At the technical level,
a committee has been created with representatives from MOH, MSA, MOE, and
MOI, and from international and bilateral agencies (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF,
WHO, and USAID) to prepare strategies and resource mobilization. This
committee is operationally active through 10 working groups, each of which
deals with specific MCH/FP issues (e.g., FP, TBA training, etc.). During
the appraisal mission, it was agreed that this committee will meet every
three months on a formal basis and more often if needed. In addition, in
order to improve the management and coordination of all MCH/FP activities,
the Minister agreed to the creation of a new MCH/FP Division (under the
Public Health Dejartment) to coordinate program implementation in MCH/FP,
nutrition, and immunization, activities being currently undertaken through
parallel programs. The terms of reference of the new division are included
in the project proposal. At the field level, communal development
committees, which are progressively being developed by MOI, will be in
charge of coordinating and supporting key MCH/FP activities, including
public education and communication.
3.11     Strengthening of MCH/FP Services.  At the operational level, the
component will aim at developing qualitatively and quantitatively specific
MCH activities as part of a PHC package to be delivered through the HC
network. The project contribution will focus heavily on maternal care,
since this aspect of MCH has been somewhat neglected by the ongoing
projects. By introducing the concept of safe motherhood through a set of
specific activities (e.g., detection of high risk pregnancies and
development of the referral system), the promotion of family planning
becomes easier and more acceptable to the public. In addition, the
project, through in-service training, intensified supervision, and
contraceptive supply, will make FP services available in all health
facilities by 1992. Nutrition activities, as part of an MCH package, would
also be developed by the component. Four types of activities have been
identified: (a) nutrition education (using the IEC program as a vehicle);
(b) development of weaning foods at the provincial level through small-
scale, co=munity-based production; (c) promotion of breastfeeding (also



- 22 -
through the IEC component); and (d) growth monitoring. A key element for a
successful implementation of these activities is the establishment of the
institutional structure described in para. 3.08 which would coordinate the
actions of the various national and international agencies involved in MCH
activities. The component implementation will be phased, starting with
urban areas and most densely populated rural areas. It is anticipated that
the program will be developed nationwide within 4-5 years.
3.12     Improvement of the Health Center Network.  The MOH has established
a priority list of 30 HCs to be upgraded and remodeled (see list in Annex
1, Table 11). The centers were selected according to the following
criteria: (a) population distribution and density; (b) status of existing
facilities; (c) demand for health and FP services; and (d) accessibility to
clean water. Site surveys and preliminary drawings have been completed for
the 30 HCs. Based on the expected quantity and quality of services, two
types of centers have been defined: the first (CSB1) to serve up to 18,000
inhabitants; and the second type (CSB2) for larger population groups.
Scgedules of accommodations have been prepared for both types of centers.
The CSB1 would include an ambulatory care unit, a four-bed maternity unit,
a four-bed observation room, one staff house, and auxiliary rooms totalling
about 320 m2 of net area. The CSB2 would include a larger ambulatory care
unit, a 6-bed maternity unit, a six-bed observation room, two staff houses,
and auxiliary rooms totalling about 460 m2 of net area. Lists of equipment
and furniture have been prq,osed by MOH, based on the inventory of current
equipment of the centers to be rehabilitated, the standard lists of MOH,
and the UNIPAC (UNICEF) catalogue. In addition, the 30 HCs will be
provided with solar energy equipment, including photovoltaic cells and
batteries, refrigerators, and emergency lighting. The appraisal mission
reviewed the list of HCs to be rehabilitated/upgraded, the site surveys,
the preliminary drawings, the lists of equipment and furniture, and found
them acceptable.
3.13     As mentioned in para. 1.31, the maintenance of PHC facilities is
largely inadequate. MOH is willing to address this problem through: (a)
strengthening of the central maintenance unit; (b) setting up of three
regional maintenance units with mobile teams; (c) additional training of
maintenance staff; and (d) a larger involvement of the communities in
carrying out routine maintenance of the buildings. The project will
support: (a) the construction and equipping of three regional maintenance
workshops (about 180m2 each) in Gitega, Bururi, and Ngozi; (b) the
provision of vehicles (four-wheel drive pickup) for the central and
regional units; (c) two technical training workshops for the maintenance
staff; and (d) short-term (three man-months) technical assistance. In
order to ensure an adequate performance of the rehabilitated HCs, their
staffing should be increased to the minimal norm defined during project
preparation (10 persons, including support staff) as mentioned in para.
1.31. It was agreed during negotiations that MOH would recruit at least
four additional nurses Sor every HC to be rehabilitated under the proposed
project (para. 7.02(a)).
3.14     Training.  At the central level, the project will provide three
fellowships (MA level) in MCH/FP for MOH higher level staff who will play a
key role in the MCH/FP v.ogram implementation. At the periphery, field
staff training in maternal care, FP, and nutrition activities is a key



- 23 -
element of this component. The project will complement ongoing in-service
training activities which are carried out under a "trickle down" strategy
developed by the Personnel Management and Training Bureau. A core of
regional trainers are trained at the central level during two-week
seminars, with the support of short-term foreign technical assistants who
also assist in the development of teaching materials. The multi-
disciplinary regional training teams, which are based at the regional
paramedical school level (Bujumbura, Ngozi, Bururi, and Gitega), train the
field staff in each province on a regular basis. This approach, which
started at the beginning of 1987 with full support of UNICEF, UNFPA, and
USAID, will avoid both duplication between the various foreign-supported
training activities and useless overburdening on the field staff which is
already quite busy with clinical activities.
3.15     Project-related training topics will include:  (a) modern
contraceptive methods, including IUD insertion; (b) promotional activities
with a special emphasis on the person-to-person approach; (c) organization,
management, and monitoring of FP activities; (d) coordination of population
activities with other sectors; (e) prenatal care with emphasis on high-risk
pregnancy detection and monitoring; (f) postnatal care; (g) the control of
STDs, particularly AIDS; and (h) nutrition activities for women and
children, including nutrition education, breastfeeding, and growth
monitoring. The project would provide for technical assistance (curriculum
development and training of trainers), development of teaching materials,
and operating costs of training sessions and supervision. TBAs, who are
taking care of 50 to 75% of the deliveries, will be trained on an
experimental basis. Fifty health centers have been randomly selected to
train about 10 TBAs each. The impact on maternal care will be monitored
and, if successful, the program will be developed on a larger scale. The
project will provide operating funds for one central training seminar per
year. In addition, the project will support the development of teaching
materials (technical manuals and audiovisual materials) which will be used
for both pre- and in-service training of medical and paramedical staff.
Draft manuals on FP and nutrition have already been prepared by the project
team and will be published as soon as the project is effective. The use
and impact of all teaching material will be closely monitored through
supervision visits by the staff from the Personnel Management and Training
Bureau.
3.16     Supervision.  The qualitative and quantitative increase in
services at the HC level require an intensification of supervision from the
provincial and secteur (subdivisions of a province) levels. Since the
provincial and secteur medical officers will be unable to carry out all
training and supervision activities, additional mult!disciplinary
supervisors (Medical Assistant level) should be posted at the provincial
level. Four supervisors are already posted in Bujumbura (province), Ngozi,
Bururi, and Gitega. The project would provide additional vehicles (15
motorcycles) and operating costs for supervision. It was agreed during
negotiations, that 11 additional provincial public health supervisors would
be in place according to the following schedule: three by December 31,
1988; three by December 31, 1989; and five by December 31, 1990 (para.
7.02(b)).



- 24 -
3.17     Medical Supplies.  The strengthening of the MCH/FP program will
require an increase in critical medical supplies, particularly
orntra('optives. Present contraceptive prevalence is estimated at 1.6% for
the entire country, but is estimated to be climbing sharply and is targeted
to reach about 14% within five years (see Annex 1, Table 12). This
projection has been made taking into consideration the fact that the number
of newy acceptors has been doubling every year since 1984. Contraceptive
cequirornennts have been estimated according to the lollowing scenario: a
twofold increase in the number of acceptors in 1987 and 1988, and a rise
of 25% per year for 1989-1992. Several assumptions have been made in terms
of contraceptive mix (see Annex 1, Table 13) and the most cost-effective
mix has been used for cost calculations. Currently, contraceptives are
financed by USAID, IPPF, and UNFPA. It is likely that additional foreign
assistance will be needed to cover all the contraceptive needs. As part of
the project, contraceptive distribution outside the health sector will be
tried for two products: condoms and spermicides. All channels for
distribution have not yet been formally identified, but will include
community-based distribution through TBAs, social centers, and UPRONA
offices. The feasibility of such an approach will be tested and, if
successful, replicated on a larger scale. At the moment, the Government
does not intend to use IDA funds to finan( tither contraceptives or other
required medical supplies, but intends to solicit grant funding for
additional needs that it cannot meet.
3.18     Studies.  In order to support the overall project monitoring
systern (para. 5.09), special studies will be carried out to monitor the
progress of some key aspects of the component. These studies will include:
(a) the analysis of the determinants of maternal mortality; (b) the factors
influencing contraceptive use (i.e., demand generation, service
availability, and quality of service); and (c) progress in child health
monitoring (including nutritional status surveillance). The studies have a
simple design, with a minimum number of indicators. They aim at assessing
quickly the specific project contribution to the overall national MCH/FP
program. The MCH/FP Division will be responsible for carrying out these
studies on a yearly basis, with the support of the MCH technical assistant.
The data collected will be analyzed promrtly and transmitted to project
management to assess progress of the component implementation. An
additional unallocated fund of US$200,000 will be available for further
MCH/FP-related studies and operational research, such as nutritional
studies (para. 2.07) or outreach activities experimentation. Proposals for
these additional studies will be submitted to IDA for review and approval.
EPoramDeloent
3.19     Obiectives.  The short-term objectives of this component are
closely linked to the operational objectives of the MCH/FP and AIDS
components (i.e., to inform and educate the public about the MCH/FP
services and to encourage them to adopt new behaviors which would
contribute to better health and nutrition status for mothers and children,
lower maternal and infant mortality rates, and reduced fertility rates).
The long-term objectives of the component are to promote priority public
health programs, including the prevention of major epidemics (e.g., AIDS),
and to give technical support to other ministries involved in health and
population IEC. The operational objectives are to: (a) inform the general



- 25 -
population about health risks of close pregnancies and the economic impact
of population growth; (b) encourage the general population to adopt a small
family norm; (c) inform future couples and new parents about the healtl
benefits of FP; (d) encourage women of reproductive age to protect
themselves from unwanted pregnancies and to attend pre- and post-natal
consultations; (e) inform the population about the AIDS epidemic and
promote changes in sexual behavior to prevent sexual transmission of the
disease; (f) promote immunization, oral rehydration therapy for diarrhea,
and better weaning practices; and (g) promote hygiene, sanitation, and
prevention of communicable diseases. The component objectives ara flexible
since the ultimate goal of the IEC program development is to respond to the
operational needs of the MOH and occasionally of other ministries. The
component implementation will be managed by the MOH Health Education
Division which will be strengthened as part of the project (see para.
3.22). To develop a stronger institutional IEC capability within the MOH
is crucial given the complexity, specificity, and sometimes sensitivity
(e.g., FP, AIDS prevention) of messages to be delivered to specific target
groups. In addition, coordination among various ministries (Education,
Social Affairs, Women's Affairs, etc.) has to be developed with the support
of UPRONA in order to have consistency and collaboration between the
various social sectors.
3.20     IEC Strategies and Program.  Two complementary approaches have
been developed: (a) a permanent program using both media and face-to-face
communication; and (b) specific multi-media, multi-sectoral campaigns,
launched two to three times a year to address particularly urgent problems
and give momentum to the program. The permanent program will use radio,
television, and press. Plays (soap opera type) will be produced by a
successful popular theater company which already has a wide audience, both
in rural (through the radio) and urban areas. These plays will be taped
and aired on a regular basis, both on television and radio. The plays will
be developed around health and FP themes, and will represent a welcome
change from the usual lecture-type presentations. Face-to-face
communication will also be used on a wide scale. Video and audio cassettes
of the above-mentioned plays will be used by the field personnel during
health education sessions and by the provincial supervisors during in-
service training sessions. In addition, this personnel will use more
classical teaching materials (i.e., flip charts, reference manuals,
booklets, posters, etc.).
3.21     The information campaigns will occur twice or three times per
year. Each campaign will have a specific theme developed by MOH in
collaboration with other ministries involved. The themes will be chosen
based on MOH priorities (e.g., FP, immunization, epidemic control) and
results of previous campaigns (some themes will have to be repeated). In
addition to mass media information, campaign flyers will be distributed to
school children who will be able to read them to their less formally-
educated family members. Before each campaign, the field workers will meet
at the provincial level and be prepared to address campaign-related issues.
It is anticipated (as research work shows) that this complementarity
between media and face-to-face communications will be effective, since the
media is a good means of conveying information which can be translated into
behavioral changes during face-to-face communication. However, the success
of both strategies will be dependent on the quality of progtam development
planning and management at the central level.



- 26 -
3.22     Strengthening the MOH IEC Structure.  The Health Education
Division (Sous Direction de l'Education pour la Sante (SDEPS) will be
reorganized and strengthened in order to carry out all the above-mentioned
activities. An organizational chart (Chart 2 in Annex 6) has been prepared
by MOH and found acceptable by the appraisal mission. Four additional
staff will be recruited: one director in charge of overall IEC activities
management; two deputies (one communications specialist in charge of
material development, pretesting, and production; the cthzr in charge of
monitoring and evaluation activities); and one journalist specifically in
charge of developing the content of printed materials. A liaison officer
(who is currently the SDES Director) will be in charge of intersectoral
coordination for all IEC activities. The project will provide additional
vehicles (two 4-wheel drive vehicles and one passenger car), operating
costs for supervision, and all the necessary IEC equipment. The new SDES
Director and the two Deputies have already been identified by MOH. They
will be formally appointed after they complete an overseas training in IEC
(para. 3.23, below). It was agreed during negotiations that, by August 31,
1988, MOH would appoint as Director of SDEPS and deputies the three
individuals who would have received the PPF-financed overseas training in
IEC (para. 7.02(c)).
3.23     Training and Supervision.  At the central level, the project will
provide three fellowships in communications (MA level) for the SDES
director and its two deputies. The candidates will start the training in
September 1987 (under PPF Phase II, see para. 5.02) and be appointed in
August 1988 (para. 3.22, above). For field staff, the in-service training
will be carried out following the general MOH training strategy (see para.
3.11), with a national seminar at the central level to train the core of
reg&.onal trainers, and thereafter, training seminars at the provincial
level. The follow-up and evaluation will be done by the public health
provincial supervisors who will also collect feedback information from the
field. The project will support operating costs for seminars and
supervision. In addition, the project uill provide four study tours in
francophone countries where the IEC programs are considered successful.
Candidates will be identified during the component implementation.
3.24     Materials Development.  The SDEPS will be in charge of developing
IEC materials. Once the material has been pretested, it will be produced
either directly by SDES or through contracts with other producers. Video
cassette copies of each theater play will be distributed to provincial
health offices and to the Bureau d'Etudes Pedagogiques et Sociales (BEPES)
for Population Education in schools and primary school teacher training.
Audio cassettes of the plays will be distributed to the 114 communes to be
used in health and population education sessions. For each cassette, a
discussion guide will be produced to assist health and social workers in
leading discussions on the themes included in the cassettes.. The SDES will
also produce: (a) a reference IEC manual for field personnel; flip charts
and commentaries taped on audio cassettes; (b) posters for health centers,
public buildings, and schools; and (c) booklets containing MCH/FP
information to be distributed to future couples when they apply for
marriage licenses and to new parents when they register the birth of a
child.  For each campaign, specific flyers will be produced to provide
back-up information for mass media messages.



- 27 -
3.25     Technical Assistance.  Two foreign experts will be recruited under
the ptoject to ensure a smooth start-up of the component implementation,
given the relative lack of in-country expertise and the innovative nature
of the proposed activities. One expert will be responsible for assisting
the SDEPS Director in planning and managing all IEC activities. In
particular, contributions will be made to facilitate coordination between
the IEC and MCH/FP components and other ministries involved in IEC
(Education, Social Affairs, and Women's Affairs). The consultancy will
start in August 1988 and last for 18 months. The other expert will be a
communications specialist in charge of training SDEPS staff in
communication and production techniques, ensuring consistency between
messages delivered by various agencies. In particular, contributions will
be made to facilitate the development of health and population education
manuals to be used in schools. The consultancy will start in August 1988
and last for 12 months. The local staff should be able to take over all
technical assistants' responsibilities by the end of 1989. UNICEF has
agreed to finance this technical assistance as part of their 1988-92 plan.
The terms of reference have been jointly discussed with MOH and UNICEF
representatives and found acceptable.
3.26     Studies.  Monitoring and evaluation are relatively difficult since
the impact of the IEC program is closely dependent on service availability;
it is virtually impossible to separate the health impact due to behavioral
changes induced by the IEC program from the effect of improvement in
quality and availability of health services. However, process indicators
will be collected by the provincial public health supervisors (see para.
3.16) on a regular basis to assess the progress in community awareness and
behavioral changes in relation with major IEC themes. Baseline data will
be obtained through three preliminary studies. These studies will be
carried out during the early stage of the component implementation and
repeated during the last year of project implementation. An audience
survey will allow for better message targeting. In the Bujumbura area, a
section on television viewing patterns will be added to the basic radio
questionnaire. The Service National d'Etudes et de Statistiques (SNES)
will be in charge of carrying out this study. An inventory of IEC
materials and audiovisual equipment would allow the IEC Director to assess
to what extent existing IEC materials and equipment can be used as part of
the component activities. USAID is willing to finance this study with
CURDES as an executive agency. The last study concerns socio-cultural
constraints for FP. The study of Burundian attitudes toward fertility and
FP would provide useful information for message development. Both UNICEF
and UNFPA are willing to finance this type of study. The terms of
reference for the three studies were reviewed by the appraisal mission and
found acceptable. An additional unallocated fund of US$200,000 will be
available for further IEC-related studies and operational research as
necessity arises during project implementation. Proposals for these
additional studies will be submitted to IDA for review and approval.
Support to the National AIDS Control Program
3.27     The Government, in collaboration with the WHO Special Program on
AIDS (SPA), has proposed a preliminary short-term AIDS Control Program.
The program's main objectives are to: (a) reduce the transmission of the
disease; (b) develop a surveillance system to monitor the progress of the



- 28 -
infection; (c) strengthen the overall STDs Program; and (d) prepare the
national health system to respond in the long term to the AIDS epidemic.
The key elements of the National AIDS Control Program are the following:
(a)   Screening of All Blood Transfusions.  Currently, donated
blood screeniag is carried out only at the central level
(Bujumbura Central Laboratory). Regional blood banks have
to get their supplies from the central level, which causes
serious problems for emergencies and routine surgery. All
regional blood banks and hospitals will be equipped with
screening tests (ELISA and Western Blot) for antibodies to
the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), and the laboratory
technicians will be trained to use adequately these
expensive tests;
(b)   Public Information.  A massive IEC campaign will be
organized to develop a national awareness of the gravity of
the situation and promote che necessary behavioral changes.
The IEC component to be developed under the proposed project
(see paras. 3.19-3.26) will be the main vehicle for this
campaign, but additional support will be required from
UPRONA and other Ministries, including the Ministries of
Interior, Women's Affairs, Social Affairs, Youth and
Culture, and Education;
(c)   'lealth Worker Training.  Health workers at all levels have
an important role to play in the control program, includings
counselling all clients, promoting behavioral changes and
the use of condoms, identifying high-risk patients,
identifylng and managing cases using only screened blood for
transfusions, using only sterile instruments, etc. A
special training program has to be developed for all health
workers in the country, including field staff, laboratory
technicians, health administrators, and faculty of the
medical and nursing schools;
(d)   Establishment of a Surveillance System.  The objectives of
the surveillance system are to assess the prevalence and
incidence of the HIV infection and to monitor the progress
of the ccntrol program.  Surveillance activities fall into
two categories: (i) a routine surveillance system
integrated to the national HIS; and (ii) special surveys to
be carried out in high-risk groups or specific geographical
areas; and
(e)   Strengthening thq STDs Program.  A nationwide effort will be
made to detect and treat adequately other STDs since they
contribute to the spread of AIDS and constitute by
themselves a serious public health problem. Standard
antibiotic treatments would be developed and the health
staff would be requested to comply to these therapeutic
schemes.



- 29 -
3.28     IDA contributions to the control program will be defined more
precisely in the next few months when other donor contributions h.ve been
confirmed. The EEC has already committed some funding and WHO would
provide at least three experts (epidemiologist, health planner, and IEC
specialist) for at least six months. Other donors, including USAID, are
expected to get involved in the near future. IDA support would focus on:
(a) health staff training; (b) IEC materials development; (c) laboratory
equipment and medical supplies; and (d) research and evaluation. IDA would
play a key role in assessing the potential demographic and economic impact
of AIDS. The specific role of each donor will be more precise when the
Five-Year National AIDS Control Program, which is currently being prepared
by the MOH with WHO technical assistance, is ready.  It was agreed during
negotiations that, by March 31, 1988 the Five-Year National AIDS Control
Program would be submitted to IDA for review and approval, and would be
updated annually thereafter (para. 7.02(d)). It was also agreed that IDA
approval of the five-year control program would be a condition of
disbursement under the credit for AIDS control activities (para. 7.03).
MOH Institutional Strengthening
3.29     Oblectives.  The main objectives of this component are to:  (a)
strengthen the planning capabilities of the Bureau of Inspection and
Planning (BIP); (b) develop key MOH planning and managerial procedures at
each level of the health system; and (c) experiment with new health
financing approaches and alternative resource allocations. Some specific
MOH institutional constraints are already addressed in the two previous
components as part of their development strategy (creation and operation of
a national MCH/FP committee, establishment of an MCH/FP Division,
strengthening of the SDES, etc.). However, other broader institutional
constraints, which would hamper not only the proposed project
implementation, but all PHN activities, have to be addressed now in order
to pave the way for further sectoral development.
3.30     Strengtheninx the BIP.  This bureau has a key role to play int
(a) translating Government policies into resourca allocation strategies;
(b) setting standards for all health activities; and (c) preparing,
monitoring, and evaluating priority programs and projects, including the
proposed IDA-supported project. To strengthen the BIP, the project will
provide two technical assistants, a health planner, and an architect
specializing in health infrastructure development. The health planner will
assist the head of the BIP (Inspector General) in carrying out all the
tasks listed above, and will train local BIP staff in day-to-day management
activities with the objective of developing a critical mass of people able
to plan and design programs and prepare and monitor future projects. In
addition, local consultants in public health, epidemiology, demography,
law, and other specialties will be recruited on a short-term basis to work
on specific issues raised by the planning and monitoring process. The
architect will advise the BIP on health facility planning and maintenance
and will train local counterparts. The project will also provide
additional vehicles (five) and operating costs for supervision. Given the
importance of BIP strengthening for the management of the project, it was
agreed during negotiations that the following would be conditions of
project effectiveness: (a) that a technical assistant in health planning,
with quialifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, be appointed by MOH



- 30 -
to support the BIP for the first two years of project implementation (para.
7.01(a)); and (b) that a ttclhntical assistant in health architecture
programmiag, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, be
appointed by MOH to support the BIP during the first three years of project
implementation (para. 7.01(b)).
3.31     Information Systems Development.  Given the lack of accurate
health data, the priority is to develop an effective HIS. The proposed
system is designed to collect and analyze enough operations, demographic,
and morbidity/mortality data to assess and mon{tor the country health and
vital statistics and to monitor health service performance. At the central
level, the HIS will allow decision makers to plan, monitor, and assess
health, FP, and nutrition programs. At the periphery, the HIS will be used
to improve health service performance (throagh a feedback system) and to
identify epidemics. The project will provide a short-term consultant (six
man-months over five years) to assist the MOH Epidemiology and Health
Statistics Division in developing the HIS and monitoring its
implementation. The project will also provide computer equipment for the
central level and, in a second phase, to the provincial level.
3.32     In addition, the project will provide short-term technical
assistance to develop the Administration and Management Improvement
document prepared by the project team. This expert will assist MOH in
developing plans of action parallel with the HIS development in order to
benefit fron the computer familiarity already possessed by the staff. Key
aspects of management (finance, personnel, drugs, equipment, etc.) will
progressively be introduced as part of a comprehensive management
information system.
3.33     Health Financing jof)iicyvelo  ient.  The main objectives of this
subcomponent are to: (a) improve resource allocation in the health sector
in terms of cost-effectiveness and efficiency; (b) develop new financing
mechanisms in order to fund the necessary expansion (qualitative and
quantitative) of health services; and (c) explore the feasibility of self-
financing and self-management at the HC level. A preliminary study has
already been completed during project preparation, giving the current
situation concerning major financial flows in the system, an overview of
past trends, and projections for the next five years.  The study concluded
that new sources of financing munts be found to reach a total health
coverage of the population--the ultlmate goal of the Government. The study
reconnends the development, within five to ten years, of a mandatory
national Insurance scheme, aud the decentralization of health financing
management.  Three scenarios were developed for the next five years:  (a)
status quo (mandatory medical Insuiance for clvil servants and voluntary
medical carc for othfer citizens); (b) compulsory universal Insurance for
the entire population; and (c) compulsory insurance for rural households.
Scenarios (b) and (.) show the . additIonal revenues that could be generated
by such systems and be uw,ed to develop the health sector.  While the study
does not constitute a definite ai,e.wet to the health financing problems, it
provides a sound .tnalytic frame'wori  for furtlher research, including:  (a)
linkage of health financInpg to !,etivice availability; (b) controls of
potential excessive heal h .!.ciuce tn.e; and (c) cost containment,
particularly for drogs.



- 31 -
3.34     The proposed subcomponent is developed along three lines of
research: (a) identification of more efficient and cost-effective resource
allocation schemes based on the analysis of the curre~nt expenditure
patterns by type of resource (unit costs), level of care, and geographical
area; (b) further development, in collaboration with the MOF, of the
insurance models, taking into consideration their technical feasibility,
their long-term upkeep, and their impact on equity issues (para. 1.38); and
(c) assessment through operational research nf the HCs self-financing and
self-management capabilities. The project will provide short-term
technical assistance (six man-months) and operation funds to: (a) prepare
alternative resource allocation schemes based on health care standards by
type of medical establishments; (b) finalize with the MOH, MOP, and MOF the
naitional health insurance model; and (c) experiment at the field level with
innovative self-financing and self-management schemes. In addition, the
project would benefit from the collaboration with the Pew Foundation Health
Policy Research Program which has selected Burundi as a recipient of a
grant to develop health financing strategies.4   This research would focus
more on alternative resource allocations, unit costs, cost-effectiveness,
and equity issues.  It was agreed during negotiations that, by January 1,
1989, MOH would present to IDA for review and comment a health financing
policy paper and a proposal to implement the recommendations (para.
7.02(e)).
3.35     Training.  The project will provide four fellowships (MA level) in
health planning, management, health statistics, and health economics for
MOH staff who will be the counterparts of the foreign technical assistants.
They will be responsible for developing MOH planning and management
capabilities and preparing the second IDA-financed project. In addition,
the project will support several study tours abroad for individuals who
will be identified during component implementatior. At the local level,
the project will support annual planning and management sezinars to be
organized jointly by a foreign management training group and a local
agency. Over a five-year period all high- and mid-level health system
managers (about 100 people) will have been trained in basic planning and
management techniques.
Population Data Development
3.36     The Government is preparing with UNFPA support the 1989 Census
Project. The main project objectives are to: (a) collect a comprehensive
set of data on the population characteristics and its living conditions;
(b) analyze and disseminate the results of these studies; (c) use these
data to develop a more specific population policy; and (d) integrate
demographic factors into the national intersectoral planning process. A
Census Bureau will be created in the Population Department of the Ministry
of Interior. This Bureau would be responsible for managing the entire
project. The core project phases are the following:
(a)   Mapping and Documentation.  The Census Bureau would prepare
maps and descriptive files for every inhabited site in the
4/The Pew Memorial Trust Fund is a US non-profit orbanization which
supports social programs in the US and the developing world.



- 32 -
country, including towns, collines, and sous-collines. This
task would be carried out in 1988 by 20 field staff
supervised by the Census Bureau. Ultimately, the country
will be divided into enumeration areas (about 1,000 people)
and enumeration districts (5 areas);
(b)   Pilot Census.  A pilot census would be carried out in August
1988 in 40 representative census areas to test census
questionnaires, field manuals, and mapping. The overall
census organization, staff training, and data processing
will also be tested;
(c)   Information.  Civil servants and the general public would be
informed on the usefulness and importance of the census.
The Population Department will use mass media, seminars, and
person-to-person contacts through the Ministry of Interior
network. The MOH would contribute to this effort through
the IEC program to be developed by the SDES (see para.
3.1 );
(d)   Staff Recruitment and Training.  A total of 5,100 field
agents, 2,100 district agents, 120 controllers, and 16
supervisors would be recruited and trained during the
project. The Census Bureau staff would receive a specific
training by technical assistants from UNFPA and US Census
Bureau in order to carry out adequately the numerous
"trickle down" training activities;
(e)   Enumeration.  Population enumeration would take place from
August 16 to 31, 1989. Al'. files will be transmitted to the
Census Bureau in Gitega for storage and processing. Two
weeks after the census, a post-enumeration survey would be
carried out to assess census coverage and data accuracy;
(f)   Data Processinz.  A preliminary hand tabulation would give
provisional results in December 1989. Codification and data
entry would be carried out in parallel and last for about 18
months. The demographic analysis would take about 12
months.  Final results would be published in August 1992;
and
(g)   Dissemination of Results.  The demographic and sociological
information gathered through the census would be widely
disseminated through publications and seminars. The
Population Department would stimulate the integration of
demographic factors into intersectoral economic and social
planning.
3.37     The IDA credit would finance:  (a) the additional personnel to be
recruited under the census project; (b) the series of seminars to be
carried out after publication of the census results; and (c) the
development of demographic and planning maL.z rials. A Master Plan (based on
the preliminary Plan ot Action transmitted to IDA in June 1987) is being
prepared by the Population Department with the technical assistance of



- 33 -
UNFPA and the US Census Bureau. It was agreed during negotiations that, by
March 31, 1988, the Census Master Plan would be submitted to IDA for review
and approval and would be updated annually thereafter; quarterly progress
reports on census activities would also be submitted t. IDA for review and
comments (para. 7.02(f)). It was also agreed that IDA approval of the
Census Master Plan would be a condition of disbursement under the credit
for census activities (para. 7.03).
3.38     The Census Project is part of the Government's global efforts to
improve the national demographic and vital statistics. In order to obtain
long-term reliable population and vital statistics, a closer collaboration
between the MOH statistical system (see para. 3.27) and the Ministry of
Interior Civil Regulation Services is needad. During the preparation and
development of this sub-component, several general recommendations for the
improvement of vital statistics collection and use by the Ministries of
Health and Interior have already been made. Further work is required to
develop in the mid-term (2-3 years) a more consistent system. It was
agreed during negotiations that, by January 31, 1990, a Plan of Action for
developing jointly the civil registration and vital statistics systems
would be submitted to ID'A for review and comments (para. 7.02(g)).
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIN;
A. Costs
4j01     On the basis of the six-year country disbursement profile and a
five-year implementation period, total costs of the project amount to FBu
2,294 million, or US$18 million equivalent. Base costs as of October 1987
are calculated at US$16.9 million equivalent (90%) and contingencies at
US$1.7 million equivalent (10%). Since goods and equipment for project
purposes would be imported free of custom duties and internal taxes, base
costs are net of tax liabilities. The estimated costs, expenditure
categories, and foreign exchange component, given in Annex 2, are
summarized in Table 4.1, below.
4.02     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project costs are estimated in August
1987 prices. Civil works costs are derived from current contracts from
similar constructions in the project areas, including construction financed
under the Third Education Project. Costs of equipment, vehicles,
furniture, and supplies are based on CIF unit prices on local market
prices, adjusted to include installation. Costs of training, applied
research, local and international consultants, fellowships, and other
services reflect local or international rates as applicable.
4.03     Contingency Allowance.  Physical contingencies are estimated at
10% for civil works and related professional fees, equipment, and
furniture. Estimated price increases (Table 4.2, below) are based on the
annual rates of price escalation from the base costs (August 1987) in
accordance with the implementation schedule (see Annex 3).



- 34 -
4.04       Foreign Exchange Component.   The estimated foreign exchange
component is US$9.8 million, or 54% of total project costs. It is based on
the expectation that: (a) all civil works contracts will be awarded to
local contractors with an indirect foreign exchange of about 60%; (b) about
402 of the furniture will be locally manufactured with an indirect foreign
exchange of 65%; (c) 60% of the furniture and 100% of equipment, vehicles,
and supplies would be imported; (d) a training component with direct and
indirect foreign exchange of about 20%; and (e) that about 80% of technical
assistance -vould be provided by foreign consultants.
TABLE 4.1s PROJECT COSTS BY EXPENI)ITURE CATEGORY
ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
%    Tota I
(FBu .000)                     (US8 .000)         Foroign  Bass
-ocai     ForeTn ots              LOcal  Forolun   lOtO   Exchange Costs
Investment Costs
C;vil Works               261,617    371,888      823,406    2,012   2,976    4,987      60      29
Furniture                  13,918      20,671      34,488      111     164      276      80       2
Equipment                      --    209,689      208,689       --   1,B62    1,862      100     10
Vehicles                       --      36,180      36,160       --     281      281      100      2
Material Development       39,320      38,608      77,829      314     308      822      49      4
Technical Assistanco       18,261    144,138      160,388      130   1,163    1,283      90       8
Training                   64,168     62,707      128,875      613     601    1,016      49      6
Studio3                    60,781     50,041      100,822      408     400      808      60       6
Research/Evaluation       162,864          --     162,864    1,221      --    1,221      --       7
Project Prep. Facility     28.826     71.376      100.000      229     671      800      71       6
Total Investment Costs     817,236  1,000,969   1,818,194    4,937   8,007   12,946       62      78
Recurrent Ccsts
Salaries                  188,000          --     160,000    1,828      --     1328       --      8
Audit                       3,270       3,222       8,492       28      26       61       60      0
Travel Allowanco           28,821          --      28,821      229      --      229       --      1
Utilities                  14,806          --      14,808      118      --      118       --      1
Office Supplies             4,122      4,082        8,184       33      32       65       60      0
Medical Supplies               --    173,382      173,362       --   1,388    1,388      100      8
Building Maintenance        2,783       1,176       3,969       22       9       31       30      0
Furniture Maintenance       4,641       1,918       6,469       38      16       61       30      0
Equipment Maintenance      27,263     11,611       38,767      218      92      310       30      2
Vehicle Op. and Maint.     11.627     46,438       66.968       92     383      466       0       3
Total Recurrent Costs      2C2.930    240.890      603.621    2.103   1.926    4.029       48     24
Total Baselino Coste       880,188  1.241.849   2.121.816    7.041   9.933   16.974        69    100
Physical Contingenies       26,368      48,299      71,668      202     370      673      e6       3
Prico Contingencios        117,948      31.899     149.848      943     263    1,197       21      7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS      1,023,473  1,319,648   2,343,122    8,187  10,667   18,746        68    110
====z3:=a=======^     ==.--==C=    c  :c= ===-=   =====
TABLE 4.2:  PRICE CONTINGENCIES
(M)
1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Local               8.0       5.0        6.0       6.0       6.0
Foroign             1.0       1.0        1.0       3.6       3.6



35
B. Project Affordability
4.05    The recurrent cost implications of the proposed project were
calculated assuming the following for the 1988-92 period: (a) a GNP growth
rate of 3% per year; (b) a declining share of Government recurrent
expenditure from 11% uf GNP in 1988 to 10.3% in 1992 (First Structural
Adjustment Credit recommendations); and (c) a constant share of 5.5% for
MOH in the government budget. Additional recurrent costs would include
salaries for additional staff, drugs, supplies, and operating costs for
supervision and maintenance, and would represent an increase of 8% of the
projected 1992 budget. Project affordability has to be considered in
relation to financial implications of other health sector investments
during the same period. These investments include the MOH new investments
(hospitals and health centers) and other ongoing (or planned) donor-
supported projects (UNICEF, UNFPA, EEC, AfDB, USAID, and other bilateral
aid) which have recurrent cost implications that are not currently fully
covered by the Government. The Project Appraisal mission, on the basis of
the draft 1987-92 health sector PIP/PEP (see paras. 1.34 and 1.35),
assessed the recurrent cost implications of the PHC investment program (see
Annex 1, Table 15). MOH's share of the total Government recurrent
expenditure would increase from 5% in 1987 to 5.7% in 1992, with an average
annual expenditure growth of 15.8% (in current terms), similar to the
average annual increase (16%) of the 1978-86 period. Such an increase
would be easily affordable, particularly since, in the meantime, additional
mechanisms of health financing would be developed under the proposed
project (see para. 3.33).
4.06    The Appraisal Mission also assessed the recurrent cost implications
of the total investment program (PHC and hospital sub-sector investments)
as initially proposed by the Government (see para. 1.36). Under this
assumption, the MOH's share would increase from 5% in 1987 to 7.7% in 1992,
with an average annual expenditure growth of 23%. Such an increase does
not appear realistic, even under a favorable economic situation.
Therefore, if this latter scenario were nevertheless implemented, a serious
risk would be that some operating funds be cut from priority programs like
MCH/FP to the benefit of hospital operating costs. Before negotiations, the
MOH submitted to IDA a revised health sector 1988-1992 PIP taking into
consideration the appraisal mission's reconmmsendations.  The program was
reviewed by IDA and found acceptable in the context of the overall health
sector development strategy. In additioni, in order to build a constructive
dialogue with the Governmcnt oni investment and expenditure issues, it was
agreed during negotiations that the revised three-year rolling health
5ector PIP/PEP would be reviewed annually with IDA not later than October
31 of each year of project iraplitmientation (para. 7.02(h)).  The annual
budget to be presented to the Nntlonai  Assembly would correspond to the
first yenr of the three-year budget.  ThIhs exercise would be carried out in
close coilaboration wjitlh the ong:ins; IDA-supported Structural Adjustment
Program whore all projects above US.S3 irilionri nre subject to feasibility
studJct' ptepared by Government and dnor,r.



- 36 -
C. Prolect Financing
4.07    An IDA credit of US$14.0 million would finance 77% of total project
costs (US$18.07 million), including 80% foreign exchange costs and 71% of
local costs. The Government would allocate US$2.3 million to the project
(13% of total cost). Parallel co-financing would be provided by UNICEF for
IEC material development, medical equipment, training and technical
assistance in MCH/FP and IEC, and accounting to US$1.8 million over the
project period (10% of project cost). USAID and UNFPA have also expressed
strong interest in participating in the project, but have not yet committed
any specific funding. If these additional USAID and UNFPA (or other
donors) resources become available during project implementation for
financing specific project components, the Government would have the
possibility of reallocating part of the credit to additional activities
after IDA's review and agreement on the proposed reallocation. Project
costs by financing source are shown in Table 4.3 below.
TABLE 4.3: PROJECT COSTS BY FINANCING SOURCE
(USn 1,000)
Government    IDA   UNICEF  Total
Investment Costs                         -
Civil Works                            6,816          6,815
Furniture                               307             307
Equipment                              1,298    440   1,738
Vehicles                                 299            299
Material Development                     434    240     874
Technical Assistance                     8865   460   1,316
Training                                 774    322   1,098
Studies                                  876            876
Research/Evaluation                    1,367          1,367
PPF                                      800            800
Total Investment Costs              12,822  1,462  14,274
Recurrent Costs
Salaries                      1,663                   1,683
Audit                           67                       67
Travel Allowance               131       131            282
Utilities                       07       68             136
Offtice Supplies                38       36              72
Medical Supplies               300      489    379   1,448
Building Maintenance            18        19             37
Furniture Maintenance           30       30              60
Equipment Maintenance          176       178            361
Vehicle Op. a Maint.           243       243            488
Total Recurrent Costs       2,920    1,172    379   4,471
TOTAL                          2,920    3,994  1,831  18,746
AS X                              15       76      10     100



- 37 -
D. Procurement
4.08     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4 below.
TABLE 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEmENTS
(US$ million)
Project Element          iCe        LC8         Other       NA        Total Cost
Civil Works                     5.81 (6.81)                        5.81 (5.81)
Equipment                                   1.73 (1.29)            1.73 (1.29)
Furniture           0.31 (0.31)                                    0.31 (0.31)
Vehicles                                    0.30 (0.30)            0.30 (0.30)
Tech. Asslit.                                           1.31 (0.80) 1.31 (0. 88)
Medical Dept.,
Training, studieo,
Research/Eval.                                          4.0 (3.44) 4.0 (3.44)
PPF                                                     0.8 (0.8)  0.8 (0.8)
Medical supplies    0.47 (0.47)             0.97 (0.00)            1.44 (0.47)
Other op.costs                                          3.04 (0.71) 3.04 (0.71)
TOTAL               1I 50.78)        (.81     T1 ]iTll)  §.l ?J1) 18.74 rE-I§ T3
Note: Amounts in parentheses represent IDA financing.
4.09     Civil Works.  Most civil works are scattered in remote areas and
are too small to attract foreign contractors except the ones who are
already established in Burundi. Therefore, civil works contracts would be
awarded following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to
IDA and in accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement. Contractors
would be prequalified. Given the current sluggishness of the construction
market, numerous competitors are expected to respond. In the event of a
major improvement of the situation, MOH may have difficulties in finding
contractors bidding for remote locations at reasonable prices. In this
case, HCs would be rehabilitated under force account with possible
participation of the BPE and/or the communities, and IDA would review the
procedures prior to authorizing construction under the force account.
4.10     Goods.  Since experience in Burundi has shown that MOH is
experienced in procuring medical supplies and furniture, these goods will
be procured through ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. Qualifying
domestic manufacturers would be given a 15% margin of preference or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Furniture which could not be
grouped in packages of more than US$20,000, but totalling less than
US$50,000, would be procured through local bidding procedures acceptable to
IDA. Contracts for miscellaneous goods amounting to US$100,000 equivalent
in total, will be procured through prudent shopping (at least three price



_ 38 -
quotations). As regard to Medical and Educational equipments and vehicles,
given the MOH's lack of experience in procuring these goods, UNICEF would
be appointed as procurement agent for MOH and would carry out the
procurement following ICB procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines. In
view of relatively small number of vehicles (21 cars and 15 motorbikes) and
their variety (pick-ups, 4-whell drive, passenger cars), limited tender
inquiry or international shopping (minimum 3 bids) would be used.
Procurement of vehicles would be limited to contractors who have or are
prepared to establish after-sale services and spare parts facilities.
4.11     Services.  The appointment of consultants would be done following
procedures that are satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Terms of reference and conditions of employment of consultants
as well as their qualifications would have to be satisfactory to IDA. The
selection of courses and candidates for the fellowship programs would be
submitted to IDA for review.
4.12     Bank Review Requirements.  Working drawings, draft tender
documents, master lists of furniture, equipment, supplies, and vehicles
with related cost estimates and prequalifications of contractors will be
reviewed by IDA. IDA review of tender documents prior to award would be
required only for contracts above US$200,000 equivalent for civil works,
and US$50,000 equivalent for goods. All other contracts would be subject
to review by IDA after the contract award.
E. Disbursement
4.13     Disbursement of the IDA credit would be as follows:  100% of cost
of civil works; 100% of foreign expenditure and 80% of local expenditure
for furniture, equipment, materials, vehicles, and medical supplies; 100%
of cost of training, consultants, and expert services; and 50% of non-
salary operating costs. The salaries of all additional health staff would
be financed by the Government.
4.14     Withdrawal applications for expenditures of less than US$20,000
will be submitted against statements of expenditure (SOE). All other
disbursements will be fully documented. The statements of expenditure
would be retained by the Borrower for inspection by supervision missions
and review by the annual audit. The Borrower would not ;ubmit applications
for reimbursement valued below US$20,000 equivalent.
4.15     The project would be completed in five and one-half years,
including six months to finalize accounts and submit final withdrawal
applications. It is expected that the loan would be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1993.
4.16     Special Accounts.  In order to ensure that funds for ?roject
implementation would be available when required, two special accounts would
be established with the National Bank of Burundi (BRB). Special account A
would be managed by MOH (BIP) to carry out the health-related activities of
the project. Special account B would be managed by MOI (Population
Department) to carry out the census-related activities of the project. A



- 39 -
revolving fund (US$150,000) has already been established during project
preparation and is operating satisfactorily. The initial deposit by IDA
would cover about three months' anticipated expenditure, estimated at
US$0.6 million far MOH, and US$0.15 million for MOI. This amount would be
available from the IDA credit account after credit effectiveness. The
special account would be replenished by IDA on the basis of documentary
evidence of payments for goods and services made by MOH. In addition, the
Borrower would also open in BRB a project advance account to cover three
months of Government contribution to operating costs and to be replenished
quarterly. The advance account would amount to approximately FBu4 million
in 1988, FBu 5 million in 1989, FBu9 million in 1990, FBull million in
1991, and FBu 12 million in 1992. It was agreed during negotiations that
establishment of these accounts and an initial deposit equivalent to
US$30,000 in the project advance account would be conditions of credit
effectiveness (para. 7.01(c)).
4.17     Accounting and Auditing.  The project will be subject to normal
governmental accounting procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. The MOH
Budget Division will be strengthened with a certified public accountant to
work specifically on the proposed pro4ect accounting. It was agreed during
negotiations that the recruitment by MOH of an accountant with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (para. 7.01(d)). Annual auditing would be required
for all expenditures financed under the project, with particular attention
to those expenditures reimbursed under SOEs. Auditing would be performed
by independent auditors acceptable to the association. It was agreed
during negotiations that audit reports would be submitted yearly to IDA,
within the six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year
(para. 7.02(i)).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Preparation
5.01     In November 1985, the Government received a US$550,000 PPF advance
and in January 1986 the MOH set up a multi-disciplinary preparation team
headed by the project coordinator of the Bureau of Inspection and Planning
(BIP). This team began to prepare the project on the basis of
comprehensive terms of reference jointly prepared by MOH and IDA. In
September 1986, a foreign technical assistant was recruited to assist in
project preparation coordination. Several working groups (involving about
60 local staff and students for research work) were established to prepare
specific components. Other donors (UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, AfDB, and WHO)
were involved at an early stage of preparation and some of their technical
advisors became part of the MCH/FP Committee in charge of developing the
national program (see para. 3.08). In addition, since August 1986, six
short-term international experts (health financing, MCH/FP, IEC, health
planning, health statistics, and architecture) ha,e contributed to the
project preparation on the basis of the preliminary work completed by local
consultants and health staff. The quality of the Government's project
documents reflects this thorough and comprehensive preparatory work.



- 40 -
5.02     Site Selection.  All sites for the project facilities have already
been selected by MOH. Most sites are already owned by the Government which
has initiated the acquisition of the necessary additional sites. It was
agreed during negotiations that, by June 30, 1988, all HC sites would be
acquired by MOH (para. 7.02(j)).
5.03     In July 1987 the Government received a US$260,000 PPF Phase II
advance to be disbursed between project appraisal and credit effectiveness.
The PPF Phase II would finance the following activities: (a) architectural
studies to: (i) complete the preliminary drawings for 10 additional HCs
(20 have been reviewed by the appraisal mission) and the related list of
equipment and furniture; (ii) prepare the final working drawings for the
project facilities (HCs and maintenance workshops), and the final lists of
equipment, furniture, and vehicles; and (iii) prepare all the related draft
bidding documents; (b) preparation of the final draft of the health sector
financial study with one man-month of technical assistance: (c) operational
support to the project preparation team through technical assistance
(project management, six man-months), and financing of operating costs
(local salaries, vehicle operation and maintenance, office supplies, rent,
and utilities); and (d) overseas training for the two IEC candidates
(starting September 1987). The completion of these activities will ensure
an effective start to the project in early 1988.
B. Organization and Management
5.04     The project will be implemented through the existing management
structure. The Minister of Health will have overall responsibility for
project implementation. The Inspector General of Health (head of the BIP)
will be the Project Coordinator. The BIP, which will be strengthened as
part of the Institutional Strengthening Component, will be in charge of
planning, monitoring, and evaluating project execution. The Inspector
General of Health will be assisted by a full-time deputy project
coordinator in charge of daily project management. During the first two
years of project implementation, this position will be fulfilled by the
technical assistant in health planning (see para. 3.30) who will be
responsible for training a local counterpart. It was agreed during
negotiations that, by January 1, 1989, the MOH would appoint a full-time
deputy project coordinator with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to IDA (para. 7.02(k)).
5.05     The two General Directorates (Public Health and Logistics) will be
responsible through their specific technical units for project activities
implementation. Both General Directorates have played an active part in
project preparation and are able to carry out all planned operations in a
timely manner. All key units involved in project execution (Health
Education, MCHI/FP, Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Budget and
Procurement, and Infrastructure Management) will be strengthened as part of
each component implementation. In order to ensure a smooth and consistent
implementation process, it was agreed during negotiations that, by October
31 of each year, the MOH would submit to IDA for review and comment the



- 41 -
annual project implementation plan starting October 31, 1988 (para.
7.03(1)).5
5.06     The MCH/FP component will be managed by the newly-created MCH/FP
Division (SDSMI/PF), under the supervision of the Hygiene and Prevention
Department. The Division staff will work in close collaboration with the
SDES in order to adequately phase service promotion and service
availability. In addition, the MCH/FP Division will benefit from the
support of the Personnel Management and Training Bureau which will be the
technical advisory unit for all in-service training activities. The
Director General of Public Health will be kept informed of the component
progress and will ensure a strong coordination between the central units
and tho services at the periphery.
5.07     The AIDS Control component would be managed by the STDs Control
Unit which is part of the Hygiene and Sanitation Division, under the
supervision of the Hygiene and Prevention Department. A project
coordinator has been appointed to monitor the AIDS/STDs Control Program
with the support of three WHO-financed technical assistants (health
planning, epidemiology, and IEC).
5.08     The IEC component will be managed by the SDES, strengthened as
described in para. 3.22. The specific MCH/FP-related IEC programs will be
reviewed with the MCH/FP Division and discussed during the meetings of the
National MCH/FP Committee (see para. 3.08). Other health education
programs will be developed in collaboration with the Hygiene and Sanitation
Division under the overall guidance of the Hygiene and Prevention
Department. Intersectoral coordination will be ensured by the liaison
officer (See SDES Organizational Chart).
5.09     The institutional strengthening component will be managed by the
BIP and the two General Directorates (Public Health and Logistics). The
BIP will be responsible for preparing overall plans of action and
coordinating technical assistance. The Public Health General Directorate
will be in charge of developing the national HIS through the Epidemiology
and Health Statistics Division. The Logistics General Directorate will be
responsible for developing the MIS and the budgetary procedures. In
addition, the BIP will develop the health financing strategies in close
collaboration with the Ministries of Planning and Finance.
5.10     The Population Data Development component would be managed by the
Population Department of the Ministry of Interior. A Census Bureau, part
of the Population Department, has been created by a special Presidential
Decree. The Census Bureau will be in charge of planning, monitoring, and
evaluating all census activities, and will be supported by long-term UNFPA
technical assistance. Short-term technical assistance would also be
available from the US Census Bureau and IDA.
S5The annual project and implementation plan for the end of 1987 (under PPF
Phase II) and for 1988 has already been reviewed by IDA and found
satisfactory.



- 42 -
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11     The BIP will monitor the progress of project implementation using
the information systems which will be developed as part of the
Institutional Strengthening component (see para. 3.31). Emphasis will be
on process indicators (Annex 1, Table 17), such as number of facilities
rehabilitated, number of health staff retrained, number of IEC campaigns
successfully carried out, etc. In addition, each component manager will
collect a set of selected indicators through specific studies (see paras.
3.16 and 3.24). The Project Coordinator will be in charge of collecting
all these data and preparing semi-annual program reports, highlighting
major implementation issues needing prompt resolution. These reports will
be approved by the Minister of Health before being submitted to IDA. In
addition, a technical Assistant in Health Administration will assess on a
yearly basis overall project performance, including project management. It
was agreed during negotiations that a project performance review, including
project management, would be carried out annually under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, and that the review findings and recommendations would
be discussed with IDA not later than October 31 of each year of project
implementation (para. 7.02(m)).
5.12     The specific impact of the project on the PHN status cannot be
measured given the multiplicity of external factors influencing morbidity,
mortality, nutrition status, and fertility. Therefore, it is implied that
effective implementation (as measured by the above-described monitoring
syster..) would assure desired impact. However, the project will benefit
from the results of the USAID-supported Westinghouse Population and Health
Survey to be completed by Sepcember 1988. This sur,:ey will provide
baseline data for key mother and child health and fertility indicators.
The project, through the development of the HIS, will contribute to
document changes in maternal and infant morbidity/mortality rates,
nutritional status, and contraceptive prevalence. In addition, under the
proposed project, an unallocated fund of approximately US$600,000 would be
available for further studies and operational research as new sectoral
constraints are identified through project implementation.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01     The project will have the following benefits:  (a) approximately
one million people living in underserved areas will have access to a full
range <Z essential PHC services; (b) nearly one million women of
childbearing age will have access to effective maternal care and family
planning methods; (c) about 800,000 under-five children will benefit from
effective nutrition services as part of a comprehensive MCH package; (d)
the entire nation will benefit from the increasing contraceptive prevalence,
which will ease the demographic pressure; (e) the spread of AIDS would be
reduced through the support to the National AIDS Control Program; (f) MOH



- 43 -
will benefit from institutional strengthening; (g) new sources of health
financing will be developed; and (h) the demographic database would be
improved and used for population policy development and socio-economic
planning.
6.02     The 30 upgraded/rehabilitated health centers will allow the
population covered by these facilities to have access to a full set of PHC
services. The communes will participate in the maintenance (and in some
cases the construction) of the HCs and, to some extent, in the management
of these centers. If successful, this approach will be reproduced in most
of the 114 communes to increase community participation in the health
sector.
6.03     The project, through birth spacing and referral programs at all
health facilities, will benefit women through the development of maternal
care which will help prevent numerous maternal deaths, delivery
complications, and unwanted pregnancies. The development of the IEC
program will play a key role in reaching poor and uneducated women through
their husbands and school-age children. For these women, access to
contraception will be one of the first steps toward more independence and
more possibilities of participation in other economic activities.
6.04     Children under five years of age will benefit from nutrition
activities, including growth monitoring, nutrition education, and nutrition
rehabilitation, to be carried out by health staff of all PHC facilities.
More children will be able to develop to their full intellectual and
physical potential.
6.05     The project will also address one of the major constraints for the
country's economic development: the population growth rate. The project
will contribute to a contraceptive prevalence target of 14% by 1992,
setting in motion a process that will gain momentum and lead to significant
fertility reductions by the year 2000 (from an approximate TFR of 6.1 in
1987 to 4.1 by 2000). As mentioned under the FP assumption (para. 1.08),
the accelerated population growth rate decline would have sizeable impact
on population size (9 million against 12 million by 2015), employment
needs, schooling, housing, health needs, and land availability.
6.06     The proposed project through its AIDS Control component would
contribute to address a major public health crisis. AIDS has the potential
to increase dramatically mortality and morbidity in a country where health
status is already poor. AIDS is also a costly disease through direct costs
(orevention and treatment of opportunistic infections) and indirect costs
(loss of productive years of life). At the moment, the disease cannot be
treated or prevented by immunization. However, transmission can be
effectively reduced by preventive measures (see paras. 3.19-3.20) to be
implemented urgently nationwide. IDA would be a major contributor to this
program which is already supported by WHO and other international agencies.
6.07     The project will address, through its institutional strengthening
component, three of the health system's most severe constraints: (a)
limited planning and management capabilities; (b) a health sector PIP
insufiiciently targeted toward health priorities; and (c) inadequate funds
for health service expansion.  The development of an effective HIS,



- 44 -
associated with the managerial strengthening of key units of MOH, will
allow health services to be better targeted toward health priorities,
priority groups, and to be delivered in more cost-effective ways. The
dialogue initiated on the PIP and further review of the PEPs will allow the
MOH to translate more effectively its priorities into adequate resource
allocation, taking into consideration the country's current and foreseeable
financial resources. In addition, financial studies (health insurance,
unit costs, ability to pay) and operational research (self-financing and
self-management at the periphery) will allow better financing of the
sector, taking into consideration efficiency and equity issues.
6.08     Finally, the project through its Population Data Development
component would address a key constraint to population policy development
and intersectoral planning. The timely and adequate completion of the
Population Census and related activities would allow the Government to rely
on accurate demographic data to develop quantitative demographic
objectives, population distribution strategies, and overall socio-economic
planning.
B. Justification
6.09     The rationale for IDA involvement is closely linked to the ongoing
national structural adjustment process and long-term social development
perspectives. Long-term IDA strategy for Burundi places emphasis on
creating an adequate economic and social framework for sustainable growth
for which the development of human resources is essential. In the short-
term, IDA supports a structural adjustment program in which population and
nutrition factors are important and a review of public expenditure, which
includes health sector expenditures. Thus, IDA involvement in the
populatiun, health, and nutrition sectors is consistent with overall IDA
strategy and would support Government program to control population growth,
increase health coverage, and improve financing and efficiency of health
services while strengthening institutions responsive for these services.
The proposed project would also serve as a catalyst for other aid in the
sector and contribute to overall donor coordination.
C. Risks
6.10     The project's main risk concexns the relative MOH inexperience in
implementing a project of this size. MOH administrative capability is
limited at both central and peripheral levels and may lead to subsequent
operating delays. The project is designed to address this risk by
distributing the Implementation responsibilities among various MOH units to
be strengthened under tne project by additional staff and technical
assistance. In addition, a new division has been created to manage MCH/FP
activities and the SDES has been reorganized. At the peripheral level, the
envisaged extensive in-service training and intensified supervision should
minimize the potential management shortcomings. Furthermore, certain
conmonly found implementation problems associated with civil works have
been potentially reduced through the thorough architectural preparation.



- 45 -
Finally, Government commitment, as already demonstrated by the thorough
project preparation, would be an important risk-reducing factor for all
project activities.
6.11     The second risk is related to the execution of the proposed
Population Census. This type of project is inherently complex and often
faces implementation difficulties and delays due to administrative and
managerial problems. However, in the case of Burundi, the fact that the
Population Department Senior Staff has already carried out successfully the
1979 Census is a strong asset. In addition, technical assistance will be
available from UNFPA, the US Census Bureau, and World Bank demographers.
6.12     The third risk concerns the implementation of the AIDS program
which will be one of the first national AIDS control efforts to be directly
IDA-supported. Since at the moment there are no definite standards,
guidelines, or models to develop an effective, nationwide AIDS control
program in an African country, some operational difficulties can be
expected. FuXthermore, the fact that the epidemiological characteristics
of the disease in Africa are not yet well-known makes the design of control
measures more difficult. To address these constraints, a coordinating
sys em between MOH, EEC, IDA, and other donors involved will be set up to
share information and adopt the control strategy under the overall
technical guidance of WHO which will closely monitor program performance.
In the long-term, contintity of external financing will be a key element
i for program success, since the control measures will be carried out for a
long time. In this context, IDA will contribute to WHO SPA efforts in
assisting the Government to monitor the financial aspects of the program
and, if required, to solicit additional external funding.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     It was agreed during negotiations that the following would be
conditions of project effectiveness: (a) a technical assistant in Health
Planning, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, would be
appoinced by MOH to support the BIP for at least the first two years of
project implementation (para. 3.30); (b) a technical assistant in He&tth
Architecture Programming, with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to IDA, would be appointed by MOH to support the BIP for at least the
first three years of project implementation (para. 3.30); (c) the Special
Accounts (IDA revolving funds) and a Project Account (Government
contribution) would be established at the BRB by the Government, and that
an initial deposit equivalent to US$30,000 would be made in the project
advance account (para. 4.16); and (d) an Accountant, with qualifications
a-nd experience satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed by MOH to assist in
project accounting and auditing during project implementation (para. 4.17).
/.02     It was agreed during negotiations that:
(a) MOH would recruit at least four additional nurses for every HC to
be rehabilitated under the proposed project (para. 3.13);



- 46 -
(b) 11 additional provincial public health supervisors would be in
place according to the following schedule: three by December 31,
1988, three by December 31, 1989, and five by December 31, 1990
(para. 3.16);
(c) by August 31, 1988 MOH would appoint as Director of SDEPS and
deputies the three individuals who would have received the PPF-
financed overseas training in IEC (para. 3.22);
(d) by March 31, 1988 the five-year National AIDS Control Program
would be submitted to IDA for review and approval (see para.
7.03), and would be updated annually thereafter (para. 3.28);
(e) by January 1, 1989 MOH would present to IDA for review and comment
a health financing policy paper and a proposal to implement the
recommendations (para. 3.34);
(f) by March 31, 1988 the Census Master Plan would be submitted to IDA
for review and approval (see para. 7.03), and would be updated
annually thereafter; quarterly progress reports on census
activities would also be submitted to IDA for review and comments
(para. 3.37);
(g) by January 31, 1990 a Plan of Action for developing jointly the
civil registration and vital statistics systems would be submitted
to IDA for review and comments (para. 3.38);
(h) the revised three-year rolling health sector PIP/PEP would be
reviewed annually with IDA, not later than October 31 of each year
of project implementation (para. 4.06);
(i) audit reports would be submitted yearly to IDA, within six months
following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year (para. 4.17);
(j) by June 30, 1988 all HC sites would have been acquired by MOH
(para. 5.02);
(k) by January 1, 1989 MOH would appoint a full-time deputy project
coordinator with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA
(para. 5.04);
(1) by October 31 of each year MOH would submit to IDA for review and
comment the annual project implementation plan, starting October
31, 1988 (para. 5.05); and
(m) a project performance review, including project management, would
be carried out under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and
that the review findings and recommendations would be discussed
with IDA not later than October 31 of each year of project
implementation (para. 5.11).
7.03     IDA approval of the five-year National AIDS Control Program (see
para. 7.02(d) above) and of the Census Master Plan (see para. 7.02(f)
above) would be conditions of disbursement under the credit for these
activities (paras. 3.28 and 3.37).



- 47 -
7.04     Subject to the above assurances and conditions, this project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 11 million (US$14
million equivalent) to the Republic of Burundi.



- 48 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 18
TABLE 1: POPULATION OF BURUNDI AND DENSITY BY PROVINCE--1985 ESTIMATES
Province    Population   Population   Density
( ,000)
Bubanza          187.1        3.98        171
Bujumbura        550.8        11.72       417
Bujumbura
(City)       190.0         4.0
Bururi           357.5        7.61        143
Cankuzo          123.0        2.62         63
Cibitoke         219.3        4.67        134
Gitega           558.6        11.89       271
Karuzi           246.0         5.24       169
Kayanza          429.7         9.15       349
Kirundo          340.2         7.24       199
Makamba          145.3        3.09         73
Muramvya         422.5        8.99        277
Nuyinga          299.6        6.38        164
Ngozi            454.1        9.66        307
Rutana           168.7        3.59         90
Ruyigi           196.1        4.17         84
TOTAL      4,698.5       100.00        180
SOURCE: MOH, AfDB project preparation team, 1986.



- 49 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 18
TABLE 2:   DEMOGLAPHIC PROJECTIONS--1980-2015
(_)
1980  1986  1990  1995  2000  2006  2010  2015
A, Dendency Ratio 1/
1.  Constant Fertility                              88    M9    93    98    96    93    92    93
2.  Gradual Fertility Decline                       sB    89    93    98    94    88    80    73
3.  Accelerated Fertility Decline                   88    89    92    90    83    73   a6    59
(in thousands)
1986-90  1990-95  1995-2000  2000-05  2005-10  2010-1
B. Average Annual New Entrants Labor Force
1.  Constant Fertility                               87.4      84.2    110.6       139.2    165.2    190.8
2.  Gradual Fertility Decline                        87.4      84.2    110.8       139.2    165.2    180.4
3. Accelerated Fertility Decline                      87.4     84.2    110.8       131.8    138.8    137.2
(in millions)
1980   1985   1990   1995   2000   2005   2010   2015
C.  Primary School-Age Population (7-12)
7  Constant Fertility                              0.622  0.703  0.855  1.058  1.239  1.420  1.643  1.958
2.  Gradual Fertility Decline                      0.822  0.703  0.866  1.058  1.239  1.399  1.513  1.622
S.  Accelerated Fertility Decline                  0.822  0.703  0.856  1.040  1.143  1.179  1.198  1.208
D.  Secondary School-Ase Population (13-19)
1.  Constant Fertility                             0.B87  0.691  0.780  0.917  1.138  1.368  1.584  1.804
2.  Gradual Fertility Decline                      0.887  0.891  0.780  0.917  1.138  1.365  1.563  1.701
S.  Accelerated Fertility Decline                  0.887  0.891  0.780  0.917  1.130  1.280  1.342  1.369
E.  MCH Population (Women 16-49 and Children 0-6)
1.  Constant Fertility                             1.808  2.129  2.471  2.840  3.284  3.842  4.522  5.357
2.  Gradual Fertility Decline                      1.808  2.129  2.471  2.840  3.229  3.631  4.086  4.491
3.  Accelerated Fertility Decline                  1.808  2.129  2.429  2.883  2.964  3.239  3.511  3.794
1/   The ratio of persons aged 0-14 years plus persons aged 86 years and
over to persons aged 16-64 years.
SOURCE: World Bank Projections, 1987.



o
v4
0
TABLE 3: PREVALENCE OF CHILD MAL?JITION IN BURUNDI FROM SELECTED SURVEYS
(children under five years of age)
W.nioht-for-Aoe 11    -Hiohot-Vpr-Aae 2/
Sample    Mild PCM    Moderate PCM   Sever. PCM         Mild        Moderate      Severe    Weight-for-He;ght
Commune/Rea;on   -u     Date    Size    PS-70% NorI    70-Zmom E0 NrNM r N           0-94% Ng     85-90% Norm      C        __I_ __   . o
1-2 s.d.      2-3 s.d.       <3 s.d.       (2 s.d.       <3 s.d.       (4 s.d.          2 s.d.
Urbn
Ngagarse        1973           1,192        90.8          28.1           2.27
Kinasa.         1975                                      36.0           6.6
Rural Commu-
nity Survevs;-
Ruyaga          1981             830        49.9          23.2           2.3           NA            16.2        NA                 1.9
O               Kinama           1986             545                      31             2.9
Cankuzo         1988             Beg                      45             4.0
Rusm
Iab* (North
A Center)     1983             822       39.7           26.9           5.6          69.0           20.3         6.?               3.2
Bututul         1984             472        37.9          24.7           7.4           61.7          21.8         7.8               8.6
Suyenaz         1985             154        28.1          39.3          12.4          81.9           32.5        16.9              12.2
TJ These data are classified according to the Comes classiflcation system which Identifies three incrossingly severe degrees
of malnutrition by by comparing weight-for-age to a referenced standard:  those children whose weight-for-age faIls between
76-968 of the reference median are mildly malnourished; those who fall between 00-758 of the median are moderately
)alnourished; and those who fail below 6OX of the median are soverely malnourished. The norms for mild and moderate cases
.2ed for the Burundi data are 70-86X and 60-790, respectively.
L  Informtion on height-for-age refers to chronic (long-term) malnutrition.  Children who fall below 90% (e.g., (2 s.d.) of
the reference height-for-age are said to be stunted.'
1/ The weight-for-height Indicator is a measure of acute (short-term) malnutritlon. Children who suffer from acute
malnutrition are said to be 'wasted' (e.g., less than 8OX of reference median weight-for-height).
= health center.
SOURCE: MOH, Nutrition Bureau, 1987.



- 51 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 18
TABLE 4: CONTRACEPTIVE PREVALENCE IN BURUNDI--DECEMBER 1986
Number of     Number of
Women      Women Under        Prevalence
Province   Population   Aged 20-45   Contraception            m
Bujumbura       565,782       96,183         6,869             7.1
Bubanza         193,109       32,829            170            0.5
Bururi          364,789       62,014            491            0.8
Cankuzo         125,724       21,373            340            1.6
Cibitoke        226,574       38,518             56            0.2
Gitega          548,016       93,162            951            1.0
Karuzi          251,376       42,734            323            0.8
Kayanza         436,297       74,170            818            1.1
Kirundo         348,515       59,248             99            0.2
Makamba         149,984       25,497            139            0.6
Muramvya        428,558       72,855            730            1.0
Nuyinga         306,106      52,038             612            1.1
Ngozi           463,500       78,795          1,078            1.4
Rutana          173,278       29,457             78            0.3
Ruyigi          200,789       34,134             42            0.1
TOTAL      4,782,407      813,009         12,796             1.6
Note: Only modern methods of contraception are taken into
consideration.
SOURCE: MOH, Hygiene and Prevention Department, 1987.



co
-4
x
4t) dl
TABLE 5:  HEALTH PERSONNEL DISTRIBUtION IN 8URUNDI
Neuro-                            Rural     Rural    Health   Health
Psychology              Regional Hospitals Hospitals Centers  Centers
CHUK HPRC CPLR   Center   Sanatorium Hospitals  (State)  (Mission) (State) (Mission) Other TOTAL
Number of Centers:                                              (3)      (17)       (4)      (119)1/   (63)
Number of Beds/Center:   220  582   91                              627     1,184        374
State Personnel
Doctors                     14   48  18       3           2          49        6B          e          e        4       4    206
Medical Technicians        21   50   30        1          2          52         56         8        107       37      13    337
Technical Assistants              5                       1           4         12                    3        1      14      39
Laboratory Assistants      11    1                                    4          1                                     6      23
Hoalth Assistants                      3                              8         25                   15        4              49
Hygiene Assistants                5            1                      6          8                   10               36      66
Social Workers              2    8    2        1                      1          4         1         11        7              30
Assistant Nurses           28   70   15        1          3          6s        118         7         92       23      11    410
Locally-Recruited
Personnel
Nurses                      4   11             1                      9          8         1          9      57               98
Medical Assistants                                                    1         3                    10                2      i8
Nurses Aids                26    7                        4           4         3S        34         25     108        2    137
Secretaries                 4          2                              3         11         6                           4     29
Typists                     5    6                        1           4        16                     1                8     39
0Plantons'                  4    4    1                               2         9          1          8               10     39
Assistant M;dwives           7   19    3                             12         28         8         18       67              93
Other                     108  182   83       7          s5        1le        461       l1         462     403       89    178
TOTAL                  221  408  164      16          62         331       813        173        780     701      177  3,134
/  Data wero available 'or 119 facilities out of a total of 136 state HC. and dispensaries.
SV'ZE:  Ministry of Public Health, Burundi, 1981.



00
-4
x 
c b
dr- P1,40                                               TABLE 6:  HEALTH STAFF DISTRIBUION IN HOSPITALS
Number of:                              RatioIlOO Beds:-
Beds     Doctors   Mod. Toch.lJ Aux.I 2/ Workers   Doctors   MSL Tech.1/ Aux.LI2  Workers   P.ersonnel
HPRC                       582      48           s0         107       84        8.2         8.d         18        14          70
CPLR                        90      18           37         21        25       19.7        33           23       27          169
CHUK                       220      14           21         68        31        6.3         9.5         31        14        1l0
Regional Hospital          827      49           80          98       48         7.8        9.5         18         7.3        53
State Rural Hospital      1734      58           99        205       235        6.7        17           20       20           47
Mission Rural Hospital    374        6            6         48        83        1.6         1.8         13       17           48
1/  Med. Tech. = Medical Technician, and takes into account both Hygiene and Laboratory Medical Technicians.
2/  Aux. I = Nursing Assistants, and includes Hygiene/Sanitation Assistants, Medical Assistants, and Birthing Assistants.
SOURCE: UOh, Project Preparation Team, 1987.



- 54 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 18
TABLE 7: HEALTH STAFF DISTRIBUTION IN HEALTH CENTERS
Number of
Number of Employees   Health Centers    %
1-3                          29           14
4-6                          72           36
7-10                         39           39
11-15                        16           16
16+                          20           20
NIA                          23           23
Average:  State Health Center   : 6
Mission Health Center : 13
Per Health Center      : 8
SOURCE:  MOH, Project Preparation Team, 1987.



- 55 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 18
TABLE 8:   OUTPUT FROM PARAMEDIC SCHOOLS--1982-86, AND
PROJECTIONS WITH THE THREE ADDITIONAL SCHOOLS--1987-91
Number of Graduates During           Number of Graduates During
the Past Five Years                  the Next Five Years
Category           1982   1983   1984   1985   1988   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Medical Technician            26     30      36     41      36     47      90    110    S50    1S0
Hygiene Technician             6      6              8       8     15      25.    18      15     16
Laboratory Tochnician1/        -      -       -      -      10     18      10     14      15     1S
Nursing Assistant*            19     19      23     35      55      -      70     80      80     8O
Health Assistants2/           14     18      10      9       3      -                             -
1/  The Laboratory Technician Section was openod In 1982.  The first claos  graduated in 1988.
2/ The Health Assistant Section was temporarily closed.
SOURCE: MOH, Project Preparation Team, 1987.



0
04
x
TABLE 9: 8ED OISTRIlTIOI BY FACIUTY AND PROVINCE
Population/
Percent  Hospital  Maternity   PHC   Total  Population/  Maternity  Maternity a PHC  Population/ P,:r.at;on/
ProvnYcL  PgutoII±On  PoDulati3n    Beds          Beds       Beds   Beds HosDitat Bad  PHC Bed         Beds         Uaternity        _C_
Bubanza         187.1       3.98         112      18       164    294       1,671          182         1,028           10,394        1,141
Bujumbura       650.8      11.72         713      96        87    896         773          183         3,010            5,738        6,331
Burur;          357.5       7.81         272     114       173   S69        1,314          287         1,248            3,136        2,068
Cankuro         123.0       2.62         136      46        51    233         904           97         1,268            2,674        2,412
Cibitoke        219.3       4.67          79      10        96    186      2,776           108         2,089           21,930        2,284
Citegsa         658.6       11.89        373     114       284    771       1,498          398         1,404            4,900        1,987
Koruzi          248         6.24          60      10        40    100       4,920           sO         4,920           24,600        6,1so
Kayanza         429.7       9.16         114      24       246    384      3,789           270         1,591           17,904        1,747
Kirundo         340.2       7.24          78      22       100    200      4,362           122         2,789           15,464        3,402
Mekamba         146.3       3.09          72      32       167    271      2,018           199           730            4,541          870
Mursmvya        422.6       8.99         218      93       152    463       1,938          245         1,724            4,543        2,780
Nuyings         299.8       6.38         147      25        70    242       2,038           95         3,154           11,984        4,280
Ngozi           454.1       9.86         364     109        26    489       1,283          135         3,384            4,166       17,465
Rutene          168.7       3.69          88      10        90    168      2,481           100         1,887           18,870         1,874
Ruyig;          198.1.       4.17        12      -a        106    28S       1167           166         1,181            3.268         L-QCi
TOT'L      4,698.6     100.00      3,148      783     1,862  6,783      1,493         2,835         1.7S3            8,001        2,537
SOURCE: MOH, AfOB Project Preparation Team, 1988.



Co
-4
t44
0
e o
TABLE 10:  TOTAL HEALTH SECTOR RECURRENT EXPEMDITURES, 198Z
(FBu, million)
Direct               MutuelIe
Ministry of   Ministry               Payments By                de la
Ministry    National    of Social   Ministry    Industry A   Social   Fonction  External
of Health   Education    Affairs   of2Defgns   Indji-%duals  Securtv  P ifi Ssue       A7d    i TrA
Administration                61                                                                                           51
CHUK                                     110                                   37                      22        ee       2-9
CPLR                         (60)                                              31                      37         70      138
Military
Hospital                                                       NA             0                      es5       NA       115
National, Regional,
and Rural Hospitals        726                                              (76)                     (9)       335    1,3e8
un                       Health Centers               247                                                                                          247
Misslon Hospitals
end Health Centers           5                                              210                                         215
Medical School                            68                                                                     80       136
Overseas Medical
Training                               16                                                                      55        70
Paramedical Schools           48                                                                                           48
Hygiene Education                                     9                                                                     9
Overseas Treatment                                                             NA          10                              10
Private Pharmacles                                                            300           3         351                 654
TOTAL                      1,077        181           9          NA           628          13         475       e00    2,983
TOTAL (as X)                36.0        6.0         0.3                      21.0         0.4        16.0      20.0   10.0
SOURCE:  MOH, Project Preparation Team, revised, 1987.



- 58 -
Annex 1
Page 11 of 18
TABLE 11t LIST OF PROPOSED PROJECT FACILITIES
Sanitary Province/Locat5gn    Tsye    Preliminary Drawing        Water Supply
HEALTH CENTERS
Bubanza
Rugazi                      CSB2          Completed                     Yes
Ntamba                      CSB2                  -         To be Confirmed
Bujumbura
Ruhinga                     CSB2                  -                     Yes
Ruyaga                      CSB2                  -                    1987
Mayuyu                      CSB1                  -         To be Confirmed
Bururi
Muyama                      CSB2          Completed                     Yes
Cankuzo                           -
Cibitoke
Rusenda                     CSB1          Completed                    1987
Mugina                      CSB1          Completed                     1987
Giaega
Buraza                      CSB2          Completed                    1987
Bugendana                   CSB2          Completed                     Yes
Makebuko                    CSB1                                    1988-89
Karu zi
Nyabikere                   CSB1          Completed                     Yes
Rugenyuzi                   CSB2          Completed                     Yes
Kayanza                           --
Kirundo
Gitobe                      CSB2          Completed                    1988
Kigina                      CSB2          Completed                    1987
Muakenke                    CSB2                                       1988
Makamba
Kayogoro                    CSB1          Completed                    1987
Muramvya
Nyabihanga                  CSB1                  -         To be Confirmed
Bisoro                      CSBI                                       1987
Cumba                       CSB2          Completed                      No
Mwakiro                     CSB2          Completed                     Yes
Ngozi
Murehe                      CSBZ          Completed                     Yes
Gatsinda                    CSB2          Completed                      No
Gasezerwa                   CSB2          Completed                     Yes



_ 59 -
Annex 1
Page 12 of 18
TABLE ll LIST OF PROPOSED PROJECT FACILITIES
(Continued)
Sanitary ProvincelLocation    Type    Preliminary Drawing        Water Supply
HEALTH CENTERS
Rotana
Giharo                      CSB1          Completed                     1987
Shanga                      CSB1          Completed                     1988
Gitanga                     CSB1                                        1988
Ruyagi
Rusengo                     CSB1                                    1988-89
Muliza                      CSBl          Completed         To be Confirmed
Nyabitare                   CSB1                  -         To be Confirmed
REGIONAL MAINTENANCE CENTERS
Bururi                                    Completed
Gitega                                    Completed
Ngozi                                     Completed



- 60 -
Annex 1
Page 13 of 18
TABLE 12t PROJECTION OF CONTRACEPTIVE USERS, CONTRACEPTIVE PREVALENCE,
AND BIRTHS AVERTED
1988     1989      1990       1991      1992
Users                            52,000   65,000   81,000   102,000   127,000
Contraceptive Prevalence (Z)        4.0       6.5       9.1       11.5      14.0
Total Fertility Rate (TFR)          6.0       5.9       5.7       5.6        5.4
Births Averted                   12,480   15,600   19,440    24,480    30,480
SOURCE:  MOH, Project Preparation Team, 1987.
TABLE 13: PROJECTION OF CONTRACEPTIVE METHOD MIX
1987   1992
Inlectables
Noristerat      52     10
Depoprovera      0     25
Pill              33     35
Condom             2      10
IUD                6     15
Others             7      5
tJote:  (a)  Depoprovera is less expent;ive than Noristerat and will be
promoted by MOH.
(b)  The use of comdoms may increase more than indicated given its
use as a preventive device against AIDS.
(c) Other contraceptive methods may be Introduced (e.g., ,i,plants).
!OLtRCE: IOH, Project Preparation Team, 1987,



- 61 -
Annex 1
Page 14 of 18
TABLE 14: DRAFT HEULTH SECTOR PIPIPEP* 1988-92
(FBu million, current)
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   Total
PHC INFRASTRUCTURE
Health Centers (Const./Equip.j
- Investment Costs (Total)               119.4   80.0   80.0   80.0   80.0   439.4
Community                            80.0   80.0   80.0   80.0   80.0   400.0
EDF                                  34.0                                   34.0
Netherlands                           5.4                                    5.4
- Recurrent Costs                                50.7   68.8   89.0  106.1   314.6
- Amortization                                    6.8    9.0   10.2   11.5    37.5
TOTAL                               119.4  137.5  157.8  179.2  197.6   791.5
Infrastructure Development Project 1/
- Investment Costs (Total)                      250.0  500.0  400.0  100.0  1250.0
AfDB                                        212.5  425.0  340.0   85.0  1062.5
MOH                                          37.5   75.0   60.0   15.0   187.5
- Recurrent Costs                                               63.0   96.0   159.0
- Amortization                                           11.0   11.6   12.0    34.6
TOTAL                                       250.0  511.0  474.6  208.0  1443.6
=5======  ===    2        ===C_ =
TOTAL INFRASTFUCTURE              119.4  387.5  668.8  653.8  405.6  2235.1
PHC PROGRAMS
Population & Health Prolect
- Investment Costs (Total)              335.0  566.0  335.0   31.0   27.0  1294.0
IDA
ODA
- Recurrent Costs (Total)                 59.0   77.0  114.0  149.0  172.0   571.0
IDA
Burundi
- Amortization (Burundi)                          4.0    9.1   11.4   12.4    36.9
TOTAL                               394.0  647.0  458.1  191.4  211.4  1901.9
Footnotes at erd of table.



- 62 -
Annex 1
Page 15 of 18
TABLE 14: DRAFT HEALTH SECTOR PIPIPEP, 1988-92 (Continued)
(FBu million, current)
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   Total
PHC PROGRAMS (Continued)
EPI/CCCD
- Investment Costs (Total)               190.2  190.2  190.2  190.2  190.2   951.0
UNICEF                              132.6  132.6  132.6  132.6  132.6   663.0
USAID                                48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   244.0
WHO                                   8.8    8.8    8.8    8.8    8.8    44.0
- Recurrent Costs (Burundi)                5.6    6.7    8.0    9.6   11.5    41.4
- Amortization (Burundi)                  12.0   25.0   38.0   52.0   55.0   182.0
TOTAL                               207.8  221.9  236.2  251.8  256.7  1174.4
TB Control
- Investment Costs (Belgium)              17.5                                  17.5
- Recurrent Costs                                 5.0    5.2    5.4    5.6    21.2
- Amortization                                    1.8    1.9    2.0    2.0       7.7
TOTAL                                17.5    6.8    7.1    7.4    7.6    46.4
S=-=-  ===== =====    ====  =-==7  ===-=1
TOTAL PHC PROGRAMS                619.3  875.7  701.4  450.6  475.7  3122.7
TOTAL PIP                                    662.1 1086.2 1105.2  701.2  397.2  3951.9
TOTAL PEP                                    738.7 1263.2 1370.2 1104.4  881.3  5357.8
1/ This AfDB-supported project includes: the construction of a National Public
Health Laboratory (50% of the investment) and a National Paramedical Institute
(302 of the investment) and the rehabilitation of health centers (20%).



- 63 -
Annex 1
Page 16 of 18
TABLE 15: RECURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS OF THE PROPOSED PIP
ON MOH RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
(FBu, million, current)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Government Recurrent Expenditures  21,528  24,542  27,732  31,050  34,476  37,924
MOH Recurrent Expenses With
Proposed PIP                      1,077   1,142   1,281   1,477   1,793   2,184
MOH Share of the Government
Recurrent Expenses (X)              5.0      4.6      4.6     4.7      5.2     5.7
NOTE:   The proposed PIP implies an average MOH expenditure growth of 15.8% per
annum, which is similar to the average growth for the 1978-86 period
(16.08%).
SOURCE: Appraisal mission, 1987.



- 64 -
Annex 1
Page 17 of 18
TABLE 16: SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(persons/month)
Component             1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    Total
MCH/FP
MCH Programming                12      12                                 24
MCH Training                    1       1       1                1         5
IEC
Planning/Management            6       12                                 18
Communications Expert          6        6                                 12
Institutional Strengthening
Project Management            12       12                                 24
Architect                      12      12      12                         36
HIS Expert                     2        1       1        1       1         6
Administration Specialist      2        1       1        1       1         6
Financial Analyst              2        1       1        1       1         6
Local Consultants              6        6       6        6       6        30
TOTAL                           61       64      22       10      10       167



- 65 -
Annex I
Page 18 of 18
KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
1986         1992
PROCESS INDICATORS
MCH/FP Component
- Number of HCs Rehabilitated                   -            30
- Staffing of HCs (additional)                  -           120
- Health Staff Retrained                      200         1,000
- % of Health Facilities Deliver-              55           100
ing FP Services
IEC Component
- Programs Produced                             _            30
- Campaigns Completed                           -            18
- Seminars Completed                            -            16
Institutional Strengthening
- Staff Trained in Management
Central                                  -            20
= Provincial                               -           80
- Development of HIS                            -      Completed
- Development of Health Financing               -      Completed
Policy
OUTCOME INDICATORS
Contraceptive Prevalence (%)                      1.6          14
Prenatal Coverage/l Consultation (%)             60            85
Deliveries Attended Medically (%)                17            27
Child Health Monitoring (0.23 months, %)         46            80
IMPACT INDICATORS
Maternal Mortality Rate                           -           -20%
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                125           100
Total Fertility Rate                              6.2           5.4



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of I
SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY PROJECT C04PONENT
(FRB  '000)
<   y                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fhvsscal
t          t           ~      STfFNGTHING                                               POPULATION      fROJECI                 Contxrger.cies
btH /C Ff    IEC PROGAM   AIDS CONTROL  IKStIT'JTIONAL     DATA      PREPARATION
rSERVICES       DEVT        PROGP.AM    STRENGTHENING  DEVELOPMENT   FACILITY        Total            Asount
::::z::;::z:8  :g:::s&::::*  85g::32,2Zs  cc=r:::   ::::=    ::-   :::=::::::      ::
I. INVESTMENT CMSTS
A. CIViL  MS                      623.406.5                    -                     -                          -    623,406.5   9.8 61,118.3
9. FURNttURE                        34,488.4            -             -               -            -                  34#420.4  5.0  14724.4
C. EQUIPMENT                       100,138.?    14P443.2       6594194        26,567.6             -            -    206.569.1   3.4  74057.5
0. VEHICLES                        23,266.8       4,424.4             -        7t469.4                          -     35,160.6  5.0  1,158*0
E. MATERIAL DWt                            -     40,619.8      33,195.0               -      4.014,4            -      77,829.1   0.0      0.0
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            369594.0      26,667.9             .       97,126.6             -            -    1604388.5  0.0        0.0
G. TRAINING                        2t,145.0      17,653.0      67,043.4       17,034.3                          -    126,875.7   0.0       0.0
H. STUDIES                          32137.2      314231.2             -       37,454.2             -            -    100,822.6   0.0       0.0
I. RESEARCH AND EVALUATION                              -      33,63.6                     118,970.6            -    152,654.1   0.0       0.0
J. PRJCt PREP FACILITY                     -            -             -               -            -    100,000.0   100,000.0   0*0        0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               8754176.7    135.039.6      199"341.3      185,652.1    122,984.9   100,000.0  It6184194.6   4.4 71,658.2
tI, REC    N COStS
A. SALARIES                      115,689.6      14,935,0      244252.2       11*124.0             -            -    166,000.8   0.0       0.0
8. AUDIT                                  -            -             -        6492.9              -            -       ,492.9  0.0        0.0
C. TRPAEL ALLONANCE                5v471.9       5t469.3       6,736.7       10,943.8             -            -     28621.6  0.0        0,0
D. UTILITIES                             -             -             -       14,306.3             -            -     14,806.3   0.0       0.0
E. OFFICE SUPPLIES                       -             -             -        84184.1             -            -      8,184.1   0.0       0.0
F. EDICAL SUtLIES                173362.0              -             -              -             -            -    173t362.0   0.0       0.0
G. 8EDG MAINTENANCE                3.959.5                                          -             -            -      3,959.5   0.0      0-.
H. FURN MAINTENANCE                6,459.9             -             -              -             -            -      6459.9   0.0        0.0
1. EQUIP MAINTENANCE              13599.9        1,417.7      16695.1         705S.0                           -     38,767.8   0.0       0.0
J. VOl OP AND  AMINT              40,82.7        7t019.0             -        9,119.7             --                  69966.3   0.0       0.0
Total RECRENT COTS                   3S9371.5       28,841.0      47,684.0       67.724.7             -            -     03,621.2   0.0       0.0
fotal 8ASELINE COSTS                1,234543.2    163.880,7       247.025.3      253*376.7   122,984.9    100,000.0  ,121,815.8   3.4 71,658.2
Phnstcal Ctotirdertes               69,013.0         943.4             -         1t701.9            -            -     71,68.2   0.0        0.0
Price Cozt6nlcoes                   899046.3    10,029.4        224091.2       15,824.4    12P656.8                   149,648.1   2.7  44047.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                 13M 607.4    174s83.5         269,116.5      270s903.0   135t641#7   100,000.0 o2343#122.1   3.2 759706.1
z=mX2vvX=   v==X=vstr#    XX=Ka=z vwt#ts=vr:2S3t:  s::-  rt    :=s=                     =:::    t:5:=
Foreign Exchange                   857,8.4    101,190.3        110,832.3      176,429.9       1,971.0     71,375.0  1l319t648.8   3.6 47,351.1
Noveabet 3, 1987 18:03
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
Totals Inclujding Contingencies                           Totals IncludinC ContingieLwes
(FR8 '000)                                                (US$ '000)
~ ~ ~ ~       --             - --    --     -----------------      ~     -----
18        W9        90        91        92        Total        86      89      90      91       92     Total
89 :X   tstr  :a  s:S:s  :::   ::::5_;_    :::   o::   ::C  :it  :v:  str5::
SRENGTHENIKNG NCR   F? SERVICES    217,999.6 343,184,8 38.9363.2 304,862.1 137t297.3 1s392.v7.4  1 ;43.2 2145.5 3114.9 2*t438.9 l098.4 11.140.?
D. IEC PROGRM DEVT                      45,563.5  69W24*.1  20,9.2.4  20.368.6  181714.8   174,853.    'G4.5  554.3   167.4   162.9  149.7  1.398.0
C. AIDS tMONML PGRkM                    8.96.2  5930,4  41,049.7  42t,97.3  44s863.   269,116.5    048.0   474.6  3:8.4   342.9  358.9  2152.9
D. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGWTnE4n           69,162.6  69,003.0  52t927.4  46,665.3  322944,6   270,903.0    v51.3  552.0   423.4   374.9  263.6  .1167.2
E. POULATIH DATA DEiJELOFMENT            59273.5  68,1.6,0  34,194*3   349,o.5   *117.3t  135.641.        4i.2   7cs.0  21736    11.4    32.9  11085.1
F. PFOJECT PMFAATICN FAILITT           100,000.0         -                    -         -   100,000,0    3i-i-i                               -    800.0
Total FPOJECT COSTS                      m11e9,2.5 623,948.3 538,456.0 4188E83.9 :37:v91.4. :s3411.22. 411.2'.   54011.6 4.307.6 3*351.1 1900,5 19,445.0
…-…;…'s…D …:5T:
_-__--_--_-__  _-_-_-_-_-_-,-_-_-_-_  _-__-_-_--___-__ - ------- ------ ------ ------ ----- ------------ ------ ------ ----- ------ - _ _ _ ______- -----



- 67 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
MCHIFP COMPONENT
Civil Works
CSBl/Equipment/Furniture                   3      6       5      -       -
CSB2/Equipment/Furniture                   4      8       4
Maintenance Workshop                       1      1       1
Training
MCH Fellowship (12 months)                 I       1      1
MCH Seminars (in-service training)         1       1      1      1       1
Maintenance Training                       1       1
Produce Teaching Material                  x      x
Technical Assistance
MCH Programming (24 man-months)           12     12
MCH Training (5 man-months)                1       1      1      1       1
Staffing
Director of the MCHIFP Directorate         x-----------------------------
HC Staff (additional)                      -     28      56     36      -
Supervisors                                3      4       4      -
Maintenance Personnel                      -      3       3      3       -
Studies
Baseline Data (maternal mortality)       xxxx
Monitoring MCH/FP Activities                    xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Contraceptive Supplies
Needs Assessment (contraceptive mix)   x        x      x       x      x
Supplies                                 xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Vehicles
4-WD:  MCH/FP Directorate                  1
4-WD:  Provincial Offices                  5      5
Motorbikes                                 7      4       4
4-WD Pick-up                               2      2



- 68 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(continued)
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
IEC COMPONENT
Training
National Seminar (1)                             x
Provincial Seminars (15)                          xxx
Fellowships                                 2      1
Study Tours (5 people each)                        1       1      1       1
Technical Assistance
Planning/Management (18 man-months)         6     12
Communications Expert (18 man-months)    6         6
Staffing
Directors (1)                             x-------------------------------
Deputies (2)                                 x----------------------------
Journalist (1)                             x------------------------------
Studies
Sociological Constraints to FP              xx                          xx
Audience                                   xx
Inventory (IEC equipment)                xx
Material Development
Video (plays)                               2      2       2      2       2
Audio (programs)                            4      4       4      4       4
Print Material                           xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Equipment
Video (provinces)                                 15
Audio (communes)                                 114
Central Office                            xxxx
Vehicles
4-WD:  Central Office                       2
Passenger Car:  Cental Office               1



- 69 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(continued)
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Traing
Fellowhips (planning/management)            1      1       1      1
Seminars                                    1      1       1      1       1
Study Tours                                 1      1       1      1       1
Technical Assistance
Project Management (24 man-months)         12     12
Architect (36 man-months)                  12     12      12
Local Consultants (30 man-months)           6      6       6      6       6
HIS Expert (6 man-months)                   2      1       1      1       1
Administration Expert (6 man-months)        2       1      1       1      1
Finance Expert (6 man-months)               2      1       1      1       1
Staffing
Public Health Specialist (BPI)              1-----------------------------
Accountant (project management)             1-----------------------------
Support Staff (project management)          2------------------------.----
Workers (project management)                3------------------------.----
Studies
Health Insurance Schemes                  xxxx
Self-Financing/Management                 xxxx
Discuss & Implement Recommendations              xx-----------------------
Equipment
Central Office (computers)                  3
Provincial Office (computers)               5      5       5
Vehicles
4-WD (central office)                              4
Passenger Car (central office)                             1



- 70 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of I
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS--WORLD BANK STANDARD CURVE
(US$ '000)
Accumulated
Disbursement      Accumulated   Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year/Quarter End   During Quarter   Disbursement             (
FY88
March 31, 1988                     460                460              3
June 30, 1988                      250               710               4
FY89
September 30, 1988                 570             1,280               8
December 31, 1988                  470             1,750              11
March 31, 1989                     900             2,650              18
June 30 , 1989                     580             3,230             22
FY90
September 30, 1989                 790             4,020              28
December 31, 1989                  690             4,710              33
March 31, 1990                     790             5,500              39
June 30, 1990                      800             6,300              45
FY91
September 30, 1990                 680             6,980              50
December 31, 1990                  920             7,900              57
March 31, 1991                     800             8,700              63
June 30, 1991                      800             9,500              69
FY92
September 30, 1991                 790            10,290              75
December 31, 1991                  690            10,9'80             80
March 31, 1992                     590            11,570              84
June 30, 1992                      680            12,250              89
FY93
September 30, 199"                 470            12,720              92
December 31, 1992                  470            13,190              95
March 31, 1993                     410             13,600             97
June 30, 1993                      400            14,000             10(
NOTE: Total Project = US$ 18,070,000
IDA Credit = 77 of Total



- 71 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of I
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1. Beghin, Douchan, MCHIFP Consultants Report, Appraisal Mission, April
1987.
2. Government of Burundi, Project Preparation Documents: Health Financing
Analysis (February 1987), MCH/FP (December 1986), HIS (Janur.ry 1987), IEC
(March 1987), Administration (December 1986).
3. Hubert, Bernard, Architect's Monitoring Paper, Appraisal Mission, April
1987.
4. Lioy, Michle, IEC Consultant's Report, Appraisal Mission, April 1987.
5. Rasera, Jean-Bernard, Economic Consultant's Report, Appraisal Mission,
April 1987.
6. World Bank, Burundi PHN Sector Review, July 1983.
7. World Bank, Burundi Country Economic Memorandum, January 1984.
8. World Bank, Burundi CEM, Structural Adjustment and Long-Term Development
Issues, April 1987.
9. Republic of Burundi, Project Proposal, July 1987.



c'J
0
'0
x  9
a '
CHART 1: MOH ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
MINISTER
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT                                             BUREAU OF INSPECTION
AND TRAINING     I                                                AND PLANNING
DIRECTOR GENERAL OF                                              DIRECTUR GENERAL OF            GENERAL DIRECTORATES
PUBLIC HEALTH                                                       LCGISTICS
t  HEALTH                      HYGIENE AND                        WUET AND                  INFRASTRUCTURE       = OEPARTVENT
SCRVICES                         PREVENTION                      PROCUREMENT                  MANACEUENT
CURATIVE      EPIDEMIOLOGY      HEALTH                   IN  ANiDMEN                         INFRASTRUCTURE         ANI       DIVISION
SERVICES           AND        EDUCATION               SANITATION                   SUPPLY     AND E(UIPMENTT
AND           HEALTH
LABORATORIES     STATISTICS
o To be created under the project.



0
'44
x 
CHAET 2:  SDEPS ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
DIRECTOR I/
(PLANNINC, SUPERVISION, COaRDINATION)
ASS N  *RLAISONS        ASSISTANT EIRECTOR 1/
IEC SPECIALIST)                                            OFFICER  [f (EVALUATION, MONITOPINC)
T nHEATER/   RAD102/  TTELEVISIONV] AUDIO-YISUAL|   PRINTED          ELECTRONICS         SECRETARYI 
AUDIO-I                                SPECIALIST2    MATERIALSI/    TECHNICIAN
TWO SWAHILI                                                    INTERSECTORAL                   15 SCH//P SUPERVISORS
INTERPRETERS                                                    COORPINAT1N
1J   Personnel chosen for these positions must be recruited and troined abroad.
2/ Personnel already in place. They only need retraining according to theIr tasks, which cou;d be followed by
st.udy/field trips.
3/   A new position needed to be filled by a journalist trained in MCH/FP.
AlJ This position could be assumed by a team aIready in place and currently receiving audio-visual troining in Douala.
J/  This position could be occupied by the present Director of SDES.



MAP SECTION



BURUNDI
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE
Population and Healthi Project: Health Centers Network                                                                                            RWANDA
Projet Sante Population: Reseau des Centres de Sante                                                                                            R
Project Health Centers                       Provice CopitOls
O   Centres de Sanot du Projet                   Capftales des Provixces                                             .J
®  Nctionol Capital                                                                 I                      0.
Health Centers                               Capit4le dre PEWGiteq\i
/   Centre. de Sonate                        Protince Bumdadres
Ltmites des Provinces
A     Regionol Maintenance Centersn         _ _  intert onfl Boimdoaries                                    oJ'
"    Uz Ate1ie  Regionoux de Maintenance            fren f=-res Intevtaiortales *
T -/ i             (+n   / . TANZANIA
RwaombGIeo (2                                                                                            Kan romgarto b1
t~~~~~ ,- -.; K70.c                                                                                                   .s    S e   (
i ! ~~~wCno~                                                         t-;-_-         hrt-eeib                   q             MUYN       /I
R           ~Bwebo  Kbobrome.     *          gtj r,(OMArw 
Olo °<-%-ti Grmnbo                                                                       * 3wa<)   
boMtgo* -                              M2bug3. .                     G       h      no   *Nyaruol                  ~               . ,R'
-1° ~ ~~~~~~~~ (oMimn-    *d9                                                                                                                     Mugera
(                         M  bohto . ba.4t  K0 
lmngef.Myet                             OQ
ZAITRKE          )   . o--
MURbMg YA                                      MO_.  I                      * ,
)  'Gatuuba                                                                                       Kwesif'                    Cerui n
~~~~~. ----,  Rue                        *                                 aa.rj   e- I



~~~~~~~~ed.                                                                    _               w_7
/ tU&not                      Bo 'f*,b                     '                         '':'i h-
ZAIRE   (                   * ,_                          _   ,,                                                                                 '1
CANKUZOO 
MI "A  *bMb Kigottdo'                                                                         7.-..
\ BUJUMBURA                  ktAfN
}hlMtmb   -      M4et)        * G..o         NyOMbtob                                             (1CMei
wb.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
*                      -             '*                   *tt 60    J                                           }
{        b o v         (      e                 ye     >1            >,   ,    *  *KoC           MII C
\ ,o .Sclv~~~~~~Mbodo 
*  6>ZAANA         !
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UAP                                                                                             Ki NYA 
* r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUR  v I 
i'    '   '~~~~~~~ _  12                                1         l~~~~~~ANZAN;A                   o
i   :2  |                                   t                                   .                                     . N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O



2                                 -.                                            IBR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 20141
POPULATION AND,HEALTH PROJECT                                w         A        N                  A             (
PROJET SANTE POPULATION
POPULATION DENSITY/ DENSITE DE POPULAT ION
,,49. 'Ai '. r                     A' X  4' 'A  .                                                           J- .f  _ . ('_J
s    f!' ~~48.   M: '. gf  @   rH A.  -A- A.A(  b,Ft,fs          '                    '   -       '
-M 'f
BA,_ _  N S@ If. IrandN EB /
(    ~ ~~ /-;-,,_  . 
J f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\                                       j-_*,._.
!           e                                     R ,FZe,
]   i                     )                           /              i)'Or>i2Zfu       tv~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,  ,1_   9  0            (                          /          \                       j      }~~~~~~~~
!   r       MQ,ormro    \                        /                               >._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
!   t  9                 \                   t                         t_/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ri                                  /                    ~~~~~~~~~~~/
\       S                    /    02;~~~~~toro     J         _      ,F .z2 -
'\~~                           ~~~~~              -  '''.' I;       4"
|                              _'                     ,    ' . . . ..'J.t    A'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*I,  _a    I'
-*.i                  -. ~~iA' Li~~ILLNOVEMBE 987



