Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15538
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1862-BU)
APRIL 16, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. [ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1862-BU)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Burundi Franc (FBu)
(Period average, US $ 1 equivalent)
1987 =  FBu 124
1988 =  FBu 140
1989 =  FBu 159
1990=  FBu 171
1991 =  FBu 182
1992 =  FBu 208
1993 =  FBu 243
1994 =  FBu 253
1995 =  FBu 257
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
AIDS           Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
BIP            Bureau de l'Inspection et de la Planmfication
CPR            Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
EPI            Expanded Program of Immunization
EPISTAT        Health Information Service
FP             Family Planning
GPA            Global Program for AIDS
HC             Health Center
HIS            Health Information System
HIV            Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA            International Development Association
EEC            Information, Education and Communication
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MOI            Ministry of Interior
MOPH           Ministry of Public Health
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PDP            Programme de Depenses Publiques
PHC            Primary Health Care
PIP            Programme d'Investissements Publics
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WHO            World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1862-BU)
CONTENTS
PREFACE ...... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                        .I
A. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives .1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                          .2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project           .5
D. Project Sustainability                                                                   7
E. IDA Performance                                     .7
F. Borrower Performance                                  .9
G. Assessment of Outcome .10
H. Future Operation.1.1
I. Key Lessons Learned .12
2. STATISTICAL TABLES .13
TABLE 2-1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .13
TABLE 2-2:  RELATED IDA CREDITS .........................................................     14
TABLE   2-3:  PROJECT  TIMETABLE  ...........................................................   15
TABLE 2-4:  CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............... 15
TABLE 2-5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................................... 16
TABLE 2-6:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ........................................................ 17
TABLE 2-7:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .........................................................  17
TABLE 2-8:  PROJECT COSTS .........................................................           18
TABLE 2-9: PROJECT FINANCING ................                                                 19
TABLE 2-10: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .20
TABLE 2-11: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS IN CREDIT AGREEMENT                          .21
TABLE 2-12: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .24
TABLE 2-13: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .24
TABLE 2-14: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



3. APPENDICES .....................                                                                                                               26
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire ...........................                                                                                         26
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR ...........................                                                                               32



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1862-BU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Population and
Health Project in Burundi, for which Credit 1862-BU in the amount of SDR 11.0 million
was approved on December 15, 1987, signed on February 9, 1988, and made effective on
July28, 1988.
The Credit was closed on September 30, 1995, about two years later than the
original closing date. Final disbursement took place on November 21, 1995, when the
remaining balance of SDR 0.6 million was canceled. Apart from the government's
counterpart contribution of US$2 million (compared with the appraisal estimate of
US$2.92 million), cofinancing for the project was provided by UNICEF for US$0.8
million equivalent (compared with the appraisal estimate of US$1.83 million). In addition,
the Global Program for AIDS of WHO contributed during the project period US$4.76
million to the component "Support to the National AIDS Control Program", and the
savings made were used to financc a greater number of health centers and additional
offices for MOPH.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Michele Lioy of the Population and Human
Resources Division, Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa Region. It
was reviewed by Mr. David Berk, Chief of the Population and Human Resources Division,
and Mr. P. Hari Prasad, Operations Adviser of the Central Africa and Indian Ocean
Department.  Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/
completion mission in September 1995. It also uses extensively material in the project file
and the results of the beneficiary assessment study that was carried out in late 1995. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the
mission's aide-memoire (Appendix A), preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution (Appendix B), and commenting on the draft ICR.
The assessment of the project's success, and therefore the preparation of this ICR,
were made particularly difficult by the disastrous consequences of the October 1993
military coup attempt and the political crisis that followed. As discussed in this ICR, the
project brought about a number of improvements and in the quality of the health services
in coverage by the health care system, and some of the objectives had been partially
achieved before the crisis. Nevertheless, since many of these gains were reduced because
of the crisis, the achievement of project objectives by the time of the closing of the IDA
credit can only be assessed as negligible (for the financial objective) or partial, except for
one objective that was achieved.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT 1862-BU
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    The first IDA operation in the sector, the Population and Health Project was an
integral part of Burundi's Fifth Development Plan (1988-92) and complemented other
donor assistance in population, health and nutrition. The project built on the Health and
Population Sector Report of July 1983 and the subsequent dialogue on population issues
which contributed to the development of a new awareness of demographic constraints. It
also built on the experience of other donors (UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, WHO) who
were already active in the sector, and focused on interventions which were too weak or
neglected by all donors, e.g., child nutrition, maternal health, and family planning (FP).
Project Objectives
2.    According to the development credit agreement, the objectives of the project were:
(i) to contribute to the reduction of maternal and child morbidity and mortality; (ii) to
promote birth spacing and strengthen the National Maternal and Child Health and Family
Planning Program; (iii) to assist in controlling the AIDS epidemic; (iv) to improve the
overall effectiveness and efficiency of the health system; and (v) to improve the
demographic data base needed for socio-economic planning. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) included some quantitative objectives for reducing maternal and infant mortality
and for reducing fertility. The objectives were to be achieved through the implementation
of five components: (i) the strengthening of MCH/FP services; (ii) the development of an
lEC program; (iii) support to the National AIDS Control Program; (iv) the institutional
strengthening of MOPH; and (v) population data development. Although the objectives
were never formally changed during implementation, the component of support to the
National AIDS Control Program was for all practical purposes dropped from the project,
following the decision of other donors, particularly WHO, to finance it and the
reallocation to other components of the proceeds of the IDA credit earmarked for that
component (paragraph 1.1).
3.    The development credit agreement included special covenants to promote the
achievement of project objectives. These related to: project performance reviews and
implementation plans; three-year rolling programs of investments and recurrent
expenditures for the health sector; the acquisition of sites and the recruitment of additional
nurses for health centers; the appointment of a manager and two advisors for the Health
Education Division; the employment of two technical assistants (in health planning and
architecture) to support the BIP (Bureau de l'Inspection et de la Planification) of the
MOPH and of a Certified Public Accountant to assist the budget division of MOPH; the



Evaluation Summary                                                          iii
preparation of a five-year National AIDS Control Program; the appointment of
multidisciplinary health supervisors in the provinces; the preparation of a policy paper on
health financing; the preparation of a census master plan and of a plan of action for the
improvement of national demographic and vital statistics; and the appointment of a full
time deputy project coordinator to assist the inspector general of health (Table 2.11).
4.    The project's objectives were important for Burundi and its health sector in view
of the country's high maternal and child mortality. MOPH strategy to develop a strong
family planning component in the MCH program was a sound one considering the high
population density and fertility rate in Burundi. Since the Government had decided to give
priority to the development of a comprehensive population program designed to reduce
fertility and population growth, the project was responsive to changes in Burundi's
circumstances and priorities. The objectives were also important for IDA's country
assistance strategy which aimed inter alia at filling major gaps in the overall provision of
external assistance. The project was relatively complex and very demanding for MOPH.
The quantitative targets for reduction in mortality and fertility rates were too ambitious
and difficult to achieve in the time frame of a five-year project, even if the political
situation had remained stable (paragraphs 1.2 to 1.4). The design of the project was
generally appropriate for achieving the objectives with respect to MCH services and
institutional strengthening, but much less so for AIDS control (paragraph 1.9).
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    In October 1993, the Project (although somewhat delayed) was about to achieve
some of its objectives, at least partially. Important gains had been made because of the
Project, gains which have had a lasting impact (paragraph 1.17). The MOPH, which has
been capable during the crisis to coordinate, with the help of WHO, emergency aid, is still
functioning satisfactorily despite the difficult country situation; health sector personnel
have been trained; systems have been put into place, and 41 health centers have been
rehabilitated or built. All of those aspects of capacity building, which are key in a first
operation, constitute elements of sustainability.   The objective to improve the
demographic data base needed for socio-economic planning was achieved. However,
mainly because of the crisis, the success of the project as a whole and of most of its
components in achieving their objectives is.either negligible (financial objective) or partial
at the time of the closing of the IDA credit. The project activities were indeed very
seriously affected by the disastrous consequences of the October 1993 military coup
attempt and the political crisis that followed. Starting in October 1993, Burundi's health
sector was almost paralyzed for nearly a year because of the insecurity and of the political
uncertainty prevailing throughout the country. Large numbers of personnel fled to safer
zones or were killed, and many Rwandese health personnel returned to Rwanda after
fighting ended there, leaving health facilities inadequately staffed. Equipment, supplies
and vehicles were often vandalized or stolen and national distribution channels
deteriorated. The Government remains committed to improving the health status of the
population and the national health policy is still promoting sectoral reforms, including
decentralization of the health system and the introduction of new financing mechanisms of
the health sector that would increase the participation of communities. In the second



iv                                     ICR - Burundi: Population and Health Project
semester of 1994, the MOPH started many of its activities again, and the management of
the Ministry began to adapt the sector reforms which were planned in the context of this
first project to the new situation. This led to a reappraisal of the Second Health and
Population Project (Cr. 273 1-BU) which was approved in May 1995. This second project
builds on the achievements of the first one, and continues and expands activities included
in it. Because of the risks associated with the second project, due to the socio-econornic
crisis, the sustainability of the first Population and Health Project achievements can only
be assessed as "uncertain" (paragraph 1.17).
6.    The project took about two years longer to complete than expected at appraisal.
The reasons for these implementation delays include changes in project scope, uneven
quality of management and delays in selecting staff, procurement and disbursement delays,
and acute security problems (paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14). The actual project cost, not
including some training activities financed by UNICEF which could not be costed, was
$17.62 million, as compared with $18.8 million appraisal estimate. The IDA credit was
almost fully disbursed (95% of SDR1 1 million)', and the contribution of the Government
of Burundi and UNICEF were US$2 (instead of 2.9) million and US$0.82 (instead of 1.8)
million respectively.
7.    A number of factors affected the achievement of project objectives. Among those
factors not generally subject to govermment control, the effect of the military coup attempt
of October 1993 and the crisis that followed was substantial. In particular, the crisis has
had an impact on the availability of personnel and of Govermment counterpart funds for
the health sector.  Among the factors generally subject to govermnent control,
macroeconomic and sector policies, were significant: the decentralization policy was never
implemented. A number of factors generally subject to implementing agency (MOPH)
control also affected the achievement of the project objectives (paragraphs 1.14 to 1.16).
On the positive side, the project benefited from its reliance on technical assistance which.
was successful. Negative factors that affected the project included the unequal quality of
project management over time and the high tum over of project coordinators, staffing
difficulties, and procurement and disbursement delays.
8.    IDA performance on this project was highly satisfactory at the identification stage,
and satisfactory in preparation assistance, appraisal, and supervision (paragraphs 1.18 to
1.21). The Borrower's performance can be rated as highly satisfactory for preparation,
satisfactory for implementation, and "partially" deficient for covenant compliance
(paragraphs 1.22 to 1.25).
9.    Mostly because of the crisis, the project's outcome deserves a rating in the quality
of health services of "unsatisfactory". Before the crisis, however, there had been a number
of improvements in the quality of health services and in coverage by the health care
system, one objective had been achieved, and most of the others partially achieved. Apart
For disbursement in US dollars, see Table 2.4.
2
This amount represents only the cost of technical assistance provided by UNICEF, and it does not
include project activities such as health personal training.



Evaluation Summary                                                         v
from contributing to the last census, the project was also successful in strengthening the
institutional capacity of MOPH (including IEC and planning and management capabilities),
and in developing a well integrated in-service training program complemented by a
systematic decentralized integrated supervision system. In the final analysis, the Project
had an impact, albeit limited, on institutional development. Studies for the reform of
health financing had been done and changes in legislation were under preparation in
October 1993. However, efforts to strengthen family planning services and design health
financing strategies suffered from an insufficient Government commitment and weak
institutional capacity. IEC activities for the National AIDS Control Program financed by
the project contributed to increased knowledge and awareness about the means of
transmission of HIV and the problems created by AIDS, but the seroprevalence and the
number of AIDS cases has continued to increase, although less rapidly than in some
neighboring countries (paragraph 1.26).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Although the project did not reach its objectives, which were too ambitious on
balance, the project was implemented satisfactorily until the crisis; it brought about
improvements in the quality of health services and in their coverage which were
unfortunately reduced, and even nullified in some cases, by the disastrous consequences of
the crisis. However, the Project has had a lasting impact in terms of capacity building at
the central, intermediate and peripheral levels (particularly for planning and management
and in IEC) in MOPH, increased sector knowledge, and reinforced peripheral health
infrastructures. In 1995, IDA approved a new credit for a Second Health and Population
Project. The objectives of that second project are to improve the health status of
Burundi's population and contribute to sustainable per capita growth by slowing
population growth, thus reducing pressure on resources. The project aims to do this by
increasing the availability, quality and efficiency of health services and making them more
responsive to the public's expectations. The design of the new project has incorporated
the lessons learned from the experience of this Population and Health Project (see
paragraph 11 below) and builds on its achievements (for example, infrastructures and
systems put into place, and the development of technical and administrative skills). Given
the country's current political situation, the new project has been designed in a flexible
manner to permit the implementation of certain activities even in a context of political
crisis and insecurity in certain parts of the country.  In case of a continuous crisis,
however, the new project would have to be restructured substantially (paragraphs 1.27
and 1.28).
11.   The following lessons (paragraph 1.29), which are relevant for future project
design both in health/population and in Burundi, can be learned from the experience of this
Population and Health Project:
* No matter how well prepared and implemented a project is, its development
impact may be jeopardized in a situation of continuous political instability and civil
disturbances: however, investments in human resources are more likely than other



vi                                    ICR - Burundi: Population and Health Project
investments to have a lasting impact and contribute to the sustainability of the
project.
* A project is implemented better when the Government is committed, when key
staff of the implementing agency are involved in project design and preparation,
and when beneficiary opinions are taken into account during project preparation.
*  Managerial and institutional capacities to develop project activities and key
functions (such as project coordination, procurement and accounting) need to be
carefully assessed during project preparation, and adequate strengthening must be
provided throughout project implementation.
*  Strengthening health centers is not enough to ensure an improvement in overall
health service delivery; reference health facilities must also be upgraded.
*  Rehabilitation activities should emphasize equally physical and qualitative inputs
and outputs (increased service capacity and quality).
*  Long term technical assistance can contribute to capacity building and to project
implementation if the adviser has a counterpart who participates in all project
activities and who is given increasing responsibilities.
-  A lack of continuity in project management (due for instance to key personnel
turnover) is likely to cause delays in project implementation. Mechanisms should
be put in place which would help prevent too high a turnover of key staff.
-  Performance indicators should be designed and used to monitor the progress of the
project on an annual basis in order to facilitate the assessment of the achievements
of the project.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT 1862-BU
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.1   According to the development credit agreement, the objectives of the project were:
(i) to contribute to the reduction of maternal and child morbidity and mortality; (ii) to
promote birth spacing and strengthen the National Maternal and Child Health and Family
Planning Program; (iii) to assist in controlling the AIDS epidemic; (iv) to improve the
overall effectiveness and efficiency of the health system; and (v) to improve the
demographic data base needed for socio-economic planning. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) included some quantitative objectives for reducing maternal and infant mortality
and for reducing fertility (Table 2.5 of this report). The objectives were to be achieved
through the implementation of five components: (i) the strengthening of MCH/FP
services; (ii) the development of an EEC program; (iii) support to the National AIDS
Control Program; (iv) the institutional strengthening of MOPH; and (v) population data
development.   Although  the  objectives were never formally  changed  during
implementation, the component of support to the National AIDS Control Program was for
all practical purposes dropped from the project following the decision of other donors,
particularly WHO, to finance it. The project provided the National AIDS Control
Program with equipment and furniture and some AIDS IEC activities were carried out in
the context of the EEC component.
1.2   The objectives were clear and made very explicit by the inclusion in the SAR of
not only process indicators for the major components (Table 2.5), but also of outcome and
impact indicators related to services provided by the health system and to basic health data
(Table 2.5). The objectives were fully consistent with the government's social objectives
("to improve living standards of the most vulnerable groups of the population") and
economic adjustment objectives ("to improve the financial performance of technical
ministries"). The objectives were very important for Burundi and its health sector, in view
of the country's high maternal and child mortality. The MOPH strategy to develop a
strong family planning (FP) component in the MCH program was a sound one considering
the very high fertility rate in Burundi and population density close to 200 per sq.km., the
second highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Since the Government had decided to give priority
to the development of a comprehensive population program designed to reduce fertility
and population growth, the project was responsive to changes in Burundi's circumstances
and priorities. The objectives were also in agreement with IDA's country assistance
strategy. Following the Health and Population Sector Report of July 1983 and the



2
subsequent dialogue on health and population issues, IDA's strategy was to fill two major
gaps in the overall provision of extemal assistance to the Population, Health and Nutrition
(PHN) sectors: the first gap was the limited support to a large scale FP program, including
IEC activities, and the second the lack of institution building for the health system. In
addition, the National AIDS Control Program required a major foreign support. It was
felt that, by participating in this program, which had implications for health expenditure
and the overall health system performance, IDA would be able to influence its design and
execution.
1.3   It was appropriate for Burundi to aim for a reduction in maternal and child
mortality and for the development of birth spacing and family planning among couples, as
well as for an improvement in the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the health system,
all of which would be achieved progressively. However, the quantitative targets for
reduction in mortality and fertility rates were too ambitious and difficult to achieve in the
time frame of a five-year project, even if the political situation had remained stable. This
difficulty was partly recognized in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), which stated that the
objectives "will require a strong commitment from the Government and major efforts from
the donor community".
1.4   The project was an integral part of Burundi's Fifth Development Plan (1988-92).
Because the project dealt with many aspects of the functioning of the health system both
at the central level and in the provinces, it was relatively complex. In addition, it was very
demanding, not so much for the Ministry of Interior (MOI), whose Population Department
senior staff had already carried out successfully the 1979 census, but mostly for the
Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) which had limited qualified personnel in the fields of
health policy and management.  In fact, the SAR identified the relative MOPH
inexperience in implementing a project of this size as the project's main risk. That is why
the project design included the strengthening of various MOPH units by additional staff
and a substantial input of extemal long- and short-term technical assistance.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.5   The assessment of the project's success in achieving its major objectives should
take into account the significant differences between the various components, in terms of
both content and relative importance. One has to distinguish between review of the
project as a whole (reflected in Table 2.1 of Part II), and more qualified comments that
can be made on individual components. An additional difficulty in assessing the project's
success is the disastrous consequences of the October 1993 military coup attempt and the
political crisis that followed. Starting in October 1993, Burundi's health sector was almost
paralyzed for nearly a year because of the insecurity and the political uncertainty prevailing
throughout the country. Large numbers of personnel fled to safer zones or were killed,
and many Rwandese health personnel who had been working for years in Burundi retumed
to Rwanda after fighting ended there, leaving health facilities inadequately staffed.
Equipment, supplies and vehicles were often vandalized or stolen and national distribution
channels deteriorated. Major health problems on a national scale were prevented only by



3
the substantial flow of humanitarian relief and intemational emergency aid. Mainly
because of this political crisis, the success of the project as a whole and of most of its
components in achieving their major objectives is either negligible (financial objective) or
partial at the time of the closing of the IDA credit (see Table 2.1). Only the objective to
improve the demographic data base needed for socio-economic planning was achieved,
and remained so, despite the crisis. The discussion below tries to present a more balanced
picture of the achievements of the project's components before the crisis and of what is
now left, on which the second project can build. The quantitative criteria for judging the
achievement of objectives were relatively few in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), but
were much more detailed in the working papers produced for each project component
(with the exception of the AIDS control program) during the preparation of the project.
1.6   The achievement of impact objectives is difficult to assess because of lack of
reliable data. Since the beginning of the crisis, health information has not been kept
consistently. The most recent report by the Health Statistics Division (EPISTAT) was
issued in 1993 and presents the data for 1992. There is no information on the recent trend
in the maternal mortality rate, but it seems that there has been some improvement in the
infant mortality rate (from 125 per 1,000 in 1987 to 110 per 1,000 in 1992). 1 Prenatal
coverage has improved: in 1986, 60% of women had at least one prenatal consultation, it
increased to 92% in 1992 (percentage higher than the targeted 85%), but declined to 68%
with the crisis. Percentage of deliveries medically assisted also improved (from 17% to
20%), although less than expected (27%). Child health monitoring (at least one visit a year
for children 0-23 months) reached the SAR estimate for 1992 (80%) but declined after the
crisis to less than it was in 1986 (46% versus 40% in 1995). The contraceptive prevalence
rate improved slightly from 1,6% in 1987 to about 3% for the whole country in 1992 (and
almost 10% in some provinces), but has since decreased and remains negligible. The
fertility rate has continued to increase (to 6.8), instead of decreasing, and very little
progress has been made in controlling the AIDS epidemic. Finally, the population data
development has been successful with the development of a demographic data base. In
conclusion, many objectives had been reached, at least partially, before the crisis, but most
of the gains either were reduced or annihilated.
1.7   The project's physical objectives have been reached or even exceeded in some
cases (for instance 41 health centers have been built or rehabilitated instead of 30). The
project supplied to the various components all the tools (vehicles, computers, audiovisual
equipment) that were envisaged in the SAR. Training was also carried out successfully:
2036 health staff were retrained instead of the 1000, and 24 central staff (instead of 20)
and 50 provincial staff (instead of 80) were trained in management. All fellowships were
awarded as planned in the SAR and all except two of the grantees, are now working for
the MOPH, (one is still studying and the other works for the private sector).
The 1987 estimate was based on data that were available when the SAR was prepared and that of
1992, on EPISTAT report for that year.



4
1.8   Regarding sector policies and institutional development, the achievement of
objectives has been only partial. The institutional strengthening has had some very
positive effects during the project period in terms of the management and planning
capabilities of MOPH, the strengthening of MCH/FP services, and development of the
integrated supervision system and of an IEC program. The EEC activities carried out have
exceeded the SAR estimations: 60 programs were produced (instead of 30) and one of
these received an award in a German film festival, 24 health promotion campaigns were
carried out (instead of 18) and 18 training seminars held (instead of 16). The Health
Information System was established. Although it was not computerized at the provincial
level, for a lack of fUnding2, the system collected and published health data until 1993.
Since the crisis, data collection has been incomplete and EPISTAT has not published any
report. Although some of those achievements have been partly offset by the consequences
of the political crisis, it is worth noting that MOPH has retained most of its improved
management and planning capabilities and its EEC capacity: it is one of the very few
ministries which still functions satisfactorily and which has managed to cooperate and
work well with donors to coordinate emergency aid. The project also contributed to
developing a health map (carte sanitaire) which is used by all the health sector partners and
to establishing norms for the health centers (two standard plans).
1.9   Even before the political crisis, the achievement of financial objectives was
negligible, and it remains so after the crisis. Several studies were carried out, albeit
somewhat belatedly, which laid the basis for looking at financing schemes. Before the
crisis, a few hospitals had been made autonomous, a timetable had been set for
implementing the reform of sector financing, and discussions had started with the Ministry
of the Interior to change the municipal law so that health centers could keep and manage
the income generated by cost recovery. However, no new financing mechanisms had been
introduced before the crisis and little progress had been made regarding the feasibility of
the financial and management autonomy of the health centers. In its last year, the project
supported the preparation of the sector reforms which will be implemented under the
Second Health and Population Project. In addition, there is some evidence of improvement
in resource allocation in the health sector in terms of cost-effectiveness and efficiency.
Salaries represented in 1995 less than 50% of MOPH's recurrent budget (versus 56% in
1986) and the hospital sector absorbs a smaller proportion of recurrent expenditures than
in 1986. The execution of MOPH's budget improved significantly, thanks to the support of
the PEP/PIP unit, with expenditures basically equal to the budgeted amounts until the
crisis, and in 1994 and 1995, non-salary expenditures equal to 70% of budgeted amounts
(whereas previously non-salary recurrent expenditures represented only about one-third of
the budgeted amounts).
1.10  The design of the project was generally appropriate for achieving the objectives
with respect to MCH services and institutional strengthening, but much less so for AIDS
control. Actually, the AIDS control component was not prepared in detail like the other
2 This computerization was to be financed by a USAID project that was postponed indefinetely
because of the crisis.



5
project components, because the AIDS program was in its infancy and was supposed to be
developed during the lifetime of the project; moreover, this component was added to the
project after appraisal.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
1.11  The mission's aide memoire in Appendix A and the borrower's report in Appendix
B discuss the implementation record for the project and the problems encountered. They
provide a good account of what happened during the project implementation period. In
spite of some problems, the implementation record is generally satisfactory.
1.12  The project faced some problems right from the beginning. Mostly because of the
departure of the Inspector General of the MOPH (who had been on the job for about ten
years and acted as Project Coordinator during project preparation) immediately after
negotiations, the government wanted to renegotiate three aspects of the project: the
technical assistance to be financed by the IDA credit, the proposed restructuring of the
MOPH, and the financing with an IDA credit (rather than with a grant) of the National
AIDS Control Program. IDA had to impress upon the government that a renegotiation of
the IDA credit would not be opportune, but it seems that all government officials were not
convinced and the same questions lingered on frequently during the first years of the
project. The effectiveness of the IDA credit was delayed by a few months because of
delays in the signing of the technical assistance contracts. As mentioned earlier, the
National AIDS Control Program, although never formally canceled, was finally financed
by WHO until 1992 and by others donors afterwards. During implementation, there were
no major procurement problems, but there were procurement delays (because of the
number of reviews and the lack of coordination) and, particularly at the beginning, delays
with the replenishment of the special account, with a need for frequent reminders that
proper procedures had to be followed. The project took two years longer to complete
than expected at appraisal, with two postponements of the closing date of the IDA credit
(one year at a time), from June 30, 1993 to June 30, 1995. In addition, the closing date
was further postponed to September 30, 1995 for one contract of US$148,000 for the
purchase of equipment for the maintenance workshops.  The reasons for these
implementation delays include changes in project scope, delays in implementing the
sectorial reforms, uneven quality of management and delays in selecting staff, procurement
and disbursement delays, and, above all, acute security problems. The actual project cost,
excluding some training activities financed by UNICEF (which could not be costed) was
$17.62 million, compared to the $18.8 million appraisal estimate. This amount covered
activities of all project components with the exception of the support to the National
AIDS Control Program that was financed by other donors3. The project contributed only
$715,000 to the program for equipment and furniture and financed AIDS IEC activities.
The cost of these activities and goods was included in the IEC component. IDA funds
budgeted for the AIDS component were reallocated to finance additional health centers
3  WHO contributed $4.76 million to this program for the period 1988-1992.



6
and a building for the Project Unit's office, the Health Education Unit's office and the
audio-visual production studio.
1.13   A number of factors affected the achievement of project objectives. Among those
factors not generally subject to government control, the effect of the military coup attempt
of October 1993 and the crisis that followed was substantial.  To a lesser degree,
cofinanciers were also a factor. UNICEF's collaboration with the project was very good
at the beginning but did not last throughout the project period, and UNICEF ended up
financing only two instead of three technical assistants (one for MCH/FP and one instead
of two for IEC). WHO's decision to finance AIDS control activities affected both the
project scope and its implementation (par. 1.12).
1.14  Among the factors generally subject to government control, macroeconomics and
sector policies were significant in slowing down project implementation in general and in
delaying financial reforms in particular.  The decentralization policy has never been
implemented. No procedures were put into place so that the provinces could manage their
own budgets. On the financial side, revenues collected by health center personnel (for
payment by patients of the health insurance card and other services) are still channeled to
the communal authorities, as required by the existing communal law, and only about 10
percent of the income is redistributed in kind to the health centers; such an arrangement
tends to demotivate health center personnel since the bulk of the revenues generated
cannot be used for buying drugs or financing other operational requirements. The project
also suffered from a lack of counterpart funds from the beginning of the crisis until the end
of 1994 when IDA agreed to increase its disbursement percentage to 100 percent
(excluding taxes) for all disbursement categories.
1.15  A number of factors generally subject to implementing agency (MOPH) control
affected the achievement of the project objectives. On the positive side, the project
benefited from its reliance on technical assistance which was important during the
preparation phase and early project implementation. There are many reasons why this
technical assistance was successful. Despite earlier misgivings on the part of some
government officials, MOPH commitment to use technical assistance efficiently was high.
The assistance was specific, i.e. concentrated on specific topics such as management
information systems, IEC, health organization, and maternal and child health. National
professionals were involved from the very beginning and were organized in working
groups focusing on specific topics; their work contributed to the efficiency of the technical
assistance team. The leader of the technical assistance team worked in close collaboration
with his counterparts, the Director and the Assistant director of the project, and assisted
MOPH during the first 18 months of project implementation. The external technical
assistance was phased out in parallel with: (i) long term training (fellowships) for senior
MOPH officials; (ii) involvement of nationals in operations research; (iii) the organization
of seminars/workshops; and (iv) the training of local staff in managerial skills (accounting,
computer skills). Negative factors that affected the project included the lack of continuity
in project management (the project had six project coordinators during the project



7
period)4and its unequal quality over time, staffing difficulties (particularly the absence of a
qualified accountant for a whole year), and the procurement and disbursement delays
mentioned in paragraph 1.12.
1.16   In summary, in spite of some problems, implementation was generally satisfactory.
Respect of Bank procedures increased with time to become very satisfactory during the
period preceding the crisis. Most activities planned (with the exception of the
establishment of a health financing system) were carried out and, in some instance, targets
were exceeded (rehabilitation, retraining, IEC activities).
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.17   As noted earlier, because of the disastrous effects of the crisis, the achievement of
project objectives has been either negligible (financial objective) or partial. However,
important gains have been made as a result of the project. The MOPH is still operating
satisfactorily in spite of the difficult country situation, Ministry personnel at all levels have
been trained, systems for integrated supervision and health statistics were put in place, 41
health centers have been either rehabilitated (39) or built (2) and the health map still
provides a framework to plan health activities. As shown by the beneficiary assessment,
these project health centers offer a work environment more functional for health personnel
and more hospitable for the population itself than before the rehabilitation.  These
infrastructures have not been damaged by the crisis (except for two of them which are
being repaired) and remain an important contribution to the Burundi health system. All of
those aspects of capacity building which are key in a first operation constitute elements of
institutional sustainability. The Government remains committed to improving the health
status of the population and the policy environment is not adverse to reforms, including a
greater participation of communities. The Second Health and Population Project (Cr.
2731 -BU) continues and expands activities included in the first project, as discussed in the
section below on "Future Operation". However, despite the gains which have been made
under the first Population and Health Project, because of the risks, associated with the
second project, due to the socio-political crisis, its sustainability can only be assessed as
"uncertain".
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
1.18   IDA performance on this project was highly satisfactory at the identification stage,
and satisfactory in preparation assistance, appraisal, and supervision.  As mentioned
earlier, the project was very important for Burundi and for IDA's country assistance
strategy, and project identification was on target. IDA involvement also encouraged other
4   Three of them left because they were awarded IDA-financed long-term fellowships. As they were
civil servants (with no other compensation that their civil servant salary), it was difficult to keep
them from competing for the fellowships which were awarded on a competitive basis. Among the
others, one was replaced at IDA's request for his non-performance, one was dismissed for political
reasons and the last one was the project coordinator at the end of the project.



8
donors to take into consideration certain aspects of the sector which had been generally
neglected up to that time, such as institutional development and IEC activities. Thanks to
IDA, MOPH has a strategy for the sector as a whole, rather than a project approach.
1.19  Regarding project preparation, IDA provided useful assistance to MOPH efforts to
develop an overall plan and specific approaches.  The design of the project was
satisfactory, with the exception of the support to the National AIDS Control Program,
which was included in the project after appraisal and which was basically a program in its
infancy. These two reasons explain why this component had not been prepared and was
limited to a few project ideas that remained to be defined more precisely and to a few lines
in the Staff Appraisal Report. The satisfactory performance of IDA in assisting MOPH in
project preparation was due to its substantial involvement (about 100 staff-weeks for the
identification and preparation of the project), the right quality and quantity of staff and
consultants (including skill mix and continuity), and prior IDA sector work.
1.20  Also because of the staff and consultants involved (about 60 staff-weeks), the
performance of IDA in project appraisal was satisfactory. The commitment and capacity
of the Government and MOPH were properly assessed, with the judgment that since
capacity was limited there was a need for a significant amount of technical assistance.
However, not all the problems that materialized, such as the lack of effective
decentralization and the crisis, were anticipated or recognized as risks at the time of
appraisal. Also, experience showed that for some components the implementation plans
were not quite adequate, and process and performance indicators were not designed and
therefore not used to permit the monitoring of the project on an annual basis. Finally, at
the time of project preparation not much attention was paid to community participation
and the availability of incentives for participants to sustain the project. Actually, as
explained in paragraph 1.15, the financing system used to allocate the financial resources
obtained from the sale of the health insurance card and other cost recovery mechanisms
contributes to demotivating health personnel. Admittedly, at the time of project
preparation, participation was not stressed as much as it is now.
1.21  IDA performance in supervising the project can also be rated as satisfactory.
Sufficient attention was paid to the likely development impact, and by and large
implementation problems (such as the demotivation of health personnel) were identified
and assessed. Studies had been carried out a few months before the crisis, including a
beneficiary assessment, in order to design new mechanisms for the financing of the health
sector. However, the reporting of project implementation progress was not always as
comprehensive as would have been desirable, particularly regarding compliance with
covenants and the implementation of some sub-components, such as the health financing
policy development (which became part of the public expenditures review exercise). As a
result, some of the ratings on implementation status and development objectives given in
Supervision Form 590 may have been too generous. Because most planned activities were
taking place, enough attention may not have been paid to some of the existing problems.
For instance, IDA should probably have insisted more on finding mechanisms to ensure
more stability in the management of the project. Through regular contacts, IDA staff
provided useful advice to MOPH.  IDA  showed flexibility in approving needed



9
modifications, especially in reallocating funds from the National AIDS Control Program to
additional health centers and office buildings. Also, in view of the Government inability to
provide counterpart funds after the crisis, IDA agreed in November 1994 to an increase of
its disbursement percentages to 100 percent (excluding taxes) for all disbursement
categories. Generally, IDA, the Borrower, MOPH, MOI and cofinanciers worked
together successfully for most of the project period. With the obvious exception of the
period of civil disturbances, the timing and length of time of supervision missions was
adequate; on average 11 staff-weeks per year were spent on supervision, which is about
normal for most of the region. There was no requirement for a mid-term review, and
country implementation reviews did not have much impact; on the other hand, the
Resident Mission in Bujumbura made a contribution since for the last year one of its staff
was task manager for the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.22  The Borrower's performance can be rated as highly satisfactory for preparation,
satisfactory for implementation, and "partially" deficient for covenant compliance.
1.23  With financing provided by a first Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance, the
MOPH set up a multi-disciplinary preparation team headed by the Inspector General of
Health (the Head of the Bureau of Inspection and Planning - BIP), who played the role of
project coordinator. This team began to prepare the project on the basis of terms of
reference jointly prepared by MOPH and IDA, and was later reinforced by the recruitment
of a foreign technical assistant to assist in project preparation coordination.  Several
working groups (involving about 60 local staff and students for research work) were
established to prepare specific components. Other donors (UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID,
AfDB, and WHO) were involved at an early stage of preparation and some of their
technical advisers became part of the MCH/FP Committee in charge of developing the
national program. In addition, six short-term international experts (health financing,
MCH/FP, IEC, health planning, health statistics, and architecture) were able to build upon
the preliminary work completed by local consultants and health staff. After appraisal, a
second Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance financed inter alia the preparation of
final working drawings and final lists of equipment, and furniture and vehicles. This
thorough and comprehensive preparatory work (except for the support to the National
AIDS Control Program, which was added to the project after appraisal) was reflected in
the good quality of the Government's project documents which included indicators, and
was designed to ensure an effective start of the project in early 1988. It also resulted in a
high stakeholder commitment.
1.24  The borrower's performance has varied during the project implementation period.
It was highly satisfactory from the beginning of the project until the departure of the
technical assistance in August 1990, and was satisfactory until the beginning of the civil
disturbances in October 1993; from that time till the closing date of the IDA credit, it has
been rather deficient. With an adequate and effective technical assistance, a generally
good performance of consultants and contractors, the availability of counterpart funding,



10
and no government interference in operational decisions, MOPH was able to make a good
start in project implementation despite the initial problems mentioned in paragraph 1.13.
After the departure of the technical assistance, the management of the project became less
efficient, and the situation deteriorated further with the crisis when the project coordinator
could not fulfill his duties on a full time basis because he was most of the time in hiding.
It should be noted that, throughout the project period, project management and
implementation suffered from a high turnover of staff, particularly at the top (there were
six coordinators during the project period (see footnote No. 4), who had not always the
right qualifications. Since the beginning of the crisis, the project was affected by an
insufficiency of counterpart funds and very high absenteeism at all levels.
1.25  The extent to which the Government and MOPH have complied with major credit
covenants/commitments has also varied over time for much of the same reasons.
However, even before the crisis, some of the covenants were complied with partially or
with delays. The failure of Government/MOPH to employ sufficient additional health
personnel and staff health centers as planned and agreed upon, and to recruit all the
needed advisers in order to ensure the most productive use of the new investments and
systems, was particularly serious. On balance, compliance with covenants was less than
satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
1.26  Mostly because of the crisis, the project failed to achieve most of its major
objectives.  Therefore, the project's outcome deserves a rating of "unsatisfactory".
However, it should be noted that the project had yielded before the crisis worthwhile
development results, some of which remained after the crisis. There had been a number of
improvements in the quality of health services and in coverage by the health care system,
and most of the objectives had been partially achieved. The number of health centers built
or rehabilitated exceeded the appraisal estimate (41 instead of 30), and service indicators
(such as the number of patients in health centers) improved in those health centers. As
shown by the beneficiary assessment, 82% of beneficiaries who participated to the study,
felt that health services had improved in the rehabilitated centers and, 77% and 62%
indicated respectively that health personnel capacities and attitudes had improved.
However the beneficiaries stressed the need for drugs and personnel in addition to
infrastructures to improve services. Apart from contributing to the last census, the project
was also successful in strengthening IEC (and to a lesser extent HIS) capabilities within
MOPH, and in developing a well integrated in-service training program (based on high
quality manuals developed in the context of the project and which is still in use)
complemented by a systematic decentralized integrated supervision system. Generally, the
quality of health services improved during the project period, implying that the project
contributed to this improvement. Some dramatic improvements in certain areas were
observed; for example, vaccination coverage had increased to 85%, and 80% of pregnant
women had at least one prenatal consultation. However, efforts to strengthen family
planning services and design health financing strategies suffered from an insufficient
Government commitment and weak institutional capacity. The contraceptive prevalence



11
rate increased only slightly to about 3% (but up to 10% in certain provinces such as
Ngozi) before falling back to an extremely low level of about one percent. The AIDS
program has contributed to increasing knowledge and awareness about AIDS and the
means of transmission of HIV and to promote a better acceptance of persons living with
HIV, but the seroprevalence and the number of AIDS cases have continued to increase
(although not as dramatically as in most neighboring countries).  Finally, the most
important impact of the project is in terms of capacity building and institutional
strengthening, in particular increased sector knowledge on the part of MOPH,
establishment of a sector strategy, and reinforced peripheral health infrastructures; those
gains proved invaluable for the Second Health and Population Project which continues and
expands activities initiated under the first project.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
1.27 In 1995, IDA approved a new credit for a Second Health and Population Project.
The objectives of that second project are to improve the health status of Burundi's
population and contribute to sustainable per capita growth by slowing population growth,
thus reducing pressure on resources. The project aims to do this by increasing the
availability, quality and efficiency of health services and making them more responsive to
the public's expectations. These objectives are in fact the continuation of the development
objectives of the first project. In particular, the project plans to increase health personnel
and make drugs available. In addition, the second project will implement the sector
reforms (decentralization and financing) which were under preparation before the crisis in
the context of the first project, after adapting them to the current situation. Specific
objectives of the second project are to: (i) strengthen MOPH's capacity to design and
implement key sector reforms; (ii) improve the availability and quality of health care
delivery in rural areas; (iii) contribute to reducing population growth and maternal and
child mortality rates; and (iv) promote beneficial health and family planning behaviors.
Project components corresponding to these objectives consist of: (i) strengthening
MOPH's capacity to effect key sector reforms in human resource management, hospital
management autonomy, health financing, quality of health services, and maintenance; (ii)
strengthening service delivery in five out of 15 provinces, by supporting basic health
services and rehabilitating nine hospitals; (iii) implementing the maternal and child and
family planning (MCH/FP) policy; and (iv) improving IEC activities.  To monitor
implementation and progress towards project development objectives, the new project
includes key project performance indicators, which would be monitored, in some cases
annually, by MOPH in close collaboration with IDA.
1.28  The new project not only continues the activities of the Population and Health
Project (see next section), but its design has incorporated the lessons learned from this
first experience. Given the country's current political situation, the new project has been
designed in a flexible manner to permit the implementation of certain activities even in a
context of a renewed political crisis and insecurity in certain parts of the country.
Rehabilitation of project hospitals would be done in three phases that would be modified
according to the prevailing state of security, starting with hospitals located in the safest



12
provinces. Likewise, management autonomy and health service quality would first be
strengthened in these hospitals. Implementation of the MCH/FP policy and IEC activities
at the provincial and community levels also would first be carried out in the safest areas of
the country. However, activities to support design and implementation of sector reforms
would be the most affected by a long lasting crisis. In case of a continuous crisis, the
project would have to be restructured substantially.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
1.29  The following  lessons, which  are relevant for future projects both  in
health/population and in Burundi, can be learned from the Population and Health Project:
*  No matter how well prepared and implemented a project is, its development impact
may be jeopardized in a situation of continuous political instability and civil
disturbances: however, investments in human resources are more likely than other
investments to have a lasting impact and contribute to the sustainability of the project.
D A project is implemented better when the Government is committed, when key staff of
the implementing agency are involved in project design and preparation, and when
beneficiary opinions are taken into account during project preparation.
*  Managerial and institutional capacities to develop project activities and key functions
(such as project coordination, procurement and accounting) need to be carefully
assessed during project preparation, and adequate strengthening must be provided
throughout project implementation (in spite of political crisis).
*  Strengthening health centers is not enough to ensure an improvement in overall health
service delivery; reference health facilities must also be upgraded.
*  Rehabilitation activities should emphasize equally physical and qualitative inputs and
outputs (increased service capacity and quality).
*  Long term technical assistance can contribute to capacity building and to project
implementation if the adviser has a counterpart who participates in all project activities
and who is given increasing responsibilities.
*  A lack of continuity in project management (due for instance to key personnel
turnover) is likely to cause delays in project implementation. Mechanisms should be
put in place which would help prevent too high a turnover of key staff
*  Performance indicators should be designed and used to monitor the progress of the
project on an annual basis in order to facilitate the assessment of the achievements of
the project.



13
2. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 2-1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of Obiectives
Obiectives                       Substantial       Partial          Neglipible       Not Applicable
Macro policies                     O                 O                O                 0
Sector policies                    0                 0                0                 O
Financial objectives               O                 0                0                 0
Institutional development          a                 0                0                 0
Physical objectives                E                 0                0                 0
Poverty reduction                  O                 0                0                 0
Gender issues                      0                 O                0                 0
Other social objectives            a                 O                O                 0
Environmental objectives           a                 O                O                 0
Public sector management           0                 0                0                 0
Private sector development         0                 0                0                 0
Other (specify)                    0                 0                0                 0
B. Project sustainability                   Likely                    Unlikely          Uncertain
a                         a                 0
C. Bank performance                         Highly
satisfactor               Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                              0a0                                         a
Preparation Assistance                     0O                                           0
Appraisal                                   0                         0                 0
Supervision                                 0                         0                 0
D. Borrower Derformance                     Highly
satisfactory              Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                 0l                                          0
Implementation                              0                         0                 0
Covenant Compliance                         0                         0                 0
Operation (not applicable in 1986)          0                         0                 0
E. Assessment of outcome           Highlv iighiy
satisfactory     Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactor
0                0                 0                0



14
Table 2-2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                Purpose                Year of       Status
Approval 
Preceding Operations
No preceding
Operation
Following Operations
Second Health and    To improve the health status of    1995    The credit has
Population Project   Burundi's population and contribute         been made
(Cr. 2731 -BU)       to sustainable per capita income            effective, and the
growth  by  slowing  population             project is being
growth, thus reducing population            implemented
pressures on resources.                     satisfactorily.
Effective
02/09/96.



15
Table 2-3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned          Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        N.A.             Feb/Mar 1985
Preparation                                       N.A.            Oct 1985 to Nov
1986
Appraisal                                         N.A.               Apr 1987
Negotiations                                      N.A.               Oct 1987
Board Presentation                                N.A.             Dec 15, 1987
Signing                                           N.A.             Feb 09, 1988
Effectiveness                                  Jun 09,1988          Jul 28, 1988
Midterm Review                                    N/A.                 N/A.
Project Completion                             Dec 31, 1992         Jun 30, 1995
Loan/Credit Closing                            Jun 30, 1993         Sep 30, 1995
Table 2-4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
| FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94  FY95   FY96
Appraisal
Estimate     0.71    3.23    6.30    9.50    12.25   14.00   14.00  14.00   14.uu
Actual       -       1.85    4.08    9.07    9.82    10.99   13.12  13.92   14.16
Actual as %
ofEstimate    -      57.3    64.8    95.5    80.2   78.5    93.7   99.4    101.1 l
Date of final disbursement: November 21, 1995



16
Table 2-5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Process Indicators             SAR         Actual      Actual
Estimate    by end of    by end of
for end of     1992        1995
1992
MCH/FP Component
Number of HCs rehabilitated               30          30           41
Staffing of HCs (additional)             120          123          82
Health staff retrained                   1,000         -          2036
% of health facilities delivering FP services  100    75           75
IEC Component
Programs produced                         30                       60
Campaigns completed                       18                       24
Seminars completed                        16                       18
Institutional strengthening
Staff trained in management
- Central                                 20                       24
- Provincial                              80                       50
Development of HIS                    Completed   Completed   Completed
Development of Health Financing Policy    Completed    Ongoing   Ongoing
Outcome Indicators
Contraceptive prevalence (%)             14.0          3            1
Prenatal coverage (I Consultation) (%)    85           92          68
Deliveries attended medically (%)         27           20          20
Child health monitoring (0-23 months, %)  80           80          40
Impact Indicators
Maternal mortality rate                  -20%        -40%*        N.A.
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000)        100          110         N.A.
Total fertility rate                      5.4         6.8          6.8
*Estimations based on EPISTAT report for 1992: 1,000 per 100,000 live births in 1986,
and 600 per 100,000 by end of 1992.



17
Table 2-6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Process Indicators             Actual       Actual
by end of    by end of
1995        2000
Outcomes Indicators
Revenue from sale of Health (%)            10           30
insurance card (% MOPH recurrent
budget)                                    75          100
Health facilities delivering FP services
Hospital bed occupancy (%)                 40           70
Availability of contraceptives (% of time)  30         100
Population aware of population problem   to be          80
(%)                                    determined
in 1996
Couverture vaccinale (%)                   32           90
Women of reproducible age to name one      58           90
modern method contraceptive (%)
Contraceptive prevalence (%)               1            10
Ante-natal coverage (1 consultation) %     68           90
Delivery attended medically (%)            20           35
Child Health Monitoring (0-23 months)      40          90
Referral of high risk pregnancies          24           80
Impact Indicators
Infant Mortality rate                     110*          95
Total Fertility rate                      6.8          5.4
Maternal Mortality rate (Per 100,000)     600          300
*Estimations based on EPISTAT report for 1992: 1,000 per 100,000 live
births in 1986, and 600 per 100,000 by end of 1992.



18
Table 2-7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as defined at appraisal    Status        Impact of Study
Financing of health  Improvement of health sector financing  done   Method improved
sector 1987
-   .j 19'Y        Definr IEC services                   done   Services greatly improved
Institution building  Define institution building        done   Better approach to institution
in 1987                                                          buildin
Health information  Improvement of the health information  done   Better data collection
system            system
Study on launch of  Clarifying financing and management of    done   Launch was effective.
management of     hospitals
autonomous
hospitals, 1993
Strategy of human  Improve development of human resources   done   Human resources management
resources,        management                                     greatly improved
-August 1993
Study on IEC      Improvement of IEC services            done   Services improved
component,        management
February 1993
Project document:   Define components and objectives of  done   Project is effective
Health and        project
l opuiation II
Project, June 1993
Socio-economic    Identify the different income categories  done   Results could not be used
survey and        study, attitudes and behavior of               because of the crisis and now
beneficiary       population towards (i) payment for health      they are no longer valid.
assessment 1993    services ; and (ii) various financial
"insurance schemes" in order to improve
access to health care.
FlBeneficiarv       Evaluation of results of the project   done   Results were used for the final
assessment, 1995    components (SMI/lEC) on health centers'      evaluation.
services.



19
Table 2-8: Project Costs
(US $ million)
Project Components                    Appraisal          Actual/Latest
Estimate             Estimate
Strengthening MCH/FP Services                        11.14               10.20*
IEC Program Development                               1.40               2.47*
AIDS Control Program                                  2.15                 0
Institutional Strengthening                          2.17                 3.20
Population Data Development                           1.09                0.94
Project Preparation Facility                          0.80                0.81
Total Project Costs                                  18.75                17.62
* This amount corresponds only to the cost of technical assistance and exclude project activities
such as health personnel training which could not be costed.
** This amount includes $715.000 spent for equipment and furniture and IEC activities for the
National AIDS Control Program.
Table 2-9: Project Financing
(US $ million
Source                         Appraisal           Actual/Latest
Estimate             Estimate
IDA Credit                                          14.00                 14.2
Government of Burundi                                2.92                 2.00
UNICEF                                                1.83               0.80*
Unaccounted for                                                           0.62
Total                                               18.75                 17.62
* This amount corresponds only to the cost of technical assistance and exclude project activities such as
health personnel training which could not be costed.



20
Table 2-10: Economic Costs and Benefits
List of benefits identiried in the SAR               Actual
(a) Approximately one million people living  (a) About 820,000 persons benefited from
in underserved areas will have access to a    PHC services
full range of essential PHC services.
(b) Nearly one million women of        (b) Before the crisis, in October 1993, 90%
childbearing age will have access to effective  of pregnant women.
maternal care and family planning methods.   During crisis, 70%.
(c) About 800,000 under-five children will   (c) Information not available
benefit from effective nutrition services as
part of a comprehensive MCH package.
(d) The entire nation will benefit from the    (d) The contraceptive prevalence rate had
increasing contraceptive prevalence which   increased only slightly to about 3%, but after
will ease the demographic pressure.    the crisis it has fallen back to about 1%.
(e) The spread of AIDS would be reduced    (e) The AIDS control program has
through the support to the National AIDS    contributed to increased knowledge, but it is
Control Program.                       difficult to assess whether it has slowed the
spread of AIDS.
(f) MOPH will benefit from institutional  (f) MOPH now has a team of competent
strengthening.                         cadres, and has some capacities for having a
dialogue on policies and setting policies.
(g) New sources of health financing will be   (g) Although studies were done, no new
developed.                              sources of health financing were developed.
(h) The demographic data base would be  (h) Done. However, new surveys will need
improved and used for population policy  to be done because there have been some
development and socio-economic planning.   changes following the crisis.



21
Table 2-11: Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement
Section    Covenant    Present               Fulfillment date                       Description of Covenant
T_ype       Status
Original           Revised                                                                       Comments
2.02(b)     1, 3, 5       C           Continuous                         Borrower to open and maintain two Special  The two accounts have been opened  and
Accounts in dollars: Special Account A for the  maintained, but especially at the beginning of
Bureau de l'Inspection et de la Planification of  the project, there were problems with their
MOPH,  and  Special  Account B  for  the  replenishments (including delays in having the
Department of Population of MOI.               accounts credited), and Borrower had to be
reminded of the need to follow proper
procedures.
3.01(a)     3, 4, 5       CP          Continuous                         Borrowefs comnmitment to project objectives;  Components other than the reconstruction /
Borrower to carry out project with due diligence  rehabilitation of health centers have not always
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate  been implemented with due diligence and
practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the  efficiency, contributing  to  the  two  years
funds, facilities, services and other resources  postponement of the closing date. Starting from
required for project.                          the October 1993 crisis, Borrower had problems
providing the agreed upon counterpart fund
which were often insufficient.
3.01        5, 9         C        Before October 31                     Borrower to exchange views with Association on  Annual reviews held. The PIPIPDP unit is
(b)&(c)                               of each year                       progress achieved in carrying out the project, and  functioning  although  it still needs  some
to submit a project performance review, a project  assistance.
implementation plan and a revised three-year
rolling program of Investments and Public
Expenditures for the health sector.
3.01      1, 3, 4, 5     CP         Condition of                        Borrower to open and maintain a bank account in  Starting from the October 1993 crisis, account
(d)&(e)                             effectiveness, anid                  Fbu, deposit into it an initial amount equivalent to  has not been replenished.
thereafter                        $30,000, and thereafter deposit quarterly amounts
continuous                        required for project.
3.02         5           CP       Before 6/30/1988                      In order to carry out the component for the  All sites were acquired. Not all nurses were
for health center                    Development of MCHIFP Services, Borrower to  recruited: 2 additional nurses per health center
rehabilitation, and                   acquire by 6/30/88 all sites not already o\ned for  had been recruited by the end of 1992.
continuous for                      HC to be rehabilitated, and to recruit at least four
additional nurses.                   additional nurses for each of those centers.
3.03         5           CP       Before 8/31/1988                      In  order  to  carry  out the  EC  Program   Only one adviser was appointed.
Development component, Borrower to appoint by
8/31/88 a manager of the Health Education
________  ___________  __________  _________________    ________________  division  and  two  advisers, satisfactory  to  IDA. _DA_
Key to abbreviations is on page 23



22
Section    Co  tant    Present             Fu-Hllir. nt date                    Description of Covenant
3  e    Status
Original  _       Revised                                                                   Comments
3.04                   CP        Before 3/31/b8,                   In order to carry out the Support to the National  Borrower submitted a five-year AIDS control
and thereafter                   AIDS Control Program component, Borrower to  program, but there were no annual updates and
continuous                      submit to IDA by 3/31/88 a five-year National  exchanges of views as, for all practical
AIDS Control Program, and annual updates on the  purposes, this component was dropped from the
occasion of the annual exchanges of views.  project.
3.05        5           C        By 12/31/1988                     hi order to carry out the MOPH Institutional  24 supervisors nominated by December 31,
by 12/31/1989                     Strengthening component, Borrower to appoint  1988.
by 12/31/1990                     eleven multidisciplinary health supervisors for the  Supervisors became "chefs de secteur", en 1989.
provinces (in addition to the four already posted):
_____                                ________________  3 by 12/31/88, 3 by 12/31/89 and 5 by 12/31/90.
3.06        2          NC        By 12/31/1988                      Borrower to submit to IDA by 12/31/88 a policy  Studies have been carried out, but no policy and
paper on health financing policy development,  plan of action have been developed.
including recommendations and a plan of action.
3.07       5, 9         C       By 3/31/1988 and                    In order to carry out the Population Data  General census completed in 1990.
by 1/31/1990                     Development component, Borrower to submit to  Vital statistics greatly improved.
IDA by 3/31/88 a census master plan, to submit
progress reports on the 1989 census project, and to
submit by 1/31/90 a plan of action for the
improvement of national demographic and vital
statistics.
3.08        5          CD         By 3/31/1988                      Borrower to appoint by 3/31/88 a full time deputy  Project manager recruited in September 1988.
project coordinator to assist the Inspector General
of Health.
3.09        10          C          continuous                       Procedures for procurement of goods, works and    Project team followed procedures.
consultants' services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
4.01        1          CD          By June 30                       Borrower to maintain adequate project records and  In 1989, the audit report was submitted with
of each year, for                 accounts, to have the accounts audited by  delay. In one instance, auditors could not
the preceding year.                 independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and to  express an opinion because of the inadequacy of
furnish to IDA, not later than six months after the  the systems of accounts and of internal checks
end of each fiscal year, the report of such audit by  and controls; this was later corrected.
said auditors.
5.01(a)     1, 5         C         conditions of                     Borrower to employ (i) a technical assistant in
effectiveness                    health planning for at least the first two years and
a technical assistant in health architecture for at
least the first three years, to support BIP, and (ii)
a CPA to assist the budget division of MOPH.
Key to abbreviations is on page 23.



23
Covenant tYpes:
I = Accounts/audits.                     8 = Indigenous people.                    Present status:
2 = Financial performance/revenue         9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
generation from beneficiaries.            10 = Project implementation not covered by   C  = Covenant complied with.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.  categories 1-9.                        CD = Complied with after delay.
4 = Counterpart funding.                  II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or   CP = Complied with partially.
5 = Management aspects of the project or  other resource allocation..              NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.                         12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoml
6 = Environmental covenants.             policy/regulatory/ institutional action.
7 = Involuntary resettlement.             13 = Other.



24
Table 2-12: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All applicable Bank OMS were complied with.
Table 2-13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned                Revised                 Actual
Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$
Preparation to Appraisal    N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A        102.5       N/A
Appraisal                   N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A         57.9       N/A
Negotiations through        N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A          6.1       N/A
Board Approval                                                        I          I
Supervision                 N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A         77.0       N/A
Completion                  N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A          9.0       N/A
TOTAL                       N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A        252.5    757,600



25
Table 2-14: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of       Month/   Number   Days   Specialized staff         Perfonmance Rating       Types of Problenm
Project Cycle      Year         of      in  sldlls represented
Persons   Field
Implemen    Develop-
-tatlon      ment
Status    Objectives
Through apraisal
Identification     Feb-85          2        13   PH, LO
May-85          1       6   PH                               _
Preparation        Dec-85          4        15   PH,IEC,FP,EC
May-86          1       3   PH
Jul-86          4       14  PH,IEC,FP,MA
Preappraisal       Nov-86          5        19   PH,IEC,FP,RA,AR
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Appraisal          Mar/Apr-87      6        17   PH,ARIEC,FP,EC,         N.A.        N.A.
.___  _  RA
Pre-eflectiveness   Jun-88         2        7   PH,AR                    N.A.        N.A.
Supervsbon
Supervision I      Oct-88          2        10   PH,AR                    1            I
Supervision 2      Mar/Apr-89      1        7   PH
Supervision 3      Feb-90          3        7   PH,IEC,EC                 1
Supervision 4      Nov/Dec-90      4       14   PH,AR,ESS,EC              1            2      PMP,SP
Supervision 5      Feb-91          3        10   PH,IEC,AR                1            2      PMP,SP
Supervision 6      Sep-91          2        4   PH, SS                    2            2      PMP,SP
Supervision 7      Feb-92          4        16   PH,IEC,EC                2            2      PMP,TAP,SP
Supervision 8      Oct-92          I        7   AR                        2            2      PMP,TAP,SP
Supervision 9      Mar-93          2        6   AR,IEC                    2            2      PMP,TAP,SP
Supervision 10     Oct 93          1        12  IEC                       2            2      PMP, TAP, SP
Supervision 11     Mar-94       -  I       n.a.  AR                       2            2      PMP,TP,TAP,SP
Supervision 12     Sep-94          1        13  EC                       N.A T       N.A.
Supervision 13     Dec 94          2        6   IEC, SS                   2            2      PMP, TP, TAP, SP
Supervision 14     Apr-95          I       n.a.  SS                       S            S      PMP,PP,TP,TAP,SP
Completion         Sep-95          2        12  IEC,SS                    S            S      PMP
Key to specialized staff skills
AR = Architect/Inplementation Specialist  FP = Family Planning                       PH = Public Health
EC  = Economist                           IEC = Information, Education, Communication   RA = Research Assistant
ESS = EpidemiologistHealth Statistics     LA = Loan Officer                          SS = Social Sector
FH = Family Health                        MA = Management
Key to perfornance ratina
I = Problem Free            2 = Moderate Problems        3 = Major Problems           4 = Major Problems -
Conective action to be takenL
HS = Highly Satisfactory     S = Satisfactory            U.= Unsatisfactory            HU = Highly Unsatisfactory
Key to vroblems
AF  = Availability of Funds           PMP = Project Management Performance   SP = Studies Progress
CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants   PP  = Procurement Progress           TP = Training Progress
FP  = Financial Performance                                                  TAP= Technical Assistance Progress.



26
3. APPENDICES
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
Mission d'achevement du Projet Sante et Population I (PSP I)
(Cr. 1862-BU)
13-25 septembre 1995
1.    Mme Michele Lioy, Chargee de Projets au siege de la Banque Mondiale, a
effectue, en collaboration avec M. Pamphile Kantabaze, Charge des Operations a la
Mission residente du Burundi, une mission d'achevement du Projet Sante et Population I
(PSP I), (Cr. 1862-BR), au Burundi du 13 au 25 septembre 1995. Les objectifs de cette
mission etaient de: (i) evaluer a posteriori les realisations du projet; (ii) reevaluer
l'engagement de l'emprunteur envers les objectifs du projet; (iii) arriver a un accord avec
l'emprunteur en ce qui concerne ses futures activites dans le secteur sante; (iv) confirmer
les indicateurs de performance qui seront utilises pour le suivi des operations; et
1'evaluation de l'impact; (v) analyser les risques principaux au succes des operations et (vi)
collecter les donnees necessaires pour les annexes statistiques du rapport. Ces objectifs ont
.t atteints. La mission a travaille avec les membres de l'Unite de Gestion du Projet
(UGP) et les cadres du Ministere de la Sante publique et a consulte les bailleurs concernes
par le secteur sante. Elle a effectue une descente sur le terrain au cours de laquelle elle a
visite deux centres de sante (Bisoro et Mahwa) et l'h6pital de Bururi.
2.    La Mission residente a et tenue informee du deroulement de la mission
d'achevement. La mission remercie tous ses interlocuteurs, en particulier les membres de
l'UGP et les cadres superieurs du Ministere de la Sante publique, pour leur excellente
disponibilite. Cet Aide-Memoire a et discute avec son Excellence Monsieur le Ministre
de la Sante publique et ses collaborateurs le 25 septembre 1995.
3.    L'UGP a prepare un rapport d'evaluation interne qu'elle a presente a la
mission d'achevement. Elle preparera une synthese de ce rapport qui sera mise en annexe
du Rapport d'Achevement du Projet.  En outre, une etude d'evaluation aupres des
beneficiaires est en cours. L'objectif de cette etude est d'evaluer la disponibilite, la qualite
et l'accessibilite des services de sante dans les centres de sante rehabilites par le projet.
Les resultats de l'etude, qui seront disponibles a la mi-novembre 1995, seront utilises pour
completer le Rapport d'Achevement.
Realisations du projet
4.    Le PSP I 6tait constitue de cinq composantes: (i) Developpement des
services de sante maternelle et infantile; (ii) Elaboration d'un programme d'Information,
Education et Communication; (iii) Appui au Programme National de Lutte contre le
SIDA; (iv) Renforcement institutionnel du Ministere de la Sante publique (MSP); et (v)
Etablissement d'une base de donnees en matiere de population. Les paragraphes 5 a 12



27
ci-dessous decrivent brievement les realisations de chacune des composantes. II faut noter
que les &evnements qui ont eu lieu au Burundi ont, dans certains cas, ralenti les progres du
projet (rehabilitation des centres de sante), et dans d'autres cas, ont annule ou diminue
certains des acquis qui avaient ete observes dans le secteur sante (par exemple, la
couverture vaccinale ou  la prevalence contraceptive).   En  consequence, lors de
l'appreciation des realisations du projet, il est necessaire de considerer, non seulement les
realisations a la fin du projet, mais aussi les realisations, par rapport aux indicateurs definis
lors de la preparation du projet, avant la crise.
5.     Developpement des services de sante maternelle et infantile. Certains des
objectifs specifiques de cette composante avaient ete en partie realises avant la crise5. En
outre, certains indicateurs de performance avaient atteint (centres de sante rehabilites) ou
depasse les niveaux prevus (la couverture vaccinale). A la fin du projet, le nombre de
centre de sante rehabilites etait superieur au nombre prevu au moment de levaluation.
Des fonds ayant ete r&alloues, 41 centres de sante, au lieu des trente prevus, ont et
rehabilites/construits et la plupart de ces centres ont ete meubles et 6quipes6. La troisieme
phase ayant et perturbee par la crise, la rehabilitation de deux centres reste inachevee et
les trois unites de maintenance qui ont ete construites n'ont pas pu etre equipees avant la
fin du projet7. Les activites de planification familiale n'ont pas et, comme prevu,
financees par le projet parce que l'emprunteur a beneficie de dons de I1USAIS et du
FAUNE pour leur realisation. Cependant, la planification familiale a re,u un appui
indirect du projet: (i) dans les centres de sante renoves, la salle reservee a la MI/PAF oui
les femmes pouvaient 8tre conseillees en prive a permis d'ameliorer la qualite des services
de planification familiale; et (ii) la Sous-Direction d'Education pour la Sante (EPS) a
appuye la realisation d'activites d'IEC dans ce domaine. En ce qui conceme les services
de SMI, les outils de gestion et les fiches techniques et de supervision mis en place avec
l'appui du projet, les formations, le developpement d'un manuel SMI/PF, prepare avec le
concours de l'UNICEF, et la mise a disposition dans les centres r6noves d'une salle de
SMI/PF ou les femmes peuvent 8tre examinees et conseill6es en prive a contribue a
ameliorer la couverture vaccinale et le nombre des consultations prenatales (CPN). En ce
qui conceme la qualite des CPN, elle ne peut 8tre evalu6e car les donnees necessaires
n'etaient pas collectees.  En 1992, derniere annee pour laquelle des donnees sont
disponibles avant la crise, beaucoup des indicateurs de performance concemant la SMI
avaient et atteints ou presque atteints. Cependant, ce n'est plus le cas, car le systeme de
sante publique a ete tres touche par la crise. Beaucoup de centres de sante et d'h6pitaux
5   De 1986 a 1992, les progres suivants avaient ete accomplis: la couverture prenatale (au moins une
une visite prenatale) est passee de 60 % de la population cible a 92% en 1992; le taux
d'accouchements assistes par du personnel mddical est passe de 17 % a 20%; le percentage de
nourrissons de 0-1 Imois qui etaient suivis au moins cinq fois par an a augmanete de 46 a 80%. La
prdvalence contraceptive, cependant, n'avait augmente que de 1,6 a 2,6.
6   Certains des centres qui ont ete construits pendant la troisieme phase n'ont pas encore recu les
meubles etlou l'equipement qui leur est destine, mais qui sont stockes au MSP.
7   Une etude de faisabilite est prevue dans le cade du deuxieme projet qui permettra de determiner
comment seront gdr&es ces unites de maintenance.



28
n'ont plus le personnel necessaire pour fonctionner, I'approvisionnement en vaccins et en
medicaments est tres irregulier et, dans certains cas, 1'equipement a disparu.
6.    Elaboration   d'un   programme   dI'nformation,   Education    et
Communication. Le projet a contribue a etablir une Sous-Direction d'Education pour la
Sante (EPS) au Ministere de la Sante publique qui a pour mission de planifier, coordonner
et contr6ler la qualite de activites IEC du Ministere. En outre, I'EPS doit appuyer les
activites IEC des programmes du MSP. Le projet a finance: (i) des formations pour le
personnel de la Sous-Direction et les antennes IEC des programmes du MSP; (ii) de
l'equipement audiovisuel8 pour la production de materiel IEC; et (iii) de I'assistance
technique ponctuelle9. En outre, le projet a aide l'EPS a apporter un appui technique
(conception des campagnes et du materiel, formation, recherche) et financier aux
programmes de sante du MSP. Entre autres, les programmes suivants ont beneficie de
I'appui de I'EPS: le Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA (PNLS), le Programme
de Lutte contre les Maladies diarrheiques (LMD), le Programme de Lutte contre les
Maladies transmissibles et carentielles (LMTC), et le Programme national de planification
familiale (CPPF). Bien que des etudes sur la couverture vaccinale et l'etude CAP sur le
V'IHSIDA indiquent que les activites LEC ont eu un impact positif sur les populations, il
est difficile d'evaluer l'impact des activites EEC car I'EPS ne faisait pas d'evaluation
systematique de toutes les activites IEC. II a aussi ete note une faiblesse dans les capacites
de gestion et de coordination de I'EPS lorsque les demandes des differents programmes
sont devenues nombreuses.
7.     Une autre faiblesse etait le manque de capacites IEC aux niveaux provincial
et peripherique.  Pour remedier a cette carence, quelques mois avant la crise, des
animateurs d'IEC avaient ete nommes au niveau des provinces pour planifier et
coordonner les activites de communication et former les techniciens d'assainissement
comrnunaux. Cette decentralisation n'est jamais devenue operationnelle parce que la crise
a empeche la formation des agents IEC provinciaux. De plus, il est a noter que depuis la
crise, 1'efficacite de l'EPS a diminue car il est plus difficile pour ses agents de sortir sur le
terrain et beaucoup de son personnel est parti.
8.    Appui au Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA. Les fonds alloues
a la composante SIDA ont ete re-alloues a la construction de: i) du batiment ou sont loges
le siege du projet PSP I et les bureaux et studios de la Sous-Direction d'Education pour la
Sante; et 2) des centres de sante de la phase trois parce que le MSP a beneficie d'aides
bilaterales et multilaterales pour la realisation des activites de prevention du SIDA. Le
projet a cependant fourni un appui technique et financier aux activites IEC du PNLS (voir
para. 6 ci-dessus).
8   L'UNICEF a fourmi un premier lot de materiel au debut du projet. Le projet a complete cet
equipement et a remplace certains des appareils originels.
9   L'UNICEF a finance un assistant technique a long terme, specialiste en audiovisuel, qui a aide a
demarrer l'EPS.



29
9.    Renforcement institutionnel du Ministere de la Sante publique (MSP).
Dans le cadre de cette composante, le projet a financ& (i) une assistance technique a long
terme (2 ans) en planification; et (ii) des etudes sur l'autonomie de gestion des h6pitaux et
le financement du systeme de la sante en general et sur la decentralisation et le
developpement des ressources humaines. Pour renforcer les capacites du MSP au niveau
central, du personnel qualifie a ete recrute localement, notamment pour le Bureau
d'inspection et de planification (BIP) et pour les sous-directions de l'Epidemiologie et
Statistiques Sanitaires (EPISTAT) et de l'EPS. En outre, un appui logistique (vehicules et
materiel informatique) a et fourni aux principaux services centraux. Le projet a assure
aux cadres et personnels de secretariat la formation en traitement de texte et gestion de
tableurs. Avec l'appui financier et technique de l'USAID, le service EPISTAT a ete
informatise, a developpe les outils de collecte des donnees et forme le personnel de sante
des niveaux intermediaire et local. Cependant, le manque de financement risque de
compromettre les acquis du PSP I en ce domaine. Neuf bourses d'etudes de longue duree
(maitrise) ont ete financees par le projet: 2 en administration et gestion des services de
sante; 3 en IEC, 2 en sante communautaire et 2 en epidemiologie. Mis a part les deux
epidemiologistes attendus cet automne, tous les boursiers sont rentres et ont ete affectes
de maniere efficiente. Les services logistiques du MSP ont beneficie du soutien technique
de la cellule architecturale de l'UGP tant dans l'elaboration que dans le suivi de
l'execution des programmes d'investissement publics finances par le gouvemement et les
autres partenaires. Le niveau d'execution du budget extraordinaire et d'investissement
(BEI) est ainsi passe de 35% a 99% durant le cinquieme plan quinquennal 1988-1992.
10.   Malgre les acquis mentionnes ci-dessus, les ressources humaines restent la
principale contrainte relevee, tant au MSP qu'au niveau du projet.  En effet, dans
beaucoup de cas, le personnel forme dans le cadre du projet est engage par le secteur prive
qui leur offre des emplois qui paient mieux. Le MSP accusait deja des deficits importants
en 1993, mais la crise a fortement aggrave la situation. Plusieurs centres de sante (CS)
fonctionnent avec un seul, voire sans personnel qualifie et certains hopitaux n'ont plus de
medecins et fonctionnent temporairement avec le personnel d'ONG d'urgence. Un plan de
redeploiement et d'incitation du personnel en postes eloignes sera elabore et mis en oeuvre
par le PSP II. Avec le concours technique et financier des autres partenaires, le PSP H
aidera le MSP A developper une politique et des strategies de developpement des
ressources humaines a long terme.
11.   Les efforts entrepris avant 1993 avaient donne l'espoir au MSP de: (i)
mettre en place une politique sectorielle et un sixieme plan quinquennal 1993-1997; (ii)
consolider les processus de programmation-budgetisation a travers la cellule PIP-PDP-
PCT; (iii) demarrer le processus de decentralisation base sur les bureaux provinciaux de
sante (BPS) et la mise en autonomie progressive des h6pitaux et CS; (iv) demarrer une
strat6gie de financement basee sur I'assurance maladie pour le secteur non structure. Le
PSP II appuiera le gouvernement pour re-analyser la situation generee par la crise et
adopter un plan readapte pour la rehabilitation et la relance des reformes sectorielles
concernant ces questions. Ce plan inclura notamment l'61aboration de normes et standards
pour l'allocation et la gestion des ressources, le fonctionnement des h6pitaux et des CS et
les prestations des services de sante qui devait etre faite pendant le premier projet.



30
12.   Etablissement d'une base de donnee en matiere de population. Cette
composante a realise ses objectifs. Le projet a contribue au financement de l'operation
censitaire decennal de 1989, execute par le Ministere de l'Interieur avec l'appui technique
et financier du FNUAP. Depuis 1990, les resultats du recensement constituent la reference
pour divers usagers publics et prives et sont disponibles au departement de la population.
A l'occasion d'une recente mission d'evaluation effectuee par le FNUAP, la mission
residente de la Banque et les evaluateurs se sont convenus de recommander au
Gouvernement de preparer un plan d'action pour I'actualisation et l'amelioration des
statistiques demographiques nationales
Gestion du Projet
13.   Le projet a ete gere par une succession de huit fonctionnaires du MSP
nomme par le Ministre.  Le Directeur de projet gerait les ressources de toutes les
composantes, c'est a dire les responsables de composantes planifiaient et realisaient les
activites de leur composante, mais ne geraient pas leurs ressources. Cette succession de
directeurs et cette centralisation a cause des retards dans le demarrage des activites,
exceptees celles de la cellule architecturale. Le systeme comptable n'a pas ete informatise
ce qui rendait plus difficile la gestion des fonds. Bien qu'il n'y ait pas eu d'audits qualifies,
certains problemes comptables ont ete observes en 1994. L'engagement d'un comptable
qualifie en decembre 1994 a permis de remedier a la situation et, de maniere generale,
d'ameliorer la gestion financiere du projet. Depuis la crise, la gestion du charroi est
devenue un probleme a cause des nombreuses requisitions qui non seulement privent le
projet de moyens de transport pour executer ses activites, mais qui entrainent des frais
supplementaires, car les vehicules requisitionnes sont souvent endommages.
Prestations des services de la Banque Mondiale
14.   Le Gouvernement est generalement satisfait du service foumi par la
Banque. II a constate qu'il y a eu une continuite dans les discussions, les negociations et
le suivi, ce qui a ete important pour l'execution du projet dans un contexte ouj il n'y avait
pas eu d'operations a l'echelle sectorielle au prealable. Le Gouvernement a aussi note
qu'il etait particulierement satisfait par: (i) le fait que la banque avait une approche
sectorielle et s'interessait a des domaines tels que l'appui institutionnel et l'IEC qui allaient
au dela de programmes specifiques et que les autres partenaires ne financaient pas; (ii)
I'approche sectorielle qui a permis d'identifier les activites prioritaires dans le cadre de la
politique sectorielle et ainsi de "canaliser" et de mieux coordonner les activites financees
par les divers bailleurs de fonds concernes par le secteur de la sante; (iii) la flexibilite de la
Banque qui a permis de re-allouer des fonds du projet quand des aides bilaterales et
multilaterales ont ete mises a la disposition du Gouvemement pour financer des activites
prevues pour le projet; (iv) 1'etablissement de normes et standards qui sont maintenant
utilises par la plupart des partenaires; (v) le choix des membres des missions de
preparation et de supervision qui avaient, en general, des specialites/competences
pertinentes aux questions qui devaient 8tre traitees; et (vi) le fait que le projet a stimule le
developpement du secteur prive (petites et moyennes entreprises) en donnant la preference



31
aux entreprises nationales et locales, en particulier dans le domaine de la construction. 11
aurait toutefois souhaite que les missions de supervision soient plus frequentes.
Lecons-cles et future operation
15.   Comme il l'a ete indique ci-dessus, le projet a etb realise d'une maniere
satisfaisante jusqu'A la crise, moment ou il avait en partie realise ses objectifs. Cependant,
des lecons peuvent Etre tirees de cette experience, en particulier: (i) le changement
frequent des directeurs de projet a cause des retards et son mode de selection n'assurait
pas qu'il avait toutes les competences requises pour le poste; (ii) le systeme de gestion
financiere et administrative n'etant pas informatise rendait la gestion du projet moins
efficace et moins transparente; (iii) la gestion tres centralisee du projet a cause des retards
qui auraient pu 8tre evites si les responsables de composantes avaient ete plus impliques;
(iv) les bureaux provinciaux ont besoin de ressources et d'inforrnation suffisantes pour
planifier, gerer et superviser les activites de sante au niveau de la province; (v) les
capacites de gestion et de planification de l'EPS ont besoin d'8tre renforcees pour
permettre a l'EPS de repondre aux demandes de tous les programmes et assurer la
sensibilisation de la population quand les reformes sectorielles seront mises en place; (vi)
la mission de l'EPS n'est pas claire pour tous ses partenaires et doit 8tre clarifiee; (vii) les
capacites IEC ont besoin d'etre decentralisees pour que les activites de communication
interpersonnelle au niveau peripherique puissent etre efficaces; et (viii) il est difficile de
suivre la realisation des activites et d'evaluer la qualite de certaines activites (par exemple,
des consultations prenatales) parce que le systeme d'information ne collecte pas toutes les
informations necessaires, en consequence ces systemes ont besoin d'etre revises pour
assurer que tous les indicateurs de performance et d'impact qui ont ete identifies lors de la
preparation du projet puissent etre suivis regulierement.
16.    Lors de la conception du Deuxieme Projet Sante et Population (PSP II)
qui a ete n6gocie en mars 1995 et signe en juin 1995, ces lecons ont ete prises en
consideration et une solution a ete proposee pour chacune de ces contraintes. Les
objectifs de cette deuxieme operation dans le secteur de la sante sont de: (i) renforcer la
capacite du MSP a concevoir et mettre en oeuvre des reformes sectorielles majeures; (ii)
ameliorer la disponibilite et la qualite des soins de sante en milieu rural; (iii) contribuer a
reduire le taux de croissance de la population et les taux de mortalite matemelle et
infantile; et (iv) promouvoir les comportements benefiques vis A vis de la sante et de la
planification familiale. Ces objectifs demontrent l'engagement continu du Gouvemement
envers les objectifs du premier projet. les principaux risques au succes de cette nouvelle
operation restent les m8mes que ceux qui sont presentes dans le Rapport d'Evaluation du
Projet (para. 6.2, page 40).
Washington, le 17 octobre 1995



32
B.    BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR: RESUME DES TRAVAUX
D'EVALUATION DU PSP I
I. INTRODUCTION
Le premier Projet Sante et Population vient de se temliner avec le mois de Juin 1995.
On remarque a travers le pays que certains anciens dispensaires ont ete renoves, agrandis pour
inclure de nouveaux services et mieux equipes.
Grace au projet, ces dispensaires sont aujourd'hui appeles centres de sante, leur mission
sera desormais conforme a la nouvelle philosophie de promouvoir la sante de la population.
Cette philosophie du projet se traduit a travers les objectifs suivants:
-     Contribuer a la reduction de la mortalite et de la morbidite matemelle et infantile;
Promouvoir l'espacement des naissances et le Planning Familial et accro^itre
l'accessibilit6 aux diverses methodes contraceptives.
Ameliorer 1'efficience et l'efficacite des services de sante
Avant le demarrage d'une deuxieme operation de developpement du secteur, ia est
apparu necessaire, pour le gouvemement et la Banque Mondiale d'evaluer les resultats du
premier projet et d'en tirer les lecons necessaires pour l'avenir.
Entre autres travaux, inities a cet effet, le Ministere de la Sante Publique a commandite
une etude d'evaluation aupres des beneficiaires des services de sante matemelle et infantile et de
Planning Familial (SM1-PF) et d'information, Education et Communication (EC).
II. CADRE DE L'ETUDE
Description des composantes SMI-PF et [EC du Projet Sante et Population I
a) La composante SMNlPF
Cette composante conceme particulierement la sante de la mere et celle de l'enfant.
Ses objectifs sont les suivants:
Ameliorer les services de surveillance matemelle touchant particulierement les services
de consultations prenatales et les conditions d'accouchement.
Ameliorer les services de surveillance infantile avec les programmes de consultation
des nourrissons et de vaccination



33
Promouvoir 1'espacement et la limitation des naissances par la contraception.
b)     La composante [EC
cette composante a ete mise en place pour promouvoir les programmes de sante aupres
des la population.
Les objectifs a atteindre par cette composante sont les suivants:
-      informer la population sur les facteurs de risque lies aux grossesses rapprochees
-      encourager l'abaissement du nombre d'enfants par famille
-      stimuler l'utilisation des methodes contraceptives
-      promouvoir des programmes de sante et d'hygiene publique
Pour realiser les objectifs des composantes SMI/PF et IEC, le Projet Sante et Population a
proced6 a une renovation et a une rehabilitation des infrastructures sanitaires du Burundi. II
fallait de nouvelles salles, de nouveaux equipements pour accroitre les services et leurs qualites.
Dans la prevention, 30 centres de sante devaient etre renoves par le projet en deux
phases:
*       uGrace a la bonne gestion des fonds, 11 centres de sante supplementaires (sur 13
prevus) ont pu etre renoves durant la 36 phase portant a 41 le nombre total de centres de sante
rehabilites par le Projet Sante et Population I. Les rapports font ressortir que 27 centres de
sante renoves etaient deja fonctionnels avant la crise d'octobre 93. C'est dans ce groupe qu'on a
choisi une partie de l'echantillon de notre etude.
m. L'ECHANTILLONNAGE
20 centres de sante renoves et 18 centres de sante non renoves ont pu &re choisis a partir de ce
critere.
L'enquete a et faite aupres d'adultes maries ou pas ayant des enfants ou n'en ayant pas
pour differentes raisons et acceptant librement de repondre aux questions.
Les personnes residant dans la zone d'attraction du centre de sante apres les
evenements d'octobre 93 n'ont pas fait partie de l'echantillon, car ils ne disposaient pas
d'informations sur la periode anterieure.
L'identification de la population enqu8tee selon l'age, le sexe, 1'etat-civil et l'occupation
montre que les deux populations (beneficiaires et temoins) sont sirnilaires et donc



34
comparables (annexe 4 du rapport d'enquete d'evaluation aupres des b6neficiaires des
services SMI-PF et LEC).
Les resultats de 1'enquete aupres des beneficiaires et des prestataires des services SMI-
PF et IEC mettant en evidence l'impact du projet sur:
l Ies connaissances et les pratiques des beneficiaires,
l Ies perceptions des beneficiaires,
l Ies perceptions des prestataires
Pour evaluer cet impact, nous avons calcule le risque relatif (R.R) et la Fraction attribuable
(AF) en utilisant le programme EPI - INFO 6.2.
Le risque relatif et la fraction attribuable sont des indicateurs quantitatifs d'une association
causale.
IV. L'IMPACT DU PROJET
1. L'Lnpact du projet sur les connaissances et l'utiisation des services de sante par les
beneficiaires
. les services les plus connus par les beneficiaires (plus de 50% des enquetes) sont les
services curatifs (90%), la vaccination (80%), la consultation pre-natale (67%), la
maternite (66%) et la consultation des nourrissons (54%)
. les services les moins connus sont la petite chirurgie (1%), le laboratoire (14%), la
nutrition (17%), I'education pour la sante (22,5%), I'hebergement (34%) et le planning
familial (42%)
fl apparait que le projet a eu le plus d'impact sur les services d'Education pour la sante (690/%),
laboratoire (490/%), planning familial (46,5%), maternite (366%), rehabilitation nutritionnelle
(33%), hebergement (31%) c'est a dire les services nouvellement cres ou ameliores par le
projet.
Les resultats ont demontre la correlation existante entre la connaissance et l'utilisation des
services. En outre, meme si le degre de connaissance des services est legerement inferieur pour
le groupe temoin, il n'y a pas de difference significative entre les deux groupes etudies d'une
part, et d'autre part la hierarchisation du degre d'importance des services est quasi-identique
autant pour les beneficiaires que pour les temoins.



35
2. L'Impact du projet sur les perceptions des beneficiaires des services de sante.
a) Appreciation globale
La majorite des beneficiaires apprecient positivement les services rendus par leurs
centres de sante:
. accueil (91%)
. competence du personnel (89%)
. hygiene des locaux et du materiel (81%)
. disponibilite du personnel (75%)
. temps d'attente (62%)
. disponibilite du medicament (54%)
. disponibilite des examens de laboratoire (50%/o)
Parnmi les lacunes soulignees, il faut noter le temps d'attente qui aurait ete augmente de 18%,
alors que pour pres de 60% des beneficiaires, le nombre et la qualification des personnels n'ont
pas et amelior6s.
3. L'impact du projet sur les perceptions des prestataires
D'apres les prestataires de services, le projet a eu un effet tres positif sur le
fonctionnement du centre de sante (100% des enquetees ). Par contre, la crise d'octobre 93 a
eu un effet desastreux sur le fonctionnement du centre (46%). Les suggestions prestataires
portent sur:
L'augmentation du personnel (97%)
le reequipement du centre de sante (69%)
I'amelioration de l'approvisionnement en medicaments et
vaccins (62%).



36
V. RECOMMANDATIONS
10 Personnel de Sante
Nous recommandons une etude urgente sur la politique de redistribution du personnel
de sante y compris les mesures d'incitations pour fideliser le personnel dans les endroits les
moins attrayants.
En effet, il est inutile de construire de beaux batiments et dy metlre de nouveaux
6quipements si on n'a pas de personnel pour faire fonctionner ces services.
2. Approvisionnement en medicaments
2.1. A court terme, il faudra mieux apprehender les problemes sanitaires que connaissent les
populations et encadrer les directeurs des provinces sanitaires et les chefs de secteurs en
difficulte. Pour cela, le MSP devra relancer le systeme de supervision (et d'approvisionnement)
qui a et quelque peu ebranIl par la crise.
2.2. A moyen terme, il faut repenser le systeme d'approvisionnement pour le rendre autonome
et decentralise.
Nous pensons entre autres que la cr6ation d'une centrale d'achat de medicaments generiques
accompagnee par l'implantation de pharmacies communautaires au niveau de chaque centre de
sante pourrait etre une des solutions.
3. Les batiments
3.1. In faudrait que le projet pousse les collectivites locales a reparer d'urgence les batiments
endommages. Quant aux fissures et autres vices des ouvrages, il faut faire jouer la garantie
decennale.
3.2. II faut disponibiliser un mode d'emploi architectural des centres de sante et prevoir une
formation des prestataires a ce sujet.
3.3. II faut egalement prevoir une formation a l'intention des prestations de service sur l'interet
et l'utilisation de l'incinerateur.
3.4. II est recommande d'utiliser les tuiles (fabrication locale) a la place des t6les ou des bacs,
car c'est un materiel peu cher et disponible a linterieur du pays. Une analyse cout/benefice
mettrait en evidence l'avantage certain de l'utilisation de la tuile



37
4. Les equipements
4.1. II faut reparer les equipements en mauvais etat et remplacer ceux qui ont et vole. La mise
en route des cellules regionales de maintenance pourrait aider grandement les centres de sante a
maintenir leurs equipements en bon etat.
5. Les lits de maternite et d'hebergement
A cause de la crise, 11% des centres de sante renoves ne possedent plus de lits de maternite ni
d'hebergement.
5.1. Cette question devrait trouver une reponse adequate et rapide par les autorites du
Ministere de la sante publique en collaboration avec les autorites communales.
6. la disponibilite de 1'eau courante
nI faudrait que les ministeres ayant la sante publique et l'approvisionnement en eau
potable dans leurs attributions fassent tout pour faire fonctionner les adductions d'eau en panne.
7. Le manuel de sante maternelle et infantile
Outil indispensable A la prise de decision en SMI-PF et EEC, ce manuel a et distribue dans tous
les centres de sante du pays (en 1971) pour ameliorer la competence du personnel de sante.
Celui-ci I'a tellement apprecie qu'a l'occasion des mutations, certains l'emportent avec eux.
7.1. Pour eviter cela; nous pensons que l'on devrait donner a chaque membre du personnel de
sante; ce manuel de SMI/PF et EC; Probablement sous une forme moins luxueuse. Ainsi on
eviterait le vol de la forme plastifiee qui se trouve dans les centres de sante.
8. le syst&me de ref6rence des cas graves
8.1. Nous recommandons au Projet d'executer rapidement le programme de relier les centres
de sante aux h6pitaux par un syst6me de phonie afin de faire appel a l'ambulance de l'h6pital
chaque fois de besoin.
Ce volet pourrait etre integre dans le 26 Projet Sante et Population.
9. La gestion des centres de sante
La gestion actuelle du centre de. sante n'est pas clairement definie et cela a des repercussions
nefastes sur le fonctionnement du centre.
9.1. Nous recommandons une btude dans les meilleurs dblais pour voir comment mettre en
place un systeme de gestion plus adaptb et plus fonctionnel afin d'amiriorer la qualitb des
services rendus a la population.



38
Nous recomnandons une etude dans les meilleurs delais pour voir comment mettre en place un
systeme de gestion plus adapte et plus fonctionnel afin d'ameliorer la qualite des services rendus
a la population.
Nous pensons entre autres qu'en responsabilisant davantage le personnel des centres de sante,
qu'on peut amnliorer sensiblement la qualite des soins.
VL CONCLUSION
Au terme de cette etude d'evaluation aupres des beneficiaires des services de SMI-PF
et IEC du Projet Sante et Population, il convient de signaler que malgre la crise socio-politique
qui frappe le Burundi depuis 1993, les services de sante continuent a fonctionner (certes au
ralenti), contrairement a beaucoup d'autres secteurs qui sont carrement arretes. Ceci a permis la
r6alisation de cette etude.
Les beneficiaires apprecient particulierement la cr6ation ou I'amelioration des services
de maternite, d'hebergement, d'education pour la sante et de rehabilitation nutritionnelie. En
d'autres mots, on peut affirmer que le projet a rencontre globalement les attentes de la
population m&ne si les planificateurs n'avaient malheureusement pas associe etroitement celle-
ci a sa conception.
Tous les indicateurs de performance sont en chute libre:
le deficit du personnel depasse les 300/o par rapport a 1992.
la couverture vaccinale est tombee a moins de 35% contre plus de 80%/o en 1992
la prevalence contraceptive est de 2,5% contre 4% en 1992
le taux d'utilisation des services de consultation prenatale, des nounrissons, etc... ont
baisse de facon dramatique.
II faut les mesures urgentes et innovatrices pour revitaliser le systeme de sante en
derive et nous pensons qu'une decentralisation adaptee pourrait &re un des remedes. Mais au
prealable s'impose  il faut arreter la crise socio-politique actuelle qui a trop dure et fait souffrir
la population. Et pour ce faire, il faut qu'une politique audacieuse et courageuse de
reconciliation nationale soit rapidement impulsee par l'autorite.






IMAGING
Report No:        15538
Type: ICR



