OFFCAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1862 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Population and Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1862 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1988, between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the "Borrower") aKd INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
donors to assist in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "BIP" means Bureau de l'Inspection et de la Planifica-
tion, the Bureau of Inspection and Planning of the Borrower's
Ministry of Health, responsible, inter alia, of planning, monitor-
ing and evaluating the execution of Parts A through E of the
Project;
(b) "Department of Population" means the Department of the
Borrower's Ministry of Interior responsible, inter alia, of
planning, monitoring and evaluating Part F of the Project;
(c) "Inspector General of Health" means the head of BIP,
filling, inter alia, the position of Project Coordinator;


﻿-2-
(d)  "MI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior;
(e)  "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(f) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement;
(g) "Project Preparation Advance" means the aggregate of the
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to
exchanges of letters dated July 4, 1985 and October 22, 1985; and
May 25, 1987 and June 25, 1987, respectively, between the Borrower
and the Association;
(h)  "SDEPS" means Sous Direction de 1'Education pour la
Sant6, the Health Education Division of MOH; and
(i) "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eleven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars in the
Bank of the Republic of Burundi on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association: (i) a special account (hereinafter
referred to as "Special Account A") for the purposes of Parts A
through E of the Project; and (ii) a special account (hereinafter
referred to as "Special Account B") for the purposes of Part F of
the Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Prep-
aration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, nr in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15,
commencing May 15, 1998 and ending November 15, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on Novem-
ber 15, 2007 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790


﻿in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOH and MI and under the overall responsibility of BIP and of the
Department of Population with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic
and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Project. Such exchange of views shall take place: (i) for the
first time not later than October 31, 1988; (ii) not later than
October 31 of each year thereafter before completion of the


﻿-5-
Project; and (iii) at such other times as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c) Prior to any such exchange of views the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association:
(i) a project performance review, including project
management, for the preceding year of Project
implementation, carried out under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) a project implementation plan for the following
year of Project implementation in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request; and
(iii) the revised three year rolling Program of
Investments and Public Expenditures of the Borrower
for the health sector.
(d) Without limitation to the generality of the provisions
of paragraph (a) above with regard to the provision of funds, the
Borrower shall:
(i) open, and thereafter maintain, in the Borrower's
currency and in the name of MOH-Health and Popula-
tion Project, an account in the Bank of the
Republic of Burundi on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) deposit into such Project Account an initial amount
equivalent to $30,000; and
(iii) thereafter deposit into the Project Account, not
later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and
October 31 during Project implementation, amounts
equivalent to the financial requirements of the
Project as assessed for the next three months in
the project implementation plan referred to in
paragraph (c) (ii) of this Section.
(e) Amounts deposited in the Project Account pursuant to
paragraphs (d) (ii) and (iii) above shall be used only to make
payments to meet local expenditures made or to be made in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project and
not eligible for financing under the Credit.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. In order to carry out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1988, acquire all
sites not already owned by the Borrower for the health centers to
be rehabilitated under such Part of the Project; and (b) recruit
not less than four additional nurses for each of the health
centers mentioned under (a).
Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall, not later than August 31, 1988, appoint a man-
ager of SDEPS and two advisors whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.04. In order to carry out Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall: (a) prepare a five-year National AIDS Control
Program; (b) not later than March 31, 1988, submit such Program to
the Association; and (c) on the occasion of the exchanges of views
provided for in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, submit to the
Association annual updates of such Program.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall appoint eleven multidisciplinary health super-
visors in each of its provinces in addition to the ones already
appointed in the provinces of Bujumbura, Ngozi, Bururi and Gitega,
according to the following schedule: (i) three not later than
December 31, 1988; (ii) three not later than December 31, 1989;
and (iii) five not later than December 31, 1990.
Section 3.06. In order to carry out Part E of the Project,
the Borrower shall: (a) prepare a policy paper on health financing
policy development; and (b) not later than December 31, 1988,
furnish to the Association the recommendations (including a plan
of action) contained therein.
Section 3.07. In order to carry out Part F of the Project,
the Borrower shall: (a) prepare a Census Master Plan for the
programming of the Borrower's activities relating to the 1989
Census Project; (b) not later than March 31, 1988, submit such
Master Plan to the Association; (c) on the occasion of the
exchanges of views provided for in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment, submit to the Association progress reports on the Borrower's
activities relating to the 1989 Census Project in such form and
detail as the Association may reasonably request; (d) prepare a
Plan of Action for the improvement of national demographic and
vital statistics; and (e) tot later than January 31, 1990, submit
such Plan of Action to tb3 Association.


﻿-  7  -
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall appoint, not later than
December 31, 1988, a full time deputy project coordinator to
assist the Inspector General of Health.
Section 3.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall, from time to
time, reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿- 8 -
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their prep-
aration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has employed, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the following
consultants and experts: (i) a technical assistant in health plan-
ning to support BIP for at least the first two years of Project
implementation; (ii) a technical assistant in health architecture
to support BIP for at least the first three years of Project
implementation; and (iii) a certified public accountant to assist
the Budget Division of the MOH in the Project related accounting;
and
(b) the Borrower has opened the Project Account and depo-
sited the initial amount referred to in Section 3.01 (d) (ii).


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the pur-
poses of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Health is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re de la Sant6 Publique
B.P. 1820
Bujumbura
Rdpublique du Burundi
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISANTE                      5131 MINISANTE BDI
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BY
pCIRegional Vice President,
A'                   Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1,   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Lxpenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:               4,690,000        100%
Construction and
Rehabilitation
(2) Furniture, Equip-           1,570,000       100% of foreign
ment, Teaching                              expenditures and
Materials, Vehi-                            80% of local
cles and Supplies                           expenditures
(3) Training, Consul-            790,000        100%
tants' and Experts'
Services
(4) Goods and Services         1,400,000        100% of foreign
for AIDS control                            expenditures and
activities                                  80% of local
expenditures
(5) Operating Costs              550,000        50%
(6) Personnel                    790,000        100%
for Census
Activities


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7) Refunding of PPF              610,000        Amount due pur-
suant to section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated                   600,000
(Categories 1 to 5)
TOTAL                 11,000.000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) under Category 4 of paragraph 1 above until the National
AIDS Control Plan referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agree-
ment has been submitted and is satisfactory to the Association;
and
(c) under Category 6 of paragraph 1 above until the Census
Master Plan referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement has
been submitted and is satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to contribute to the
reduction of maternal and child morbidity and mortality; (ii) to
promote birth spacing and strengthen the National Maternal and
Child Health and Family Planning Program; (iii) to assist in
controlling the AIDS epidemic; (iv) to improve the overall
effectiveness and efficiency of the health system; and (v) to
improve the demographic data base needed for socio-economic
planning.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of maternal and child health services and
of family planning services in all health facilities in
the Borrower's territory.
Part B:   Establishment of population and health information,
education and communication programs.
Part C:   Support to the National AIDS Control Program.
Part D:   Strengthening of the planning and management capabili-
ties of MOH at the central, provincial and field levels.
Part E:   Development of new financing mechanisms for improvement
of resource allocation for the health sector.
Part F:   Support to the 1989 Census of Population and dissemina-
tion of its results.
T     * i
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for furniture shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$20,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the construction of health centers and regional
maintenance centers may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with the Borrower's applicable procedures and paragraph 3.3 of the
Guidelines.
2.   Furniture which cannot be grouped in bid packages of more
than the equivalent of $20,000, but totalling less than $50,000,


﻿-  15  -
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with the Bor-
rower's applicable procedures and paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
3.   Vehicles may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.   Items which cannot be grouped, or groups of items, estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with paragraph 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and to each contract
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of any of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of any of the Special Accounts,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Asso-
ciation has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants and Experts
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants and experts
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of
Special Account A, Categories (1) to (5) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) in the case
of Special Account B Category (6) set forth in said table;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into each of the
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
equivalent, in the case of Special Accoun A, to $600,000 and in
the case of Special Account B, to $150,000.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
corresponding Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish such Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation concerned, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into such Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of such Special Account at such intervals or in
such minimum amounts as the Association shall specify. On the
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into such Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish it with amounts not exceeding
the amount of payments made out of such Special Account for eligi-
ble expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 18 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of request for
replenishment or upon request of the Association, such documents
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into any Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in any Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower


﻿- 19 -
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into such
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


