OFFICIAL
DOCMT LOAN NUMBER 2010 MAS
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
MAURITIUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2010 MAS
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       Au   -                , 1981, between
MAURITIUS (hereinafter al1ed the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 21,
1981 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve a structural adjustment of the
Borrower's economy, declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of that program, and requesting assistance from the Bank
in the financing of urgent imports; and
(B) the Bank has decided in support of such program to
provide assistance to the Borrower by making the loan as herein-
after provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions.; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
s.tbject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 2.01. No. 11 shall read:
"The term Project means the activities that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev.2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifica-
tion, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.2 (1975);
(b) "Central Bank" means the Bank of Mauritius established
and operating pursuant to the Bank of Mauritius Ordinance, 1966,
as such Ordinance may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Project Account" means the account established at the
Central Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement; and
(d) "Rupees" and "Rs" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of imported goods included in such
Schedule.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for goods costing more than $3,000,000 equivalent to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured on the
basis of procedures that include broad international tendering
amongst suppliers from the Bank's member countries and Switzerland
and from Taiwan and contract award to the lowest evaluated respon-
sive bidder. Before requesting a withdrawal of proceeds of the
Loan on account of any such contract, the Borrower shall cause the
Bank to be furnished with a brief report, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, on the procedures followed in procuring
such contract. If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procedures followed in procuring such contract are inconsis-
tent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Section,
no expenditures under such contract shall be financed out of the


﻿-3-
proceeds of the Loan, The Bank shall promptly inform the Borrower
of, and state the reasons for, any such determination.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower's Central Bank is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower shall entrust the Central Bank with responsibility for
the coordination and collection of relevant documentation and the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan, which
withdrawal applications shall, to the extent practicable, be
consolidated so as to provide for withdrawal of at least $25,000
equivalent. Each such withdrawal application shall include
evidence satisfactory to the Bank in respect of the goods for
which financing is requested under such application.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall open an account (the
Project Account) at the Central Bank and shall, upon each


﻿-4-
withdrawal from the Loan Account, deposit in said account in
accordance with its usual financial procedures the equivalent in
Rupees of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan
Account (such equivalent to be determined as of the respective
date of such withdrawal). The amounts so deposited in the Project
Account shall be used exclusively to finance capital expenditures
included in the Borrower's public sector investment program.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by June 30,
1982, or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree,
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the utilization of the amounts deposited in the Project
Account pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all such action includ-
ing the expeditious granting of import licenses as shall be
necessary or convenient to facilitate the timely 3mportation of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that adequate provision
shall be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. Upon the award of any contract for goods
costing more than $1,000,000 equivalent to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Bank shall, no later than
November 15, 1981, carry out a review of the progress achieved in
carrying out the program referred to in paragraph (A) of the
Preamble to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public


﻿-5-
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that records shall
be kept to register all expenditures financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with sound accounting practices consis-
tently applied.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) Thereof, namely, that an event has occurred which
shall make it impribable that the program, or a significant part
of the program, referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement will
be carried out.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date    pol&i4hIi  ,0@ft/ is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFIN                             249 EXTERN
Port Louis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
MAURITIUS
By A *1
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The goods that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be imported items included in SITC Divisions, with the
exception of the following Divisions or Groups:
Division or Group
Section     Division Code     Group                Heading
0        00 through 09   all groups      -  Food and live
animals chiefly
for food
1        11 and 12       all groups      -  Beverages and
tobacco
5        57              all groups      - Explosives and
pyrotechnic
products
7        76              all groups      -  Telecommunications
and sound recording
and reproducing
apparatus and
equipment
775             - Household type,
electrical and non-
electrical equip-
ment, n.e.s.
781             -  Passenger motorcars
(other than public-
service type vehi-
cles), including
vehicles designed
for the transport
of both passengers
and goods


﻿-9-
Division or Group
Section     Division Code       Gron                Heading
785            - Motorcycles, motor-
scooters and other
cycles, motorized
and non-motorized;
invalid carriages
79               all groups     - Other transport
equipment
8        83 through 85    all groups     - Travel goods, hand-
bags and similar
containers
all groups     - Articles of apparel
and clothing acces-
sories
all groups     - Footwear
8        88 and 89        all groups     - Photographic Appa-
ratus, Equipment
and Supplies and
Optical Goods
n.e.s., Watches and
Clocks
all groups     - Miscellaneous Manu-
factured Articles
n.e.s.
9        91 through 97    all groups     - Commodities and
transactions not
classified else-
where in the SITC
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;


﻿- 10 -
(b) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which another official export financing institution or any inter-
national development institution shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(c) expenditures for items included in SITC Section 3
(Minerals, fuels and related materials), in an aggregate amount
exceeding $3,000,000 equivalent;
(d) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(e) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; and
(f) expenditures for goods procured under invoices for less
than $5,000 equivalent.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1985
through   October 15, 1997                    575,000
On April 15, 1998                                  625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.70%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                     3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.20%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                     8.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                     9.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /      -2Cday of      , 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


