Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7866
JORDAN
FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1893-JO)
JUNE 23, 1989
Infrastructure Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS
AUJRPG         Ammnan Urban Region Planning Group
CVDB            Cities and Villages Development Bank
GOJ            Government of Jordan
HB             Housing Bank
HBCR           Completion Report by the Housing Bank
IDB             Industrial Development Bank
LCHD           Low Cost Housing Department, in Housing Bank
lpcd           Liters per capita per day
MMRAE           Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Environment
MOP             Ministry of Planning
NPC             National Planning Council
PAD             Population Affairs Directorate in UDD
ECR             Project Completion Report
SAh             Staff Appraisal Report
UDD             Urban Development Department
UDDCR           Completion Report, by the Urban Development Department
UDP1            First Urban Development Project (Loan 1893-JO)
UDP2            3econd Urban Development Project (Loan 2587-JO)
UDPs            Urban development projects
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
VTC             Vocational Training Corporation
Country Exchange Rates
US$            JD
Appraisal Year Average                    1.00    =    0.2981
Intervening Years Average                 1.' )    =    0.3610
Completion Year Average                   1.00    =    0.3387



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
USA
Of ceod Of.ctm-cf~Ai
Opwatmi Ewa.t~in
June 23, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Jordan -
First Urban Development Project (Loan 1893-JO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Jordan - First Urban Development Project (Loan
1893-JO)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluatinn Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a re tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authornution.



FOR OFCLAL USE ONLY
JORDAN
FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1893-JO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface     ...........................................
Basic Data Sheet       .................. ................
Highlights      ...................... ..................           v
I.  INIRODUCTION..                                                             1
II.  PROJECT BACKGROUND                 ..                                     2
III.      PROJECT PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND IMPLEMENTATION                    2
A. Preparation and Appraisal.                                        2
B. Objectives and Description.                                       3
C. Implementation.                                                   4
D.   Performance of Agencies Involved .4
IV.       ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.             ...                   4
A.  Provision of Affordable Housing.                                 4
B. Subsidies.                                                        5
C. Community Facilities.                                             6
D. Empployment.                                                      6
E.   Policy Studies ...................,                             7
F.   Institutional Development .......................               8
V.        ECONOMIC REEVALUATION ................................                9
VI.       SPECIAL TOPICS .........       .............................        10
A.   Reporting ..........         .............................     10
B.   Community Development ...........................              11
C.   Incomes and Affordability ........................             12
New Sites .........        ............................     12
Upgrading Sites ...............................             13
Financing Construction ........................             14
D.   Private Construction Activity .....           ..............   14
E.   Health Improvements on Upgrading Sites ....          ......    15
VII.      CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......... .. ..........             16
ANNEXES
1.   Reference Documents .............................              18
2.   Income and Affordability .........................             21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i3.  Private Construction Activity in UDPI Sites  .....    30
4.  Economic Rate of Return .......... ................  34
5.  Detailed Recommendations Based on UDPl
Performance  . ............ ........................  37
6.  Photographs and Map     ..........................   41
7.  Completion R!port of the
Urban Development Department ....................    52
8.  Completion Report of the Housing Bank .......... .    128
9.  Comments from the Borrower ................          153



JORDAN
FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PRO.-ECT (LOAN 1893-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completior Report (PCR) ,6or the First Urban
Development Project in Jordan, for which Loan 1893-JO in the amount of US$
21.0 million was approved on July 15, 1980. The loan was closed on December
31, 1987, two and a half years behind schedule. USS 1.38 million of the loan
was cancelled and the last disbursement was made on July 11, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of Country
Department III, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region and is based,
inter alia. on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
internal Bank memoranda; and the Borrower's project completion reports which
are attached to the PCR (Annexes 7 and 8).
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached to the
report (Annex 9).



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1893-JO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual or
Item                           Expectation      Current Estimate
Total Project Cost ($US million)              57.6                62.5
Underrun or overrulL kUS$ million)                               4.9
Loan Amount (US$ million)                     21.0
Disbursed                                                       19.191'
Cancelled                                                        0.45L'
Undisbursed                                                        1.36"'
Repaid to IBRD                                                     4.84i'
Outstanding                                                       20.95"'
Date Physical Components Completed           06/85                 06/871'
Time Overrun (%)                                                  55
Economic Rate of Return (2)                   20                  12
Upgrading                                   19                  11
Sites and Services                          20                  13
1/ As of March 31, 1988
2/ Date of completion of componients identified at appraisal. Additional
minor physical components to be completed by 12/31/88.



- iii -
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of                 Date of
Item          Month/Year    Weeks    Persons  Staffweeks   Report
Preidentification      08/77           1         1           1       09/20/77
Identification/
Preparation          02/78          2         4           8        03/24/78
Preparation            02/79          0.5       2           1        03/30/79
Preparation            05/79          2         3           6        07/19/79
Preappraisal           07/79          1         4           4        08/31/79
Appraisal              09/79          3         5          15         10/22/79
Post Appraisal         04/80          1.5       2           3        04/15/80
38
Supervision            09/80          1         1           1        10/31/80
Supervision            02/81          0.5       2           1        04/30/81
Supervision            06/81          1         1           1        07/31/81
Supervision            10/81          0.5       3           1.5      12/14/81
Supervision            06/82          1         2           2        06/25/82
Supervision            10/82          2         1           2        12/03/82
Supervision            05/83          1         1           1        06/23/83
Supervision            10/83          3         1           3        11/10/83
Supervision            02/84          1         2           2        04/06/84
Supervision            10/84          2         4           8*       11/05/84
Supervision            09/85          2         1           2        10/21/85
Supervision            02/86          2         3           6        03/07/86
Supervision            04/87          2         2           4        05/13/87
Supervision            10/87          1.5       1           1.5      11/03/87
Completion             01/88          1.5       2           3        02/09/88
39
Total                                                      77
* Combined with preparation of second project.



- iv -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original
Item                            Plan       Revision         Actual
First Mention in Files                                             05/06/77
Government's Application                                            10/05/77
Negotiations                           01/80        03/80          06/11/80
Board Approval                         03/80        05/80          07/15/80
Loan Agreement Date                    09/80                       09/08/80
Effectiveness Date                     12/09/80     04/81          05/22/81
Closing Date                           06/30/85                     12/31/87
Borrower                               The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Executing Agency                       The Urban Development Departmentt"
Fiscal Year of Borrower                January 1 to December 31
1.    Follow-on Project Name           Second Urban Development Project
Loan Number                   2587-JO
Amount (US$ million)          28.0
Loan Agreement Date           07/08185
2.    Second Follow-on Project
Name                          National Urban Development Project
Loan Number                   2841-JO
Amount (US$ million)          26.4
Loan Agreement Date           07/13/87
I/  At appraisal, this office was in the Municipality of Amman; during
the project implementation, the office became part of the Mitnistry of
Municipal and Rural Affairs.



v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1893-JO)
HIGHLIGHTS
The First Urban Development Project has enjoyed considerable
success (paras. 4.01, 7.02-7.0i.). Although there were some initial
delays due to the need to redesign the sites and services schemes to
accomodate the increased plot sizes required by the Government of Jordan,
implementation proceeded with no major problems thereafter (para. 3.05).
By making serviced land available at affordable prices, the project has
shown that, when given legal access to land, households are motivated to
invest time, effort, and financial resources in solving their own housing
problems. This was amply demonstrated in the speed with which houses of
good quality were constructed in slum areas, once land tenure had been
granted to the residents. The overwhelming response to advertisements
for the small serviced plots offered by the project also demonstrated
high excess demand at the lower end of the housing market, cLue to the
unavailability of affordable plots for low-cost housing.
The project has also been successful in its affordability (para.
4.01) and cost recovery (para. 4.05) objectives: the beneficiaries on
the new sites, with some minor exceptions discussed in this report, are
within the target group with respect to household incomes; and on the
upgrading sites, the households who were resident at the time of initial
surveys are, on the whole, the households who have benefitted from the
project. Very few beneficiary households ort the upgrading sites have rot
yet committed themselves to pay for the land and services provided by the
project.
Institutional objectives have been fulfilled (paras. 4.12-4.14);
The Urban Development Department (UDD) and The Housing Bank (HB) have
gained experience from this project and its first follow-up, which allows
them to prepare subprojects (UDD) and appraise them (HB) under the third
project.
Recommendations concerning ongoing and future urban projects in
Jordan focus on continuing the progress made under the project in
reducing housing costs for low-income urban families through decreased
plot sizes and on-plot provision. The need for increased attention to
beneficiaries' monthly repayments, and to the cost of beneficiary loans
to HB are also highlighted (para. 7.05).
Some aspects of this project, particularly those concerned with
beneficiary relations, would be valuable examples for other Bank shelter
projects in the region.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1893-JO)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Urban Development Project (Luan 1893-JO) was the Bank's
first shelter-related project in Jordan. The loan was signed in
September 1980, and was closed in December 1987, after two extensions.
During project execution, the Loan and Project agreements were amended
to reflect the cancellation of one component ($0.45 million), and the
transfer of the project implementation agency, the Urban Development
Department, from the Municipality of Amman to the Ministry of Municipal
and Rural Affairs and the Environment (MMRAE). The last disbursement is
expected to be made in June 1988, leaving a loan balance of about US$0.5
million to be cancelled.
1.02     The Urban Development Department (UDD) has prepared a Project
Completion Report (UDDCR), attached as Annex 7. As the primary project
implementation agency, the UDD has, at the suggestion of the Bank,
organized its report along the lines of a standard Bank PCR. The Housing
Bank (HB), the other agency involved in the project, has also written a
report (Annex 8), which, again at the suggestion of the Bank, focusses on
the aspects of the project for which the HB had primary responsibility.
The findings of both reports are incorporated into this Project
Completion Report. In view of these agencies' completion reports, the
availability of extensive data on project beneficiaries, and the
successful completion of the project, the Bank's review focusses on
topics of particular interest. This PCR therefore presents findings of
additional studies in two specific areas; namely the affordability of the
various shelter options offered under the project, and the amount of
construction activity carried out in the private sector as a result of
public investment in the project. This has been discussed and agreed
with OED. It also comments in some detail on particular aspects of this
project worthy of note; specifically on reporting, community development
programs, and health improvements in upgrading areas.
1.03     The Bank's review, in most instances, agrees with the findings
of the UDDCR particularly concerning implementation, project finances,
and institutional aspects. The areas already covered in the UDD report
are only addressed by the PCR where expansion or clarification is felt to
be beneficial, where there is a difference of opinion, or where the Bank
had access to additional information.



- 2 -
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.01     This section supplements the UDDCR (Annex 7) section on project
identification by emphasizing the constraints prevailing in the
low-income housing sector, as well as the deficiencies in infrastructure
and employment productivity that the project was to address. At the time
of project identification, Jordan's East Bank population of 2.2 million
was already highly urbanized. About two-thirds lived in urban areas,
with a high concentration in the Amman urban region, which accounted for
about 1.3 million people. High population growth rates, a result of both
high birth rates and in-migration, contributed to the shortages of
housing and infrastructure, which were particularly severe for the lower
income groups. It was estimated that about one quarter of the population
of the Amman urban region lived in areas of uncontrolled housing and
squatter settlements, under conditions of insecure tenure, overcrowding,
tF.d inadequate infrastructure and public services.
2.02     H.gh urban land prices, large minimum legal plot sizes,
restrictive planning and building regulations, and inadequate access to
established financial markets contributed to the inaccessibility of
adequate housing at affordable prices for low-income households. The
existing public sector housing program primarily benefitted middle-income
groups, particularly government employees, who were provided subsidized
housing by the National Housing Corporation. Government policy towards
squatter areas tended towards slum removal and relocation of residents.
2.03     Infrastructure services were particularly substandard in the
squatter areas. Water consumption in these areas was only about 10-15
liters per capita per day (lpcd), compared to about 28 lpcd nationally.
Water had to be purchased from private vendors, and supply was
infrequent. Roads and footpaths, street lighting, and garbage collection
services were also inadequate. School attendance was good in the urban
areas, but schools were overcrowded, and usually sited in unsuitable
rental premises. Even though health services coverage was increasing,
studies carried out in the squatter areas during project preparation
indicated that health conditions could be improved by increasing the
quantity of safe water available, improving excreta disposal, reducing
room occupancy rates, and extending public health education.
2.04     Although official unemployment rates were low, there were
indications of underemployment and low productivity, particularly amongst
the unskilled workers living in the squatter areas. The low level of
female participation in the labor force contributed to the problem of low
household incomes.
III. PROJECT PREPARATION, APPRAISAL, AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.       Preparation and Appraisal
3.01     The UDDCR describes project preparation, appraisal, negotiation,
and approval; this section supplements the UDD account by adding detail
regarding the evolution of Government policy, and dialogue with the Bank



- 3 -
duviitig Lthese project stages. Government policy in the urban sector
evolved steadily in the 1970s in response to a growing concern with the
problems of urban poverty. An important early step in the formulation of
urban policy was the establishment of the Amman Urban Region Planning
Group (AURPG) in 1976, with the assistance of the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID). The AURPG had responsibility for
developing an overall development plaa for the Amman Region. In April
1977, the Government of Jordan (GOJ) expressed an interest in programs to
ameliorate the housing situation of the urban poor. The Bank responded
by sending a mission to Jordan to assist the municipal services of Amman
in identifying urban development options and to advise on the preparation
of renewal and upgrading programs. In December 1977, the Government
agreed to the Bank recommendation that detailed components of a first
urban development project be identified and prepared by consultants, in
order to be corsidered for Bank financing. A pre-identification mission
visited Jordan in February 1978 to discuss terms of reference for project
preparation.  By this time, there had been a definite change in
Government attitudes away from slum clearance towards upgrading as an
alternative, and a willingness to consider lower cost alternatives to new
housing rather than subsidizing higher cost housing.  Consultants,
financed by GOJ, were selected a year later to assist Amman municipality
in preparing the project.  A Bank preparation mission reviewed the
consultants' interim findings with the Government in May 1979 and ensured
consistency with the findings of the AURPG, which were being disseminated
during 1979 in a series of seminars on planning issues, including housing.
3.02     This preparation study for the First Urban Development Project
(UDPl), dealt specifically with the development of low-cost replicable
solutions for the provision of infrastructure and shelter services. The
project was appraised in October 1979 and a post-appraisal mission
visited Jordan in April 1980 to finalize arrangements with the
Municipality of Amman as the implementing agency. Negotiations were
completed in Amman in June 1980; and the project was presented to the
Board in July.
B.       Objectives and Description
3.03     The primary objective of the project was to provide shelter and
related infrastructure and community facilities to the lower income
groups in the Amman area at affordable prices, with minimum subsidy to
ensure replicability (UDDCR Section 2.3). In order to achieve this
primary objective, the project included a Sites and Services component
(schemes on 3 sites, US$36.5 million), and an Upgrading component
(schemes in four low-income squatter settlements, US$10.0 million).
These two major components accounted for 81 percent of project costs.
The shelter and infrastructure objectives of the project have been fully
met (section IV).
3.04     A second objective was to achieve improvements in productivity
through the provision of loans to small-scale enterprises, vocational and
commercial training, and training facilities. The Small Business
Assistance and Manpower Training component (US$5.3 million; 92 of project
costs)



-4-
included the provision of shop and workshop plots, some with core units;
loans and technical assistance to small businesses; vocational training;
and women's training centers. The project was to assist in the
development of a longer term strategy for dealing with the problems of
inadequate housing and services, and to prepare a future project as part
of this strategy. The Project Management, Design, Supervision and
Studies component included the provision of equipment, and of consultant
and advisory services to assist the project agency in project design and
supervision, and to carry out studies. The achievement of these
objectives is discussed in section IV D, E, and F.
C.       Implementation
3.05     The project suffered several delays in its initial stages, of up
to a year (UDDCR, sections 3.1 and 3.2), including extensions in loan
effectiveness, a delay for retendering of bids, and a major delay for
revision of standards. In spite of these initial delays, once the
physical components were under way, only minor delays were encountered.
Actual physical works implementation period was similar to the appraisal
estimate with the exception for the Wadi Haddadah and Nuzha upgrading
sites
3.06     During implementation, the Bank agreed to some additional civil
works, which included the construction of a headquarters building for the
UDD on the Marka site, ar.d some minor additional community facilities,
such as kindergartens, and extensions to community buildings.
D.       Performance of Agencies Involved
3.07     The PCR agrees with the general findings of the UDDCR on
performance of consultants, contractors, suppliers, the borrower and the
Bank. The performance of all these concerned parties has been good. The
Bank's regular supervision missions in the early years of project
implementation dealt promptly with problems, and helped to maintain the
good working relationship it enjoyed with both HB and UDD. As pointed
out in Annex 5 of this report, more thorough knowledge of the
Government's concerns on lower standards could have prevented initial
delays.
IV. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.       Provision of Affordable Housing
4.01     The PCR agrees with the UDDCR's finding that the project has
been successful in achieving its primary objective of providing shelter
and related infrastructure and community facilities to the lower income
1/ The Loan Agreement (schedule 2 part B) refers to four upgrading
areas; one of these areas includes two separate sites (Wadi Haddadah and
Nuzha). Both of these sites were affected in 1983 by the Municipality's
plans for a highway which would pass through the area. Nuzha was
eventually upgraded in 1986, and the Wadi Haddadah upgrading is the only
project componer.t that was not implemented.



5-
groups at affordable prices with a minimum of subsidies to ensure
replicability. At project closing, all sites and services and upgrading
schemes, with the exception of Wadi Haddadah, were well-established.
Most plots had resident beneficiary families, children were attending the
schools built under the project, and the shops and community facilities
,,ere functioning smoothly. The subsidy and affordability aspects of the
project are particularly important; a review of the subsidy aspect
follows, and affordability is discussed in more detail in Section VI.
B.       Subsidies
4.02     The project produced a small overall surplus, currently
est,mated at about JDl million.  This indicates that, apart from the
Government's contribution to costs associated with community facilities
and off-site infrastructure, there has been no government subsidy for
housing. Plot charges for units produced under the project included the
costs of land, site preparation, on-site infrastructure, on-plot
develo-pent, design, supervision, interest during construction and
project management. The corresponding costs relating to schools and
other community facilities were not included in beneficiary charges.
4.03     The financial viability of the UDP1 project depended on
realizing adequate surpluses from the sale of commercial plots and some
residential (type A) plots at market prices to cross-subsidize the low
income beneficiaries' plots. Plot prices were differentiated to take
into account plot accessibility, road frontage, and commercial
potential. The plots to be sold at market prices were originally to be
sold for cash; however, in response to a lower initial demand than
anticipated, marketing policy was revised during implementation to allow
for up to 75% of the purchase price of such plots to be financed with HB
loans. This marketing strategy contributed to the success of UDD's cost
recovery, and also provided some of the surplus from the project.
4.04     The long-term aspects of cost-recovery are not dealt with in the
UDDCR, and are therefore mentioned here. The pricing of plots, and the
signatures of beneficiaries on mortgage loans are only one aspect of the
cost recovery performance. The long-term replicability of low-income
housing projects depends, in part, on the management of beneficiary,
repayments. Therefore, it is recommended that the HB invoke its remedies
whenever necessary. Most of the UDPI new plots are being financed by HB
loans. The proportion is about 70% if upgrading plots are also
included. About 20% of total beneficiaries, including one fourth of the
upgrading beneficiaries, paid cash fur their plots, and the remainder are
making monthly payments directly to UDD. This last category consists of
about 280 househlods on upgrading sites who declined to take a bank loan,
usually on religious grounds.-I  HB terms for mortgage loans under UDP1
are for 15 years at an interest rate of 8.5 percent.
1/ The decision to allow this form of repayment was made to avoid a
serious negative impact on the cost recovery performance of the upgrading
components. It is not an optimal solution in the long term, however; the
HB should be the sole provider of housing finance.



-6-
4.05     The HB's experience with cost recovery had been good for both
new sites and upgrading sites. The situation appears to have
deteriorated recently, however, particularly with regard to the upgrading
areas. In the upgrading sites, only East Wahdat has a sizeable number of
HB borrowers. HB reports indicate that at the end o-f January 1988, 49
beneficiaries out of 400 (about 12X) had payments that are 3 months or
more overdue, and nearly 6Z are six months or more overdue. These
figures compare with corresponding figures of 7% and 4% respectively for
end-August 1987 (UDDCR's Annex VII on P. 113 of this report). This
situation needs to be carefully monitored, particularly in the face of
worsening economic conditions, which could make it even more difficult
for beneficiaries to repay their loans.
C.       Community Facilities
4.06     All the community facilities envisaged at appraisal were
constructed and functioning before loan closing. As the community
development programs progressed, the need for additional small community
centers became apparent. A small kindergarten at one of the upgrading
sites, and a maternal and childhood center at another were added to the
project. Furthermore, community centers were found to be too small for
carrying out all the proposed programs, and extensions were proposed.
Because of the excellent progress being made in organizing cmmunity
programs, the Bank readily agreed to these minor additions.
D.       Employment
4.07     The project was seen by the Government and the Bank as the
beginning of a longer term program to provide for shelter and
employment-related needs of the poorer urban dwellers. The shop,
workshop, and coreshop plots were successfully built and marketed-' and
are providing a range of retail and repair services on project sites,
income for the owners of the plots, and employment. The small business
loans sub-component was deleted from the project due to lack of demand
for the loans. The deletion had no effect on project performance, since
demand for commercial plots was satisfactory, and no major delays were
encountered in the establishment of the various retail and other
activities on the sites. Contributory factors to the lack of demand
probably included (i) a lack of need for loans, shopkeepers having
sufficient capital or other sources of finance, and (ii) potential
borrowers, i.e., those without other sources, may have been unwilling to
take on loans in addition to those needed or already contracted for plots
and shops. Whatever the reason, loans and some technical assistance
1/ In one site, the East Wahdat upgrading site, the Municipality bought
a large proportion of the shops. Although the financial flows and
marketing performance of the project were not affected by this purchase,
the transaction was not beneficial because of the subsequent delay on the
part of the Municipality in renting out the facilities. The shops
remained closed during this time, precluding the benefits of additional
income/employment and access to shops/services in the area.



- 7 -
remain available to interested small businesses, including those on the
UDPl project sites, under the regular programs of the Industrial
Development Bank (IDB).
4.08     Women's participation in the labor force is traditionally low,
and a special emphasis was placed on women's training in project design.
It was determined from studies carried out at project identification and
preparation that women's classes would ne^d to be offered very close to
their homes. Women's training centers were therefore provided on all
sites. Men's courses have been offered at the Quweismeh site, and
women's courses on all sites. Although the employment effects of the
project's training programs have not yet been evaluated, it appears that
they have been very successful. A study of women's employment and
productivity will be carried out under the Second Urban Development
Project (UDP2). This study will examine the constraints to increased
female employment by looking at attitudes, work opportunities, and
training and other employment-related needs of women in UDP project sites.
E.       Policy Studies
4.09     This section reviews experience with policy studies under the
project, a topic which was not covered in detail in the UDDCR.  The
project was to aid in regularizing land tenure arrangements in areas of
uncontrolled housing through studies of planning and building
regulations. The Government, with the assistance of consultants, would
implement improvements in planning and building regulations and land
tenure arrangements in the Amman Region, and would develop an overall
housing strategy for Jordan. A Planning and Building Regulations Study
was prepared by UDD, assisted by its consultants, in February 1985 and
was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. Subsequently, the
Municipality of Greater Anman, incorporating smaller surrounding towns as
well as the city of Amman, was formed. The newly formed Municipality,
assisted by consultants, carried out a study financed by the Ministry of
Planning which aimed at the formulation of Greater Amman Comprehensive
Developoment Plan. This plan incorporates the finding of the previous
plar.ning and building regulations study, as well as the work done earlier
by AURPG.
4.10     The Housing Strategy Study:  Draft terms of reference for the
study were sent to the Bank by NPC in April 1982. The revised terms of
reference were sent to the Prime Minister's office in January, 1983, but
no further action was taken for some time, due apparently to GOJ doubts
as to the need for such a study. The Covernment established a committee
in January 1984 to review the situation, and it was decided that the
study would not be financed under UDPl, but would be carried out
in-house, under the leadership of Jordanian staff, with appropriate
technical assistance advisors. USAID and the United Nations Centre for
Human Settlements (Habitat) agreed to finance the technical assistance.
A Shelter Unit was established at the Ministry of Planning (MOP) and
started its work in July 1985; the expatriate consultant staff arrived in
February, and the survey was carried out in the summer of 1986. Draft
reports (20 volumes)1' were prLduced during late 1986 and in 1987.
1/ A list of the volumes produced is included in Annex 1; most of the
documents are available in pro4ect files.



- 8 -
They are still being reviewed by the Steering Committee comprised of
representatives of all the concerned agencies, e.g. MOP, RB, UDD, the
Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB), the Municipality of Amman,
etc.
4.11     In spite of a five-year delay, the study has already been useful
in focussing Government attention on the principal issues facing the
housing sector in Jordan. The issues concerning high standards for both
building and zoning have been highlighted in the study, and adoption of
more appropriate standards in order to provide affordable housing on a
wider basis is being discussed. The Government is strongly committed to
increasing the supply of lower cost housing, as outlined in the current
Five-Year Plan. Moreover, the easing of constraints to low-cost housing
production will stimulate construction activity, which has very strong
linkages with other productive sectors in Jordan.
F.       Institutional Development
4.12     The Urban Development Department: The provision of consultart
and advisory services was to strengthen the institutional and
organizational framework of public agencies responsible for the
development of low-cost housing. TORs for the consulting firm providing
technical assistance to the UDD included the provision of training to
local staff. As pointed out in the UDDCR Section 3.8, most of the
training provided was on-the-job.   Staff turnover in certain technical
areas meant that some of the training was lost to the UDD.   This is
inevitable, but much of the knowledge imparted will remain within
Jordanian institutions. The consultants also assisted in the preparation
of manuals, covering most aspects of project design, implementation,
marketing, financial analysis, etc. These manuals are kept current by
UDD, which includes the revision of manuals as part of its work program.
4.13     As a result of training programs, experience, and increasing
responsibilities, the Urban Development Department has developed from a
small group within the Municipality of Amman, to a relatively large well
staffed Department within MMRAE. This has enabled it to enlarge its
mandate, and to carry out projects on a national basis under the National
Urban Development Project (Loan 2841-JO), the second follow-up to UDPl.
Under this new project, appraised in 1987, UDD's role is expanding to
include sub-project identification and preparation, as well as
implementation. It currently has approximately 190 staff organized into
six directorates, and is able to handle most technical design and
supzrvision tasks in-house. It has also developed substantial competence
in the social survey and comuounity development areas, and carries out
surveys to monitor beneficiaries' progress in construction, satisfaction
with plots, and opinions on community programs.
4.14     The Housing Bank:  As the main housing finance institution in
Jordan, HB was, at the time of project preparation, already providing
support for much of the housing being built, and had a relatively
long-standing involvement in the sector. RB's participation in the
project was essential, and consisted of financing about 43Z of project
costs, administration of all project finances, and provision of
beneficiary mortgage loans for over 70X of the total households in the
project. Its performance has been good. The Housing Bank's policies in



- 9 -
the area of low-cost housing have evolved significantly through its
participation in the project. Special conditions were granted to project
beneficiaries, including the financing of up to 95% of the cost of land
and building, whereas normally HB would finance only 75% of the cost of
the building only; land was not eligible for financing. HB staff now
have considerable expertise in the implementation of loans to low-income
beneficiaries. In 1986, the Low Cost Housing Department (LCHD) was
formed within HB, and given responsibility for loans under UDP1 and the
follow-up projects. It is now acquiring the additional staff needed for
HB's expanded role under the National Urban Development Project, which
includes appraisal of sub-projects prepared by UDD.
4.15     CooPeration between institutions:  Although there have been some
differences of opinion between UDD and the HB on matters relating
primarily to beneficiary loan procedures and follow-up, the two agencies
have learned a great deal from each other by working together on the
project. The relationship might perhaps have been improved through the
sharing of more information. Examples cited included the need for
increased mutual discussion of special studies carried out by either
agency, increased on-site participation of HB at meetings with
beneficiaries, and more frequent reporting (e.g. of UDD marketing to HB,
and of HB beneficiary repayments to UDD, etc.). The progress made in
these areas attests to their ability to solve these differences without
major disruption in project implementation.
V. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
5.01     The ex-ante economic rate of return for the upgrading and sites
and services components was estimated at 20% at the time of appraisal,
with the sites and services components yielding an estimated 20% and the
upgrading components yielding 19X. These were based on the quantifiable
benefits and costs. The estimated benefits for the sites and services
schemes were based on the imputed rental values for beneficiary housing,
and on market sale prices for the commercial and larger residential
plots. The estimated costs included those for land acquisition, site
development, site preparation, on-site infrastructure, administration,
design and supervision, on-plot development, community facilities, and
the share of off-site infrastructure allocable to the project site,
physical contingencies, and operation and maintenance.
5.02     The ex-post rate of return was estimated on the same basis as
the ex-ante return. The ex-post economic rate of return is 131 for the
total project, and 14% and 11% for the new sites and upgrading areas,
respectively (Annex 4). The lower ex-post rates of return primarily
reflect higher costs than expected, rather than lower rental values. A
substantial part of the increased cost was due to delays and redesign.
In addition, for sites and services schemes, land acquisition and site
preparation costs in particular were much higher than estimated at
app-aisal (UDDCR section 3.6). A major factor in the lower returns for
both new sites and upgrading was the underestimation of beneficiary
construction costs during appraisal. Construction costs were estimated
at JD 180 per room whereas current estimates are close to JD 1000. Since
the inflation rates assumed at appraisal were not very different from
those which actually occurred, beneficiary construction costs were
substantially underestimated.



- 10 -
5.03     The ex-post rates of return for the various individual sites
show, in spite of being lower than at appraisal, that the project was
economically justified. In only one site, Nuzha, was the return below
what would normally 'justify' the investment. In this case, this was due
to long delay caused to uncertainty regarding a proposed highway.
5.04     It should be pointed out that in shelter projects of this kind,
and in the case of upgradirg areas particularly, the rate of return
represents a conservative estimate, because of the necessary omission of
non-quantifiable benefits relating to improved health and quality of life.
VI. SPECIAL TOPICS
A.       Reporting
6.01     Progress Reports:   Reporting to the Bank by the UDD has been
very good, and the quality of the progress reports has improved steadily
over time. As the UDD staff gained experience in reporting, the Bank has
suggested changes to improve the quality of reports; and its comments
were well received, and reflected in subsequent reports. On the
occasions when the Bank failed to comment on the quarterly reports, the
UDD, justifiably, complained of lack of feedback. The quarterly reports
now cover progress of the three Bank-financed urban development project
(UDPs); the time anik eff3rt required on the part of the UDD is well
justified in view of the usefulness of the reports to the Bank, and to
the UDD.
6.02     Progress reports were to include information from HB on the
status of beneficiary repayments. Although discussed several t4mes
during supervision missions, HB has supplied the desired information only
intermittently. Nevertheless, the information provided has been useful
for assessing the financial performance of the UDPI mortgage loans
program. This information should, however, be provided regularly, in
order to monitor the status of LCHD's loan portfolio."
6.03     Other Reports:  Both UDD and HB provided completion reports on
UDP1 to the Bank, and the writing of these reports has been a valuable
experience for both agencies. The Completion Report prepared by the UDD
represents a thorough review of most aspects of the project. It has
allowed the Bank's review to concentrate on areas of specific interest.
The additional insight provided by the RB report was also helpful. There
is broad agreement on the achievement of the overall project objectives,
and on the gains attained by the cooperation between the two agencies.
Various aspects of UDPI activ:' es have been reported on in other
contexts; for example, the surveying, data processing and analysis
carried out by the UDD for the two health surveys (paras. 6.16 - 6.18)
has been documented in several reports. Good examples of the reporting
1/ The Housing Bank points out in its comments (item 7, Annex 9) that
there is no requirement in the agreements for HB to provide this
information to UDD. However, the World Bank notes that the information
is of interest to all parties concerned with low income housing, since it
aids in monitoring affordability of beneficiary households, and hence is
also useful in project design.



- Li -
new sites, also utilizing the data processing expertise of UDD staff.
Reports on these surveys, however, would benefit from being more
detailed, and more widely circulated.
B.       Community Development
6.04     PAD's approach was to initiate programs within the community,
and to set up systems that would eventually allow communities to maintain
ongoing programs themselves, or with the help of the various Government
agencies, and to initiate new programs as the need arises. The first
step in this procedure was to encourage weekly meetings within each
community (site), at which urgent needs were discussed, and community
leaders identified and invited to form committees. The committees
continued to meet regularly, and with the help of the UDD social workers,
identified needs and ways to address them.
6.05     The community centers built under the project were the focus of
several community programs. The main achievements of these programs
include:
(i) health education: vaccinations are provided and homes are
visited to educate mothers on hygiene, nutrition,
immunization, pre-natal and post-natal care, etc. The local
health educators also treat cases of diarrhea and distribute
oral rehydration solution;
(ii) activities for children: programs include handicrafts,
educational games, trips, storytelling, films, and music.
(iii) activities for youths: evening classes are held to help young
people complete their secondary education, and films are
shown and discussed, and exhibitions of books, handicrafts,
flower-arranging, etc., are held periodically; youths are
encouraged to participate in clean-up campaigns, and in
various local and national activities.
(iv) literacy classes: literacy classes have been held in all the
project sites (in 1987, 118 women participated), and
educational films and lectures encourage further
participation in other community activities.
(vi) lectures: on womens' legal rights, and on family planning,
etc., were presented voluntarily by local groups.
(vii) training: on-the-job training programs have been provided by
the Director of the Social Department of Jordan University
for the Community Center Staff, and public health training is
supervised by the Ministry of Health for the health workers.
(viii) libraries: small libraries have been established in each
community center; a voluntary association has opened a public
library in one upgrading site, and this could be replicated
soon on other sites.



- 12 -
(ix)  coops: lectures on cooperatives have been given, and two
projects have been started, one to provide snacks at the
training center and a girls' school, and the other to provide
school uni'orms for a kindergarten.
(x)  other training:  in addiLion to the literacy classes and the
training of health and social workers, vocational training
centers for women have been established on all sites. The
main objective is to provide women with skills that will
assist them in finding suitable work and increase LI-eir
household incomes. Initially, the women have expressed
interest in traditional activities, and the centers have
offered (machine) sewing and knitting classes, as well as
typing classes. These classes, as well as the men's training
courses, are rur, by the Vocational Training Corporation
(VTC). The support of the VTC has been instrumental; and the
indications are that it would be flexible enough to design
specific courses for the beneficiaries if, for example, the
study to be carried out under UDP2 indicates a potential
demand for different skills.
6.06     There is a certain amount of complementarity between the
community centers and the training centers; the community centers
encourage education and training, and the knowledge and confidence gained
through education and training has aided the beneficiaries in learning to
run the community programs themselves. Arrangements were made for the
Ministry of Social Affairs to help with salaries of social workers, and
with UNICEF for health workers, both kinds of workers coming from project
beneficiary families.
6.07     The participation of PAD in community development has been
facilitated by its role in project implementation. PAD personnel have
been involved with the beneficiary households almost continuously,
carrying out registration surveys, participating in the health surveys on
the upgrading sites, and assisting households in filling out application
forms for mortgage and building loans, etc. The Directorate's continued
involvement in helping beneficiary households solve their problems hias
probably been a major factor in attracting assistance from local and
international organizations for various aspects of community development.
Because of the success of the community programs under UDPl, the same
approach is being followed in subsequent UDD projects.
C.          Incomes and Affordability
New Sites
6.08     The most important objective of the project was the provision of
affordable housing to low-income households. The sites and services
component was originally designed for households in the lower one-third
of the household income distribution. By contrast, the target population
in the upgrading areas was of course the existing squatter households.
Changes in standards expanded the range to households with incomes



- 13 -
between the 10th and 40th percentiles of the distribution. The UDD has
conducted two surveys of beneficiary households, which have allowed an
investigation of the affordability of the plot options offered at the new
sites. Detailed findings resulting from this investigation are included
as Annex 2, and only the conclusions are given here. Most of the
information in the remainder of this section is from the report on
affordability, for which the principal source of data was the second
Monitoring Survey, carried out by the UDD in the three sites and service
schemes in the spring of 1987.
6.09     On new sites, a 'matching' of incomes to plot options was
carried out, as envisaged at appraisal, and applicants were allocated a
plot from the three principal types (B: two built rooms and a small
kitchen and bathroom; C: one room plus kitchen and bath; and D: serviced
plot only) according to their ability to pay. This was determined on the
basis of monthly household income, which had to be no more than the 40th
percent of the distribution for Amman, and the estimated monthly mortgage
payment for a loan covering 952 of the sale price.   The cheaper vacant
plots were reserved for those at the bottom end of the target range,
while the expensive B-type plots were sold to those in the upper part of
the range. The profits from the larger A-type plots sold on the 'open
market' were used to cross;-subsidize those in B,C, or D plots.
6.10     Results of the survey showed that there was a regular decline in
mean income from the B-plots to the D-plots, but that matching between
plot prices and household incomes was not very precise. There was no
constraint on income for A-plot applicants, and it was expected that
applicants would come from higher income levels than the target range.
In fact, however, average incomes of the A-plot and B-plot residents were
not significantly different.
6.11     Although by the time of the monitoring survey about 25 percent
of the purchasers of beneficiary plots appeared to have a monthly
household incc'e in excess of the established upper limit, there were
several possibie reasons for this, including increases in income after
plot allocation, for example, from additional householder members taking
on work. Increases of this kind are desirable, indicating that moving to
their own property has stimulated economic activity among beneficiaries
in order to pay for construction or improvements. This effect of the
project in generating higher income levels among households is an
encouraging development. Such increases in no way lessen the importance
of allocating UDD beneficiary plots only to low-income households.
Detailed investigation of apparent income increases should be carried out
as part of the next monitoring survey.
Upgrading Sites
6.12     The affordability record is also good for upgrading sites.  Plot
prices were generally lower than on the sites and services schemes.
Although land prices were higher, plots were usually smaller, and there
was normally no built provision apart from the sanitary cores.-I  Sixty
percent of plots cost less than JD 300, a range equivalent to the
1/ Sanitary cores were only built on the E. Wahdat site. They were
discontinued because the beneficiaries preferred to have the flexibility
of designing the placement of sanitary facilities within their houses.



- 14 -
D-plots, making the great majority of plots affordable to the
lower-income households. The UDD carried out a follow-up study of
households which had very low recorded incomes in 1981. By 1985, incomes
had improved substantially (adjusting for inflation) for many of the
households. These changes were clearly connected with the entry or
re-entry of household members in to the labour market. Out of the
original very low income households in 1981, 68% had been accommodated on
tUDD plots.
Financing Construction
6.13     There is some indication that, within the extended family
system, major inflows of capital may be provided in return for housing
for family members. Although the standard house plans for UDP1 were
drawn up on the assumption that the housing on the sites would be
developed into two-story homes for single families, there may be a
substantial number of separate apartments built on the setnd floors of
the houses. The second apartment could be used to finance constructijn
costs, either through rent that could be used to pay off a construction
loan, or directly by advance payments from the intended occupant of the
second appartment. The three-room norm is fairly common in Jordan with
the rooms being multi-purpose living and sleeping areas. Parents tend to
sleep in one room, male children in another, and female children in a
third. It may well be that in UDD project sites, as beneficiary families
achieve this norm (and many are doing so for the first time), the house
extension possibilities, together with family financing, will be used by
some beneficiaries to build an extra apartment. Such a system would
allow beneficiaries to maintain close family ties through interconnected
living and financial arrangements. Since it also increases either their
rental income, or their ability to finance construction, and does not
preclude the eventual use of the building for single family occupation,
it should not be discouraged. It would be of interest to see to what
extend this system is being applied in the next monitoring survey.
D.       Private Construction Activity
6.14     The project has generated a considerable amount of construction
activity in the private sector. A survey of this activity was carried
out in January 1988, for which the rationale and methodology are
described in Annex 3. Based on the results of the survey, it is
estimzted that, for residential construction, the private sector
investment on the project's new sites is about two and a half times the
initial "-public sector investment. This estimate is based on the sum
of the (revised) contract values of the three new sites (JD 6.6 million)
compared with an estimated sum of JD 16.6 million in construction costs
to beneficiaries at the same sites (based average of JD 5,571 per
addition on B and C type plots, and JD 6,833 for a new house on A and D
plots).   If anything, the ratio is an underestimate, since the public
sector contracts include some off-site infrastructure costs.
1/ Public sector investment is described as 'initial' beca'se these
costs are recovered t.fom the beneficiaries.



- 15 -
6.15     It should be pointed out that over half of the public sector
cost (about JD 3.5 million) is for on-plot development, a large
proportion of which is for the construction of the one- and two-room core
units on B and C plots. If only vacant plots were offered to
beneficiaries, the private/public sector ratio would increase to about
6:1.  The desirability of increasing the proportion of vacant plots is
discussed further in para. 7.13.
6.16     The amount of employment provided in the private sector on the
UDD sites, i.e. through beneficiary-contracted construction, excluding
employment through Bank-financed civil works contracts, is estimated to
be just over 2000 man-years. To put this figure in some perspective,
unemployment was recorded at 40.2 thousand people in 1985. It is of
course not possible to describe this employment categorically as "jobs
created" by the project, since the without-project status of these
workers is not known. However, since unskilled workers are not scarce,
the indication is that a substantial proportion of the project-related
employment was incremental.
E.       Health Improvements on Upgrading Sites
6.17     The SAR for UDP1 does not cite potential improvements in health
as a benefit ac,ruing from the provision of improved infrastructure.
This is perhaps because it has been difficult to demonstrate such
improvements statistically. The difficulties may have arisen from faulty
experimental design, inadequate data, or the lack of complementary
interventions (e.g. changes in hygienic practices), etc.
6.18     The UDD, however, was interested in improving health conditions
on the upgrading sites, and collected information regarding the health
status of the populations in the five areas at the time of the initial
registration surveys (1981), in addition to the information usually
required in order to carry out such a project (plot sizes, household size
and composition, income, etc.). The upgrading sites were resurveyed in
1985, except for Wadi Haddadah which was not upgraded, at which time
similar information was collected. In addition to the information
available from the various questionnaires, some qualitative information
has been gathered using participant-observation techniques, in order to
contribute to an understanding of community organization and household
management behavior. A list of some of the documentation describing the
surveys and their analysis is included in Annex 1.
6.19     The most important findinS from the surveys was that infant
mortality (deaths within the firsc year of life) fell from around 68 per
thousand to around 55 per thou3and, with child mortality (deaths at ages
1 to 5) decreasing even more. These decreases were some five times
higher than would have been expected, based on current mortality trends.
A decrease in intestinal parasites was also detected among children and
infants in the health sample. A great many factors influence child
health and mortality; those investigated in the health surveys fell
primarily into two groups, i.e., the socioeconomic factors and those
affecting exposure to harmful elements .n the environment. Of the



- 16 -
socioeconomic factors, those identified as significant in the analysis of
the surveys were education of the mother and household income. These two
variables tend to be consistently and negatively related to infant and
child mortality; the Amman surveys were no exception. The exposure
variables found to be significant included the presence of electricity
(especially the presence of a refrigerator), the permanence of roof
material, and the presence of soap which was used as a measure of
personal hygiene. It was also found that the quantity of water available
had a significant effect: the higher the storage capacity (in the absence
of piped water), the lower the mortality.
6.20     Health care in the upgrading areas has also changed
significantly as a result of the project. Not only has the availability
of health services increased with the presence of local health workers
who were trained under the project, but households themselves have also
changed their health practices as a result of lectures through the
community programs, and advice obtained at the new health clinics-
For example, in the first health survey, soap was available for
handwashing near the toilet in only 17% of the households; at the
follow-up survey, the proportion had increased to 60%. The UDD approach
to health care of providing both technical inputs and social
inte!ventions has received favorable comments from other institutions,
e.g. the Ford Foundation which was particularly impressed by the overall
improvements in quality of life that have been achieved through the kind
of social mobilization program carried out by PAD (letter in project
files). The physical upgrading interventions, together with social
programs which havc produced changes in hygiene and health care
practices, have contributed in very large part to the dramatic decline in
mortality observed over the four year period.
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     Lessons Learned:  The UDDCR (section 9) identifies some of the
project's successes and failures, and highlights lessons learned. These
points, those raised by HB, and some additional findings resulting from
the Bank's review, are discussed in Annex 5, and only general conclusions
are given here.
7.02     Findings and Recommendations:  The project has been a remarkable
success. As noted in detail in section IV, it has achieved all its major
objectives, and has provided good quality, low-cost housing to thousands
of low-income urban families. Without the project, these families would
have had no alternative to overcrowded rental accomodations. The Bank's
approach was based on the premise that, when given legal rights to land,
households will be motivated to invest in their housing. The project,
therefore, aimed at making serviced land available at affordable prices,
and facilitated housing construction through loans and assistance with
building designs and permits. The correctness of this premise has been
demonstrated very strongly in both the upgrading sites and the new sites,
by the construction financed and supervised by the beneficiaries
themselves.



- 17 -
7.03     In addition, the project has succeeded beyond the stated
objectives in making significant improvements in the quality of life for
low-income families, through the provision of a wide range of community
facilities and activities. Through these programs, beneficiaries have
been able to voice their opinions, and they are learning how to identify
their own priorities, and take actions to achieve the desired results.
Improvements in health have been effected through improved physical
conditions and educational programs, which have changed hygienic and
child-care practices for residents of the uapgraded squatter settlements.
Although the employment and productivity effects of the community
activities and training programs have yet to be documented, marketable
skills have already been acquired.
7.04     An interesting phenomenon has been the project's demonstration
effect; UDP1 has been used as an example for a course in urban
management, and as a case history in an international seminar on planning
and urbanization. UDP1 experience, particularly in community
development, could also serve as an example of a successful approach for
other Bank-assisted housing programs in countries with a cultural setting
similar to Jordan's.
7.05     Recommendations regarding ongoing and future projects in Jordan
involve a continuation of the trend towards smaller plot sizes and less
on-plot development in order to ensure that affordability criteria
continue to be met. It is also recommended that the cost recovery
aspects of the project, including beneficiary repayments and the cost of
beneficiary loans to HB be carefully monitored during supervision of
follow-up projects (Annex 5).



- 18 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
Reference Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) Jordan: First Urban Development
Project, Report No. 2974-JO, June 23, 1980.
2. Project implementation files.
3. The Urban Development Department, Project Completion Peport, UDP1
Final Report, Nov. 1987.  (some tables updated in May,          1988).
4. The Housing Bank, The First Urban Development Project: Project
Completion Report. (received April, 1988).
5. The World Bank, The First Jordan Urban Development Project: Incomes
and Affordability, report by D. Jordan, consultant, March, 1988.
6.  The World Bank, Construction Activity in Urban Development Projects
in Jordan, draft report by E. Hooper, consultant, Feb. 1988.
7. Quarterly progress reports by the UDD.
8. Miscellaneous papers, e.g. "Community Participation: Urban
Development Project in Amman; A Case Study", July 1984, and "Working
with Low Income Women in Amman", September, 1987, both by H.
Al-Khairi (Director of Population Affairs Directorate,
UDD).
Health Survey Documentation
1. Bisharat, L. and Zagha, H. "Health and Population in Squatter Areas
in Amman: A Reassessment after Four Years of Upgrading", unpublished
draft, 1986.
2. Tekce, B., and Shorter, F. Socioeconomic Determinants of Child
Mortality and Intermediary Processes: Findings from a STudy of
Squatter Settlements in Amman, a Regional Paper of the Population
Council, prepared for the Workshop on Child Survival: Strategies for
Research, Bellagio, and also published in Population and Development
Review, vol. 10, Supplement, 1984.
3. UDD, User's Manual for the Registration and Health Surveys, by Tewfiq
Moubarak, for the Municipality of Amman, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan,
1981.
4. UDD, A Baseline Health and Population Assessment for the Upgrading
Areas of Amman, a report to the Municipality of Amman, by the
Population Council, 1982.
5. UDD, User's Manual: Amman Follow-Up Health and Population Assessment
for the Upgrading Areas, 1985.



- 19 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
6. UDD, First Report, Amman Follow-Up Health Assessment, Annex, File
Frequencies, 1985.
7. UDD, Final Report on the Anthropological Component of the Amman
Follow-up and Health Assessment, 1986.
8. UDD, Amman Follow-Up Health and Population Analysis, with S.
El-Atoum, 1987.
9. MENA Technical Department, Infrastructure Division (EMTIN), Second
Amman Population and Health Survey: Further Analysis, 1988.
Documents Produced by the Shelter Unit
under the Housing Strategy Study.
1.   Inception Report                                   Apr 1986
2.   Housing Needs and Associated Investment
in Jordan, 1985-2006                              Jun 1986
3.   Training Needs Assessment and Recommendations   Jul 1986
4.   Preliminary Findings and Conclusions               Nov 1986
5.   Revised Housing Needs and Associated
Investment in Jordan, 1985-2006                   Jan 1987
6.   Housing Vacancies in Jordan                        Jan 1987
7.   Existing Housing Situation in Jordan               Feb 1987
8.   Housirg Delivery Systems                           Feb 1987
9.   Private Housing Suppliers Survey                   Feb 1987
10.  Residential Land Analysis                          Feb 1987
11.  Construction Costs and Technologies                Feb 1987
12.  Rural Housing in Jordan                            Feb 1987
13.  Housing and Residential Land Affordability         Feb 1987
14.  Housing Finance in Jordan                          Feb 1987
15.  Housing and Residential Land Subsidies             Mar 1987



- 20 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
16. Impact of Housing Investment on the
Jordanian Economy                                 Mar 1987
17.  Institutional Issues in the Housing Sector        Mar 1987
18.  The Jordan National Housing Survey                Mar 1987
19. National Housing Strategy:
Residential Land Policies                         Mar 1987
20.  National Housing Strategy: Main Issues            Apr 1987



- 21 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
Incomes and Affordability
1.       The most important objective of the project was the provision of
affordable housing to low-income households. The sites and services
component was originally designed for households in the lower one-third
of the household income distribution. By contrast, the target population
in the upgrading areas was of course the existing squatter households.
Changes in standards expanded the range to households with incomes
between the 10th and 40th percentiles of the distribution.  Most of the
information in the remainder of this section is from the report on
affordability, (reference 5, Annex 1) for which the principal source of
data was the second Monitoring Survey, carried out by the UDD in the
three sites and service schemes in the spring of 1987.
2.       It was originally thought that Ruseifa, being the site most
distant from Amman, would attract lower income households.  Table 1,
which includes beneficiary plots only, shows that this has not, in fact,
been the case.   Mean income was highest in Marka, which also had the
highest proportion of beneficiaries with household incomes above the
target range.
Table 1:  INCOME DISTRIBUTION BY SITE, BENEFICIARY PLOTS ONLY
Marka       Quweismeh        Ruseifeh       Total
Up to JD95/month         11.1           10.0             7.2           9.5
JD95 - JD140             27.2           34.0           36.0           32.2
JD141 - JD185            31.5           36.0           31.7           33.0
JD186 - JD230            14.8           10.7           12.2           12.6
Over JD230               15.4            9.3           12.9           12.6
Mean Income              JD166          JD156         JD158          JD160
Total Number               162            150           139            451
3.       Applicants were allocated a plot from the three principal types
(B: two built rooms and a small kitchen and bathroom; C: one room plus
kitchen and bath; and D: serviced plot only) according to their ability
to pay. This was in turn based on monthly household income, but the
implied monthly mortgage payment for a loan covering 95% of the sale
price was also a consideration.   The cheaper vacant plots were reserved
for those at the bottom end of the target range, while the expensive
B-type plots were to be for those at the top end of the range.   A-type
plots, generally larger and unbuilt, were sold on the 'open market', to
people without any consideration of income. The profits from the plots
sold at market rates were to be used to cross-subsidize those in B,C, or



- 22 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
D plots (the term 'beneficiary plots' will be used to describe B,C, and D
plots, in order to distinguish them from 'inarket plots'). Table 2 shows
income distribution by plot type, according to the Monitoring Survey.
Table 2: INCOME DISTRIBUTION BY PLOT TYPE
total     benef.
A        B         C        D        plots    Plots
Up to JD 95/month   14.6       8.6       7.5      17.4       10.0      9.5
JD95 - JD140         22.0     24.8      38.8      40.6       31.3     32.3
JD141 - JD185        34.1     34.2      34.4      26.1       33.1     33.0
JD186 - JD230        12.2     14.9      10.0      11.6       12.6     12.6
over JD230           17.1     17.6       9.4       4.3       13.0     12.6
Mean Income         JD167    JD173    JD152      JD137      JD161    JD160
Total Number           41      222       160       69         492      451
4.       Although there was no constraint on income for A-plot
applicants, the table shows that average income of the A-plot and B-plot
residents was not significantly different.  There was a regular decline
in mean income from the B-plots to the D-plots, but a very precise
matching between plot prices and household incomes is not evident from
the table.  At the end of 1986, the UDD e;;timated household income at the
40th percentile to be JD183 per month, and a figure of JD185 was taken to
be the general maximum for most of the beneficiary selection period. By
the time of the monitoring survey, about 25 percent of the purchasers of
beneficiary plots appeared to have a monthly household income in excess
of the established upper limit. Several reasons for this have been put
forward, including:-
(i)   candidates from upgrading sites who qualif-ed for rehousing
because of overcrowding, plot amalgamation, or demolition of
their dwellings, were not subject to income limits and often
received priority over other applicants. Most of these
households were assigned plots at Marka, the first site to be
completed;
(ii)   some households experienced increases in their income after plot
allocation. There are several possibilities within this
category: (a) the incomes of self-employed or casual laborers
fluctuate widely, and some of them will have had higher incomes
in the Monitoring Survey year than in the year they made their
applications; (b) a large number of households whose head is in



- 23 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
Government service, and a fa:irly substantial increase in public
sector salaries occurred; and (c) more employment among members
of the household since the time of application, e.g. due to
children becoming old enough to work, or to some members taking
on extra work;
(iii)  household incomes at time of applications may have been
underreported to the extent that the income of women of
marriageable age was not included on the application form, since
it was considered to be a temporary addition to household
income. These incomes were included in the monitoring survey
assessment; and
(v)   in a few cases (a few B-plots at Marka), the limit was knowingly
exceeded because of a change in mortgage loan conditions reducing
the repayment period from 18 to 15 years. This increased the
required monthly payment, under the assumption that the down
payment would not be larger than the required 5 percentL'.
These plots had to be offered to candidates with incomes around
JD190 - JD195, i.e., above the target range. Moreover, a few
B-plots were more expensive when site conditions dictated a size
of more than the norm of 150 square meters.
5.      The rehousing of households from plots demolished because of
upgrading is necessary, and fluctuations in casual income are
unavoidable, so that no policy or procedural changes would be necessary
in cases (i) and (ii) (a) above. The change in the mortgage repayment
period cited in case (iv) was a once-and-for-all change. From the
affordability point of view, any future change should be towards
lengthening the period rather than reducing it2'.
6.      Bona fide increases in household income after plot allocation are
desirable, indicating that moving to their own property has stimulated
economic activity among beneficiaries in order to pay for construction or
improvements. This effect of the project in generating higher income
levels among households is an encouraging development, first identified
by the Monitoring survey. Such post-plot allocation increases in no way
lessen the importance of allocating UDD beneficiary plots only to
low-income households . Detailed investigation of apparent income
increases should be carried out as part of the next Monitoring Survey.
1/ A sizeable proportion of people in the bottom half of the target
range and below were able to nLake a down payment sufficient to qualify
for a B-type plot -- the down-payment turned out not to be as severe a
constraint as originally thought.
2/ The length of the mortgage period is also constrained to some extent
by the age of the beneficiary, for life insurance purposes.



- 24 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
7.      Case (ii) above, inconsistencies in reporting, should be
avoided. There may be some scope for relaxing the income eligibility
criteria in regard to secondary income earners. The data from the
National Housing Survey of 1986 show that household income is around
JD220 per month when heads are aged under 40, but for heads in their
forties (who would have some children in the workforce), household income
jumps considerably, to more than JD300. Although in the Jordanian
context, where families are large, a household could have several working
sons living at home at one stage (in the head's late forties, for
example). However, in practice, the build-up of working members is less
extensive than this because of the influence of military service or
further education, and increasingly, of unemployment. Additional earners
can appear and disappear at particular stages in a household's life
cycle. The UDD has already decided to ignore the earnings of female
children for these reasons. Under the UDD new sites eligibility
criteria, however, a household whose oldest son has just started work
would be disqualified, while another whose child is still waiting to
start work would be considered eligible. Such a change would need to be
studied further, and if eventually adopted, would require chat the
comparison of beneficiary incomes be based on the tistributior. of
household heads' income, rather than total household income.
Upgrading Sites
8.      To investigate the match between plot prices and household
incomes on upgrading sites, the UDD and the RB were asked to provide a
file of beneficiaries on the Wahdat site; the HB provided information on
the amount of plot purchase loan, amount of building loan, monthly
payment, and number of months by which the benficiary was in arrears, and
the UDD provided the corresponding plot purchase price, and total
household income of the beneficiary. The file included 370 cases, rather
less than three qu-.,ter of the plots on the site (the remaining cases
included 63 plots whose occupants had paid cash, and 69 ?lots whose
occupants were paying to the UDD rather than to the HB -'. The
distribution by total household income was as follows:-
1/ There were also a few welfare cases which have been identified and
documented, and for whom a separate policy will be determined.



- 25 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
Table 3: EAST WAHDAT: TOTAL HOUSEHOLD INCOME
Household Income                                 X
Up to JD95/month                                10.5
JD95 - JD140                                    37.6
JD141 - JD185                                   30.3
JD186 - JD230                                   12.2
Over JD230                                       9.5
Total                                          100.0
Total Number                                   370
9.      Plot prices were generally lower than on the sites and services
schemes. Although land prices were higher, plots were usually smaller,
and there was normally no built provision apart from the sanitary
cores.'' Sixty percent of plots cost less than JD300, a range
equivalent to the D-plots, which in contrast make up only about 24
percent of total plots in the new sites. Only 8 percent of the Wahdat
plots cost more than JD4000, compared with 49 percent of those in the
monitoring survey. There was some opportunity for matching of incomes
and plot prices since a proportion of the plots were sold vacant, and
there was some reshuffling of the occupied plots. The relationship
between plot prices and incomes is shown in Table 4.
Table 4: EAST WAHDAT: HOUSEHOLD INCOME BY PLOT PRICE
JDO -    JD2000    JD3000      Over      Total   Mean Plot
JD1999    JD2999    JD3999    JD4000                Price
% _       X          X        Z                   JD
Up to JD95         28.6      12.3        4.3       6.5       10.5     2494
JD95 - JD140      42.9       42.6       35.3       9.7       37.6     2717
JDl1l - JD185      21.4      25.1       38.8      38.7       30.3     3058
JD186 - JD230       7.1      10.8       13.8      19.4       12.2     3111
Over JD230          0.0       9.2        7.8      25.8        9.5     3742
TOTAL NUMBER       28       195        116        31        370
1/ Sanitary cores were only built on the E. Wahdat site. They were
discontinued because the beneficiaries preferred to have the flexibility
of designing the placement of sanitary facilities within their houses.



26 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
10.     The mean plot sale price increased steadily with increasing
income, while most of the plots costing JD4000 or more went to households
with incomes greater than JD140.  Nevertheless, a proportion of the lower
income households had plots which would be unaffordable on the standard
income test. Table 5 expresses monthly repayments as a percentage of
household income.
Table 5: EAST WARDAT: LOAN REPAYMENTS AS PROPORTION OF
TOTAL HOUSEHOLD INCOME
Up to    JD95 -    JD141 -   JD186 -   Over        Total
JD95     JD140      JD185     JD230      JD230
Up to 15X            0.0       3.7       15.2       48.9      70.6       18.6
15 < 25%            20.5      54.4       68.8      46.7       23.5       51.4
25 < 35%            46.2      37.5       15.2        2.2       2.9       24.0
35 < and over       33.3       4.4        0.9        2.2       2.9        6.0
TOTAL PERCENT      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
TOTAL NUMBER        39       136        112         45        34        366
11.      The table shows a widely recognized phenomenon, namely that
lower income households spend a higher proportion of their income on
housing. However, most beneficiaries spent less than a quarter of their
income on loan repayments. This is in accordance with appraisal
standards, and is within the normal ranges established by international
comparisons.
12.      Very low income households:  A UDD study in July 1986 followed
up 217 households whose incomes were recorded as being less than JD56 in
the 1981 registration surveys of the East Wahdat, Jofeh and Wadi Rimam
upgrading areas. In 1981, only 29 percent of the heads of these
households had a full-time job, and 40 percent had no income earner at
all. Forty-three percent of the heads were over 60 years old, and 35
percent of the households contained only one or two persons. By 1985,
information was available for 152 of these households. Incomes had
improved substantially, (adjusting for inflation), for many of the
households; 40 percent had left the 'very low income' group, represented
by JD56 in 1981, while more than a quarter had attained incomes exceeding
JD126. These changes were clearly connected with the entry or re-entry
of household members into the labour market. The number of households
with no income declined from 40 percent to 29 percent, while the number
with two or more income earners increased from 6 to 30 per cent.



- 27 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
13.      Out of the original 217 very low income households in the
upgrading areas in 1981. 203 were still households in 1985, 14 of them
having dissolved. Of these, 139 (68Z) had been accommodated on UDD
plots. Some of these households had been accomodated through mergers
(either of households or plots) on the upgraded sites, and some of them
had moved to UDD new sites. 25 (12%) had moved elsewhere, and the rest
were either ineligible for the program because of lack of Jordanian
citizenship, or were absent at the time of the 1985 survey.
Financing Construction
14.      Outlays for beneficiary construction associated with the new
sites is comparable to the cost of plots. At loan closing, the majority
of buildings on all three sites had two floors completed. A house with
two floors of about 83 square meter each would cost about JD13,000 to
build. Data from the monitoring survey showed that construction
expenditures were highest on A-type plots, next highest on the other
vacant plots (D-plots) and lowest on plots with core units. This was
confirmed by the findings of the January 1988 survey of construction
activity on UDD sites (Annex 1).  Figures are given in Table 6 from both
sources. It should be noted that figures in both cases represent
estimates made by the beneficiary during construction, based in some
cases on completed construction.
Table 6:  EXPENDITURE ON CONSTRUCTION BY PLOT TYPE
Plot Type:   A           B           C          D           Total
From Monitoring Survey
JDO - 2999               8.1        36.7        17.4        10.4         23.2
JD3000 - 5999           24.3        42.6        59.7        58.2         49.2
JD6000 - 8999           43.2        12.4        20.1        25.4         20.0
JD9000 and over         24.3         8.3         2.8         6.0          7.6
Total Number            37         169         144          67          419
From Jan '88 Survey a/
Ave. cost of constr.             7,567       4,882       5,700        6,500
a/  Based on an average of 14 plots in each category.



- 28 -
Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
15.      While these costs are not high relative to the size and quality
of tbe construction provided, they are high relative to the resources
available to families in these income groups. The main sources of
financing were as follows:-
Table 7: MAIN SOURCE OF FINANCING FOR CONSTRUCTION
Total Cost of Construction
Source               JDO       JD3000      JD6000    JD9000    Total
-2999      -5999       -8999     & over
Housing bank loan         27.8         16.0         4.8        6.3      15.8
Loan, other official       2.1          8.3         6.0       12.5       6.7
Unofficial loan         44.3        48.5         42.9       31.3      45.1
Personal savings           9.3         15.5        28.63       4.4      18.1
Sale of jewellry
and other goods          11.3          7.8        10.7        6.3       9.1
Remittances from
relatives                4.1          1.5         1.2        3.1       2.1
Other                      1.0          2.5         3.6        6.2       3.1
Total Number              97          206          84         32       419
16.      The prominence of unofficial loans and personal savings has been
a feature of other surveys in Jordan, notably the UDD D-zone survey.
and the National Housing Survey 2 . They raise questions about the
ability of tamilies to meet the commitments of unofficial loans when
their loan paying capacity has presumably been used to the full with the
plot purchase loan, and about the low importance ascribed to remittances,
in comparison to general estimates of capital inflows from Jordanian
expatriates, much of which is thought to be directed into housing.
1/ Areas zoned "D" contain 300 square meter plots, which is the smallest
size allowed outside of UDD schemes, where nearly all the buildings are
divided into separate apartments, with the owner usually living on the
premises, and one or more of the other apartments occupied by members of
his family; D-zones are considered the most plausible alternative to UDP
schemes (see Annex 11 of the SAR for UDP2)
2/ Carried out in the summer of 1986 as part of the Housing Strategy
Study (Annex 3).



- 29 -
Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
17.      A plausible explanation is that, within the extended family
system, major inflows of capital may be provided in return for housing
for family members. Although the standard house plans for UDP1 were
drawn up on the assumption that the housing on the sites would be
developed into two-story homes for single families there may be a
substantial number of separate apartments built on the second floors of
the housEs. The second apartment could be used to finance construction
costs, either through rent that could be used to pay off a construction
loan, or directly by advance payments from the intended occupant of the
second appartment. Such arrangements allow households to subsidize their
construction costs and/or increase their income; and do not preclude the
eventual use of the building for single family occupation.
18.      Some support for this hypothesis comes from the finding that in
D-zones, almost all the plots contained small apartment buildings,
usually containing two apartments per floor. While a few households,
usually the owner's, were found to occupy complete floors, it was almost
unknown for a household to occupy more than one floor. Similarly, in
newly developed buildings in the East Wahdat upgrading area, few of the
beneficiary households occupied more than three rooms, and, where their
buildings were larger than three rooms, the surplus space was usually
rented to second households. Many of the others had intentions of
developing second apartments, as evidenced in the design of the
stairwells. The three-room norm is fairly common (1979 population and
housing survey), with the rooms being multi-purpose living and sleeping
areas and parents sleeping in one room, male children in another, and
female children in a third.
19.      It may well be that in UJDD project sites, as benefic.ary
families achieve this norm (and many are doing so for the first time),
the house extension possibilities together with family financing, will be
used by some beneficiaries to build an extra apartment. Such a system
would allow beneficiaries to maintain close family ties through
interconnected living and financial arrangements, while increasing either
their rental income, or their ability to finance construction.



- 30 -
Annex 3
page 1 of 4
Private Construction Activity in UDPl Sites
Rationale for the Survey
1.       While the primary objective of the Bank's urban development projects
in Jordan is to serve unsatisfied demand for low-income housing, it is clear
that projects of this type have an effect on other areas of the economy.
Commercial activity and considerable construction activity are now evident on
the sites of the First Urban Development Project. Such activity in the
construction sector can generate new jobs and have effects within both the
backward-linked industries such as building materials and forward-linked
industries such as home finishing and furnishing.
2.       The importance of the construction industry in Jordan has been
highlighted in a recent Bank report entitled Policies and Prospects for Small
and Medium Scale Manufacturing Industries. Construction activity is the main
market for a large part of the SMI sector. An area of particular importance
to the Jordanian government is employment. Construction employment in general
is responsive to changes in other job opportunities, and serves as an entry
point to urban labor markets. It also tends to be characterised by low skill
requirements, though with the drawback of lack of job security.
3.       Three generalities concerning housing construction in particular form
the background to a study of employment in the construction sector carried out
in the course of a mission to Jordan (January 17-30 1988):
(i)    Housing ranks fairly high as an employment generator;
(ii)    Low-cost housing creates more employment,
ceteris, paribus, than high-cost housing; and
(iii)    Low-cost housing creates more employment for low
lo -skilled labor than high-cost housing.
4.       Objectives of the Study:  The experience of the First Urban
Project was used to investigate the magnitude of the project's
contribution to employment in the construction sector, and to identify
and understand the constraints to further development of small-scale
construction contracting in general.
5.       Methodology:  The study was carried cut by means of:-
(i) A review of relevant data already available within
the Urban Development Department;
(ii) A review of existing data generated by the National
Housing.



- 31 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
Strategy Survey prepared by the Shelter Unit of the
Ministry of Planning; and
(iii)   Generation of new data by the Urban Development Department under
supervision of the Bank mission, through a series of simple,
carefully-designed surveys of small-scale "casual" contractors
who had worked on project sites; construction workers; and
beneficiaries of the First Urban Development Project. In
addition, a small, in-depth survey of large contracting firms
and medium-scale contractors working on site outside the project
areas was carried out to provide insight into other aspects of
the sector and as a control. Similarly, the beneficiary
questionnaire was also implemented in a (non-project) low-income
housing area of comparable socio-economic background to project
sites. Each survey was implemented by means of separate
questionnaires for each category of respondents, as appropriate
to their different spheres of activity in the construction
sector.
Site Selection
6.       Three sites and services sites (Marka, Russeifa and Qweissmeh);
two upgrading areas (Wahdat and Umm al Rimam) were selected for the
surveys, together with one non-project site (Manara). The selection of
Manara was based on the criteria that it was of a comparable size to the
new development areas of the project; contains typical D-zone residential
development; and forms part of the lower-income sectors of Amman. The
total number of interviews implemented was influenced by the short period
of time available for data collection and processing. During the course
of a two-week mission, a total of 54 contractor interviews were carried
out (42 "casual" contractors from project sites, 5 non-project
middle-level contractors and 7 large contracting firms); 34 construction
worker interviews (23 working in sites and services locations, 7 in
upgrading areas and 4 from non-project sites); and 115 project
beneficiary interviews (56 from sites and services sites, 42 in upgrading
areas and 17 non-project low-income households from D-zone sites in
Manara.) This compares favorably with the Ministry of Planning (Shelter
Unit)'s survey of contractors and owner builders in Amman governorate,
which totalled 12 and 15 interviews respectively.
Sample Selection
7.       Contractors and Construction Workers:  A list of all plots on
which small-scale housing construction activity was still taking place
was obtained from Urban Development Department records, and a I in 5
sample was taken for casual contractors, and a 1 in 7 sample for
construction workers.  Large contractors and non-project contractors



- 32 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
contractors registered with the Ministry of Public Works were selected at
random from a MOPW published list of all contractors in the Amman area.
Selection of the latter was based on the small-scale firms classification
on the MOPW lists as able to undertake a similar type of housing
construction as that implemented by project contractors. Selection of
the large contractors included some firms which had constructed community
facilities under the project, some which had recently obtained contracts
under the Second Project, and others of similar standing. In addition, a
1 in 20 random sample was taken from the registration forms of
contractors registered with UDD (but not necessarily with MOPW) as a
further control on the representative nature of project contractors
sampled.
8.       Beneficiary Households:  Using the 1:1000 plans of each site as
a sampling frame, a systematic random sample was drawn. For the sites
and services areas, it was decided to skew the sample in favour of vacant
(A and D type) plots by discarding 501 of the B and C type plots
identified in the initial sampling process. The sampling interval was I
in 34 for the sites and service schemes and I in 18 for the upgrading
areas and the control area, Manara.
Findings
9.       Informal contractors:  Construction is implemented by small
(sub)contractors ("muallim") in 832 of 3lots in new sites, and 89% of
upgrading plots. In the remainder of cases, self-help or the help of
relatives or friends is used. When a contractor, usually found through
word of mouth, is employed, the owner typically supplies the materials
and often supervises the work, but does not usually participate in the
construction.
10.      These 'casual' contractors belong primarily to the informal
sector; few have any formalized legal status. Those working on new sites
tend to have a larger scale of operation, both financial and physical
than those working on upgrading sites. They tended to have from I to 3
"permanent" workers, obtained primarily through word of mouth, whereas
contractors in the upgrading areas had no permanent employees.
Contractors on the new sites also had higher levels of education and
training; 38% of those sampled had secondary education or higher, and 57%
had received some kind of formal training. On upgrading sites, the
proportions were 40% and 30%, respectively.



- 33 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
11.      Construction workers tend to be young and to have lii,ited
education, training, or experience. The average age from the survey was
around 27 years, 38% were illiterate, and only 23% had secondary level
education.  45Z had three years or less experience, and only 9% had any
formal skill training. Just over one-third reported being regularly
employed. The majority were non-Jordanian (65X). Temporary workers,
particularly unskilled laborers, were obtained on a daily basis mainly
from the souq''.   It appeared that workers moved freely between types
of work, e.g. from plastering to tile setting, electrician to concrete
worker, etc., with little consistent specialization. 74% of the workers
sampled had no previous employment; of those with previous experience,
47% had worked in construction. The construction workers' incomes were
low, with daily rates averaging about JD4; monthy incomes ranged from
JD120 to JD180 for 40 % of the respondents, and were under JDllO for a
further 44%, with only 16% recording incomes of over JD180.
12.      UDD employment is important to the casual contractors; one-third
had worked on more than 6 UDD plots. Work on UDP1 sites formed 1002 of
the workload for 79% of the new sites contractors, and constituted 50-80%
for a further 17X. Similarly, on upgrading sites, UDD work constituted
50-1007 of the workload for 90% of the contractors.  It should be borne
in mind that the contractors' very small scale of operation may allow
them to work on only one project at a time. The average number of plots
worked on per year was 3.8 for both upgrading and new sites. Those
working on UDD project sites had a larger number of employees now than
before undertaking project work, and none had experienced a decline in
the number of their skilled workers. Contractors on the new sites had an
average yearly turnover of nearly JD 6,000, while those on upgrading
sites averaged only JD 1,128. 78% of all the contractors had a larger
number of employees now than before undertaking project work, and none
had experienced a decline in the numbers of their skilled workers.
1/ Market -- the practice is for available workers to assemble in a
central downtown area and employers hire from this assembly.



- 34 -                                                Annex 4
Jordan First Urban Development Proiect                                                      Page I of 3
7ecalculated Economic Rates of Return
Jordan Fifst Jrban Deoeooeent Project: Ertnonoc Rate of Return
Year:      1980     195 1     1982     19B3      1914      1985     lq9b      1.7        i3a      !99       !       l       I32
A. Site and Services.
*.    Costs.
Land acquisition                              0     1149       666     1358        92         0        0         0         0        0                  0 
Civil works tU3)D                             0        5        21      440      1137      1294      613       231       121        0                  0         0
On-plot developunt (beneficiaries)            0        0         0        0       167       659     17t3      3043     3268      2163       5.4        0         0
Design and supervision                      34       115        3O       97        31        59       80        14         9        0         0        0
Project management                           0        98       124      110        65       200       77        53       122        0         0         0        0
Operation and saintenance                    0         0         0         1       12      . 44       93       151       234      31S       372      386       :36
Total costs                              34      1357      841      2006      1503     2254      2577      3513     *753      2482      906       :86       :9t
b.    8enefits.
Rental value of neb housing i9,C,oI           0        0         0         0 -    64        293      743      1387      1971     2347       U5      24:3      2433
Rental value of core shops                    0        0         0         0        0        is       84       119       125      125       125       125      125
Market value of A-plots                      0         0         0        0       102       996     1713      13s0       455      497         0         0         0
Market value of sbops,workshops,etc.         0         0         0        0        0        47      244       247       182       24         0         0         0
Market sales of comercial tracts.             0        0         0         0       0         0        0         0       9t0         0         0        0         0
Total benefits                            0         0         0        0       16      1345      2803      3083     3693      2992      2557      2557      2557
Net benefits                       -34    -1357      -841    -2006    -1331       -911       227     -430       -61       510      1651      2171     2171
ERR FOR SITES AND SER9ICES                   0. 137199
B. Upgradnig Sites
A.    Costs.
Land acquisition                              0     1368         0        0         0         0        8         0         0         0       0         0         0
Civil works lUDD)                             0        2         9       147      764        36         1       58         9         0        0        0         0
On-plot development /bmefictariest            0        0        47       170      614      1076     1117       897       524       117      80        45        19
D:ign   d supervision                        2         9         2        7        32        11       36         2         0        0        0         0         0
ProjKt eanageeent                            0         9        12        10       90        68       23         6        13         0       0         0         0
Operation and eantenance                     0         0         0        2        11        53       96       120       149       165     169       171       i72
Total costs                               2      1386       70       335      1511     1245      1302      1094      694       282      249      215       191
b.    Benefits.
lncr. rental value of existing roses         0         0         7       59        74        72       76        79        91       91       91        91       91
Rental value of additional rouss              0        0         0        10       96       263      464       628       729      756      770       777       -81
Rental val. of shops, etc.                    0        0         0         8       54        58       187       75       628        15       15       15        IS
lIrket value of serviced tracts               0        0         0         0       0         0         0        0       527       140        0        0         0
Total beqefits                            0         0        1o      195       340      667       761      1195      1614     1015      993       996      896
Net benefits                        -2    -1386       -53      -140    -1170      -579      -541       101      920       732    6t5        71       o95
ERR FOR UP6RADI1S SITES                        0.1138
C. Total Project
a.    Costs.
Land acquisition                             0      2517       666     1359        92         0        9         0         0        0        0         0        0
Civil works (uo8)                             0        7        30      597      1901      1330      645       290       129         0       0         0         0
On-plot development (beneficoarnes\          0         0        47      170       782      1735     2930      3960      3791     2291      61l        45        19
Design and supervision                      36       123        32      103        b3        71      it?        16         9        0        0         0        0
Project eanaqument                           0        96       134       120      155       269       100       60       135        0        0         0        0
Operation and maintenance                    0         0         0         2       23        97      179       272       383      493      541       557      55g
Total costs                              36      2743      911      2341      3014     3500      3879      4597      4448     2764    1154       601       577
b.    Benefits.
Froe sites and service                       O         0         0        0      166      W35    2803       3083      3693     2992    :557       2557     2557
Froe upgrading                                0        0        1      195       340       667      761      1165      1614     l015      983       sea      996
Total benefits                            0         0        18      195       506     2012      3564      4268     5307      4006    I440      :443      3443
Net benefits                       -:b    -2743      -893    -2146    -2509    -1498        -314      -329      960      1242    2288      2842      2867
ERR FOR TOTAL PROJECT                          0. 1301



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
Recalculated Economic Rates of Return
Sites and Services Areas
Jordan First urbDn t4wvloosent Project: Economic Rate of Return
year:      1980      1981      19B2     19B3      1914      I9S5      I9U       19S7      19SB      I Qs;    I:        l991      1992
I. ARMKA
a.    Costs.
Land acquisition                                       339       179       513
Civil uorks tUDO)                                        I         5       145       204      559        5t        13        17
On-plot development (bmniciarnis)                                                    167      370       853       8ll       363       154
Design and supervision                         8        27         7        23         7        13        19        9         1
Project unageat                                         26        37        32        15      5S          21       42        29
Operation and maintenance                                0         0         0         4        13       31        54        74        84        ea        89       8B
Total costs                                 9      393       229       713       397       914       976       929       484       238       88        as        so
b.    Benefits.
Rental value of nowl housing I8,C,D)                                                  64      t68       329       474       533       559      !59       559       559
Rental value of cornshops.                                                                      ;3        15       37        39        39        39        39        39
Market sales of A plots                                                              102       196      456       294         6
jarket sales of shops, uorkshops                                                                47       52        74        12
Market ules of comercial tracts.                                                                                            532
Total benefits                              0         0         0        0       166       414       852       878      1122       597      597       597       597
Met benefits                         -8      -393      -228      -713      -231      -400     -124       -50       636       359       509       509       509
Econosit Rate of Return for Marka          0.136
2. DWEISKEH
a.    Costs.
Land acquisition                                       684       361       719        92
Civil uorks (UDD)                                        2        10       156      575        625      391        5t        20
On-plot development (beneficiariesl                                                            146      534      1372       B8B4     1337       116
Design and supervision                        15        51        13        43        13       26        48         3
Project unagment                                        37        52        45        29        97       36         9        64
Operation and maintentince                               0         0         0         4        19       38        61        97       244       178       t80       180
Total costs                                15       74       436       963       714       913      1047      1495      2064      1481      293       180       180
b.    Benefits.
Rental value of neo  housing (8,C,D1                                                   0        68      275       594       944      1190      1212     1212      1212
Rental value of coreshops.                                                                                14       27        31        31        31       31        31
larket sales of A-plots                                                                         71      852       799       444       497
Market sales of shops, workshops.                                                                       155       143        95
iarket sales of conercial tracts.                                                                                           260
Total benefits                              0         0         0        0         0       139      1296      1563      1773      1718     1243      1243      1243
Net benefits                        -15      -774      -436      -963      -714      -774       249       68      -291       237       949      1062      1062
Economic Rate of Return for Guveismeh 0.1300
3. RUSEIFA
a.    Costs.
Land acquisition                                       126       126       126
Civil work. IUDD)                                        2         6       139       357      310       171       167        94
On-plot developwent (kenefitiariesl                                                           143       326       880      1021       672       428
Design and supervision                        11        37        10        31        11        19       13         3         8
Project eanagement                             0        25        35        35       21        44        20         3        29
Operation and maintenance                                0         0         0         4        23       24        36        63        90       10?       117      117
Total costs                                It       190      177       330       393       529       554      1089      1205       762      525       117       217
b.    Benefits.
Rental value of new housing (8,1.2'                                                    0       57       15S       319       495       500      662       662       662
Rental value of coreshops.                                                                       6       55        55        55                 55        55        55
market sales of A-plots                                                                       729       405       238         5
Marke: value of shops,vorkshops,etc.                                                                     37        30        74        24
Market sales of comercial tracts.                                                                                           269
Total benefits                              0         0         0        0         0       792       655       642       797       676     717       717       727
Net kenefits                        -11      -190      -177      -330      -393      263        102     -448      -408       -85      12       600       600
Economic Rate of Return for Rus%af     0.1566



-36-
Recalculated Economic Rates of r.eturn                                                        ?aze 3 af 3
Uptradins Areas
1. EAST fffH3T
a.    i.osts.
L.and acquinatano                                       622
Civil owks  D011I                                         2         6        14       521        36        29        48          5
On-plot develoept (beeeficLarln)                                   47        88        m3        679       t01       uS5       503        114        3        45        19
0eslln and suptrvision                          I         0          1        4         27         a        23
Project eaaaagrt                                          3         5          4        57        40        I4         2         2
Operation and maintenance                                 0         0          2         8        34        55        i3       III       126       :29       132        1 3
Total costs                                  1       631        59       231       946       196      1021       99i        S21       2S9                 1760      152
B t    enefits.
Ircr. rental va1ie of enstioq rowos                       0         3         4         2          1         1         1         1         1                  1          1
Rentli value of additional room                                              79        194       347       493       578       597       611       Il       621       621
Market valut of shops, wksh6os.                                              46        50        173        60       313
Market value of  erviced tracts                                                                                       66
Total Oenefits                               0         0        it       129       246       520       554       958        59f       Oil       6i9       622       622
fnt benefits                          -I      -621       -48      -102      -700      -276       -467       -40       -22       372       '10       446       470
Econo  c Rate of Return for E.  ahdat  0.1119
2. RI00A
a.    Costs.
Land acquisition                                        252
Civil Wrks  UD0)                                          0         2         7        032         0         0
On-plot deovlno nt (bmen4cirinesl                                             06        61      201        165        21         06         4
oDssgn ad suparsion                                       2         0          1         1         2         5         0
Project anagetnt                                          1         2         2         15        12         4         I          I
Optration  nd eaitent nce                                 0         0         0          1         7         S        19        lie        09       19        19        19
Total costs                                 0       255          4        26       201       221      16         40        3I         23       19         19        19
b.    Benefits.
Incr. rental .alu  of existing roon                                4        34        42        42         42        42        42        42        42        42        42
Rental value of additlanal riom                                               2         it        39        60        64        67        67        67        67        67
larcen Val. Ct bops, ooksuaope.                                                                                                S00
Market value of serviced tractS                                                                                                to0       140
Total bMeflts                                0         0         0        36        53        9t       104        14        589       250      110        010       100
fft beeffats                           0      -255        -O         10     -159       -It0       -'83       b        554       227        91        91        91
Econosic Ratt of Return foe Ria             0.1572
3. JOfEN
a.    Costs.
Land acquisition                                        239                                                  8
Civil murks IUDD0                                                    1         6       t10         0         0
On-plot developamt (beficfiaris)                                             37        10        123        14         6         5
Design and supervision                          1         2         0          1        5          2         5         0
Project sunageut                                          1         2          2        17        10         3         2         2
Operation and saintevance                                 0         0         0          1         9        12        03        IS         13      03         13        13
Total costs                                  1      242          4        47       281       144         03        21        20        13       13        02        I3
b.    Benef its.
Incr. rental value of enisting rones                                3        22        28        20         28        28        29        29       2i        28        29
Rental value of additional ronss                                              0          6        31        51        53        54        55       5S         55        55
Rental ial. os shoos.   et.                                                   a               9              8         a    9               0 9     8         8          a
Market value of  wrviced tractS                                                                                                :9l
Total benefits                                                   3        SO        42        66        97        fl9       37         90       ?I        '3        90
Ret befflts                           -I      -242        -1       -17      -239        -78         4        us       :51         77      77         77        77
Econosit Rate of Return for Jofoe           0.1211
4. RUlHR
a.    Costs.
Land ocqunsition                                        255
Civil norks fUDI                                0         0         0          0         0         0         3        it         4
On-plot developwent  beonefictviies                                          29         71        74        30         5
Design and supervision                          0         0         0          0         0         0         4         2         0
Project managent                                0         2         3          3         I         6         2         2         a
Operatio  and aaittoance                                  0         0          0         1         3         5         6         7          7        7         7         7
Total costs                                  0       257         3        32        73        83         52        26        19         7        7          7         7
t.    Benefits.
lncr. rental value of eisting roo.s                                                                          5         8        20        20        20        O0        20
Rental value of additional rooss                                                                             5        17         0         36       SI 37               37
Rental val. of shops, etc.                                                                                   7         7          7                  7         7         7
Market valua  of serviced tracts
'otal boenfts                                0         0         0         0                  0         17        32        57        63       of         64        64
Nut benefits                           0      -257        -3       -32       -73        -83       -35         6        l9         56       57        57        57
Econonic Rate of Return for Cnzha           0.0658



- 37 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
JORDAN: FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Recommendations based on UDP1 Performance
1.       This annex pulls together findings from the UDDCR, The Housing
Bank's report and the Bank's review, and draws concluxsions regarding both
project design and some issues of a longer-term nature.
Project Design
2.       Initial delays:  The UDDCR correctly points out that much of the
delay in the early stages was due to conceptual differences and
misunderstanding. It raises the question as to whether more time spent
by the Bank in Jordan prior to the introduction of the new concepts would
have reduced the delays. It is difficult to know whether, in this
particular case, there was more that could have done on the Bank's part,
given that there was initial agreement both within the Bank and with
those involved in project preparation in Jordan, and that the problem
only arose when clearance was needed at a very high level. However,
given the similar difficulties encountered in other first shelter
projects, the point is well taken. Experience shows that first
operations in the shelter sector require a couple of years of dialogue
before Government commitment to lower standards can be expected.
3.       Length of beneficiary processing time:  The time period between
initial application and completion of all procedures has caused delays in
handing over plots to beneficiaries. The UDDCR, in pointing this out,
attributes some of this delay to Housing Bark procedures. For its part,
the Housing Bank points out (Annex 9, item 8) that since it is bearing
the risk, its procedures have to be applied. It should also be pointed
out that some delays and complications are to be expected when thousands
of potential beneficiaries, averaging 3 for each plot advertised, are
involved. Plot applications including the allocation of an appropriate
plot according to income, and mortgage loans, were both being processed
under new procedures. Cooperation between HB and UDD has taken the form
of meetings, round table discussions, and some small studies carried out
in cooperation between the two agencies, which improved their mutual
understanding of operational constraints, and their sensitivity to the
problems of low-income households. Some of the modifications in HB
procedures resulting from this cooperation were (a) liaison with UDD for
field inspection of HB-financed construction, (b) waiver of an interim
inspection, and (c) cancellation of two of the forms that HB normally
required its borrowers to submit. While this has certainly been a step
in the right direction, further simplification may be possible, and
should be pursued by RB in the context of reducing the costs of its
low-cost housing program (para. 14).



- 38 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
4.       Project design: The UDDCR also points out that many of the
findings regarding project design have already been incorporated in later
stages of UDP1 or in UDP2. These include, inter alia, the need for
retaining walls, the lack of demand for sanitary core units, and the need
for emergency centers, playing fields, increased space in community
centers and more kindergarten facilities, This demonstrates the
flexibility which has characterized the UDD's approach, and contributed
to its success. As indicated earlier, the increased demand for such
facilities demonstrates the success of the community programs developed
under the project.
5.       Commitment of upgrading beneficiaries:  Some problems were
encountered in UDP1 upgrading sites in convincing residents to pay for
their newly serviced plots. Although this situation was largely
resolved, UDD efforts were substantial. The National Urban Development
Project addresses this situating by encouraging residents to make
deposits at HB, so that commitment to proposed upgrading scheme can be
gauged a priori.
6.       Beneficiary repayments:  Both UDD and HB show concern with the
beneficiary repayment record, particularly on upgrading sites. This is
another area in which there has been some effective cooperation between
the two agencies, and some special measures have been taken in the past,
with good results (including, for example lectures by community leaders
and the UDD director on the legal recourse possible if payments are not
made). UDPI experience has shown that, despite considerable success in
obtaining initial commitments from beneficiaries, this is an area
requiring continuous and consistent effort.
7.       Housing Bank costs:  The long-term objective is for the
beneficiary loans program to operate without any subsidy. However, at
present the HB indicates that it is sustaining a loss on its UDPI
operations present.
8.       Handover of responsibilities:  The UDD has been very heavily
involved in helping beneficiaries to design their initial construction
and extensions, and in processing their building permit applications.
Project experience has shown that, although this activity has undoubtedly
been an important factor in the project's success, it also represents a
substantial manpower contribution by the UDD, and tends to perpetuate its
involvement in project sites longer than necessary. More binding
agreements are necessary for municipalities to take over responsibility
for building license applications after initial permits have been issued
by the UDD.   The operation of community programs is another potential
area for prolonged UDD involvement. To some extent, this may be
unavoidable under UDP1, as the various alternatives for handing over
activities to Government agencies and to the communities themselves are
still being finalized. Effective solutions found under UDPI should be
applied to UDP2 sites in the future.



- 39 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
9.       Use of project schools:  Experience with schools indicates that,
given the lack of adequate school buildings in the Amman region,
agreements with the Ministry of Education regarding the operation of
schools should be strengthened in order to ensure that project schools
are not used to benefit children from non-project areas, to the possible
exclusion of beneficiary children.
Recommendations for Future Projects
10.      As pointed out under 'Lessons Learned', the project's
flexibility in the areas of housing and plot design, community
facilities, social programs, and beneficiary loans has allowed
improvements to be made during implementation. This flexibility of
design is also inherent in the follow-up projects. The current adverse
economic conditions make it important to focus even more on affordability
and marketing. Certain aspects of the project, which are longer-term in
nature, merit further attention in the follow-up projects:-
11.      Plot Standards:  As part of a de facto Government policy towards
low-cost housing, the UDD programs need to continue to be efficient. A
main constraint to provision of such housing on a wider scale has been
the high cost of land, coupled with regulations that do not allow
purchase of small plots. Along these lines, UDP2, the follow-up project,
provides a range of plot sizes, the smallest being 112.5 square meters,
compared with the standard size of 150 square meters under UDP1. While
this minimum is still not as small as the 100 square meter plots
originally pzoposed under the first project, this change constitutes a
shift towards more choice, and the provision of more housing at the lower
end of the target affordability group. It is to be hoped that the
'demonstration effect' of these projects, i.e., of the high demand for
low-cost housing on small plots, together with the recommendations of the
Shelter Unit in the Housing Strategy Study, will lead to actions being
taken, in addition to the UDD projects, to ease these constraints.
12.      On-Plot Development:  Notwithstanding the recommendation of the
UDDCR, the arguments for reducing on-plot development are strong. The
provision of a higher proportion of vacant plots reduces the public
sector's initial investment, which is an important consideration in times
of budget constraints. Other considerations are that plotr with core
units consume major amounts of the cross-subsidy from the sale of market
plots. Even so, they remain much more expensive than the vacant plots,
and therefore are allocated to beneficiary families at a higher income
level. In effect, larger subsidies are made available to higher income
families. The core units are not necessarily of better value than the
output of small contractors; and their design standards, being a
compromise with affordability, are widely criticised by the beneficiaries
for their low ceiling heights and small room sizes. They tend to be
rapidly dwarfed by the extensions which grow up around them, while
constraining their design. For these reasons, the Second Urban
Development Project includes a smaller proportion of plots with core
units.



- 40 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
13.      Provisional Shelter:  Some beneficiaries cannot afford to invest
in new housing while continuing to pay rent, and require some form of
immediate shelter. Alternatives to permanent core units, e.g. the use of
temporary building materials for the roofs and for those walls which will
ultimately be internal partitions, should be explored. This will reduce
the extent to which future extension options are eliminated as well as
reducing cost. The UDD, with its experience from UDPI, would be in an
excellent position to implement such a study, drawing, at the same time,
from any work done in this area by other local agencies.
14.      Beneficiary Loans:  Cooperation between HB and UDD should focus
on ensuring beneficiary commitment, particularly on upgrading sites, as
early as possible, and on streamlining both plot application and loan
procedures where feasible. Regular reporting on the delinquency status
of beneficiary repayments should be carried out, and follow-up actions
should be taken, both to improve the present situation, and to ensure
future compliance. It is recommended that high priority be given to UDP1
repayments in the supervision of the follow-up projects. The cost of UDP
beneficiary loans should be thoroughly investigated, in cooperation with
HB. This is particuxlarly important in view of the likelihood that the
beneficiaries' ability to make regular monthly payments will be adversely
affected by the economic situation in Jordan. The investigation should
include a detailed examination of direct and indirect costs, as well as
of any other costs attributed to UDP beneficiary loans by HB. Measures
to reduce costs should be initiated where necessary default risks should
be assessed, and remedial measures discussed.
4746U/pp. SO-53



- 41-                                Annex 6
EAST WAHDAT                            Page 1 of 11
Upgradingt Site
Before
~~~A. ~   ~        A-
~~~~~~Th ~~~~~~~~~~~~Construction in
:~~~~~~  _ .                                                m
.   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
__"' '________ _7
*   ,;F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
*~ ~ , _-                    _
I~~~~~~    ,,*
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~r...8fr



-42 -
Annex  6
Page  2 of 11
EAST WAH{DAT
Upgrading Site
Typical Recent Scenes
l   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I                                                     _                                                                                              j~I.
l _' ' l~~



- 43 -                                 Annex 6
COMMUNITY CENTER                             Page 3 of 11
Upgrading Site
IA~~~~~~~~
4           , I ..=     ;'            -     -,
L
i ~~~~.    '!'  
2 S5 g-    *                    -



-44-
Annex 6
NEW SITES                                 Page 4 of 11
UDD Construction
Construction of Extension
By Beneficiaries



-45 -                          Annex 6
NEW SITES                         Page 5 of 11
i *~ o;t             ;                                   rAjE 
veneficiary
kr  II _jonstruction in
*'rogress
---VW -
we --s-^9
Construction
L   * e    lAlmost Complete
'         _                       hA !   | ,Z1 11~~~~~~~~~~~V:



-46-                                   Annex 6
NEW S ITES                               Page 6 of 11
Typical Recent Scenes
JI             ~~~Footpaths
A-Plot



- 47-                      Annex 6
NEW SITES                    Page 7 of 11
Community Facilities
I L ~~~~   ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ..      ... -.   . 
;,~~~~          i;                  .Health Center
]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V ca -anai
.~~~~~                       Center_ 
_   _   ,    ____ . _. ___        _____
-~~ t    *.-r                         IACw*
C,~~~~~~~~~-1 ,  ~''   .s.,:   '



- 48 -                               Annex 6
NEW SITES                               Page 8 of 11
Comnunity Facilities
Schools
Community-Built
Mosque



- 49-                                Anrex 6
WOMEN'S VOCATIONAL TRAINING                       Page 9 of 11
i;6t
-                     -              -             Typing Class
~~~MrAL                                                                      Kaitting Class
is_i  ? -q- .    j               c    -  f i
_ t A
, _ ,j~~~~~~~~



- 50-
Annex 6
COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES          Page 10 of 11
On Project Sites
Childrens
* X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Activities
|!iL~~op
__              _           _ "''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wme'
=> i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Literacy
^       ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lse



MAP SECTION



\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ j" '                                              
bo,-~~~~~(
|    _             /                           ;                                         <                                      , Z   0 v41  '                Z E RA    -'v~
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,M
!; .  /<  '>-                                                            -                                 N J' 'N/T  
:~~~~~/\ , ,                                                                                 :,
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~JRA
(A~~~~~~~~~M
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATIONS OF PROJECT SITES
T.                                   >                                    QUWEISM t4                                                          P 0H  ARSAS
/                                              hdoS                                                                                    U P ORz <XG \; ;,        $    '   r-z  s sPADING SITES  RAILtROADS
FISITES AND SERVICES    -  -AMMAN 'ALNICIPAL SOUNDARY
RO~ADS                    SU,[T-UP AREAS
|\  .--   PROPOS,ED 5NON -PROJECT)   +   AIRPORT
MAIOR ,,4?H.=P           CONTOURS IMoTo.I
-1 OHEOR
z                                                                                                                          0'    ,    . ,;    :,, '''1 2, f 3   
Z     /                          ,oR                                                                                                RI|  \  ETITS  ?  s_-*__                   w      -*"-*
_ /0, o"W&  W" R" d  -                                                                                                                                                             F- N    \/  r  c -  r .  r ,e. _ *-
iOlD/                        2                     X               , \            X                  ;           ;                                  c wv k ot   . rr  or _            a _o



- 52 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 76
CO5PLETION REPORT
OF THE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
June 1988
Monitoring and Follow Up Unit
Urband Development Department
Amman - Jordan



Annex 7
- 53 -                        Page 2 of 76
CONTETS
Abstract ............................................................  I
Abbreviations ........................................................ IV
CRAPTER 1.0 "INTR,UCTION .1 ,
CHAPTER 2.0  "PROJBCT INDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION & APPRAISAL" ...... 4
2.1 Origin ...............    .................................. 4
2.2 Preparation, Appraisal, Negotiation and Approval .... 5... 
2.3  Project De cription, Target & Goals .....     ............... 7
CHAPTER 3.0  " IMPELD5NTATION    . .....    .................................  9
3.1 Effectiveness & Start up ............................... 9
3.2  Revision ............    ................................... 9
3.3  Implementation Schedule ................................ 12
3.4  Reporting ............    .................................. 14
3.5  Procurement ..........     .................................. 15
3.6 Costs .     ................................................. 15
3.7  Disbursement & Financial Sources .....     ................... 17
3.8 Performance of Consultants, Contractors .       ............... 18
Suppliers & Borrower
CRAPTER 4.0  "FINANCIIL RESULTS" .   ................................ 20
4.1 Introduction .20
4.2 Project Costs .20
4.3 Project Financing .21
4.4 Project Affordability .22
4.5 Financial Covenants .23
4.6  Financial Internal Rate of Return .24
4.7 Economic Rate of Return .24
CRAPTER 5.0  "INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE & DEVELOPMNNT" .26
5.1  Management & Organizational Effectiveness .26
5.2  Organization Growth & Staff Recruitment .26
5.3 Staff training & Development .28
5.4  Consultants & Institutional Development .29
5.5 The Role of Amman Municipality .29
5.6 Government Contribution .29



- 54 -                              Annex 7
Page 3 of 76
CHAPTER 6.0  HOUSING BANK ROLE AND PRFOMANC  ....................           .. 31
6.1 Introduction                          . . .   31
6.2 Definition of Role               . . .31
6.3  HEB as  Financier .        . ............. ....... ................. 32
6.4 Loans to Beneficiaries                 . . .32
6.5 Conduit of Funds. . . . 33
6.6 A Financial Arm of the Project    ...33
6.7 Provision of Staff                       . . .   33
CHAPTER 7.0 "BANIK PtRFE  . . .." . . .34
7.1  Project Justification & Objectiveness    . . .34
7.2 Project Content & Scheduling.                         ... 34
7.3  Project  Implementation & Operating Outcomes  . .34
7.4 Implication of Project Outcomes               ....36
CHAPTR 8.0 PRDJOCT NONITORING AND EVALUATION   .                .37
8.1 Introduction    ..                                                37
8.2  Monitoring Surveys in Upgrading Sites ....... ........... 37
8.3  Monitoring Surveys in New Sites ......... ............... 39
8.4  A Recent Study by World Bank Mission Staff  . .42
8.5  Beneficiaries Participation in the Project.                      43
CRAPTER 9.0  "C0..C.                                  ..SIOS".                 45
9.2  Success & Failure .......... ........................... 45
9.3  Lessons Learnt .......            ............ 47
ANNRXES
I    UDP1 Project Completion Dates .......................... 51
II  Detailed Cost Estimate .52
III Sumary Cost .53
IV  Withdrawal of Proceeds of the Loan .54
V  Summary Financial Plan .55
VI  UDP1 Loan Disbursement Graph .56
VII    UDP1 Loan: Beneficiary Repayment & Arrears Record .              57
VIII  UDD Organisation Chart                    ..                       58
IX    Financing Costs - Recoverable Elements .59
X Land Use Table .60
XI    Greater Amman Household Income as Compared to .61
UBPl Site & Services Beneficiaries
XII    Recalculated Economic Rates of Return .62



55 -                          Annex 7
Page 4 of 76
LIST OF AIIVIATIOU
UDD               Urban Development Department
UDP1              First Urban Development Project
Bank              International   Bank    for    Reconstruction    and
Development
IDB               Industrial Development Bank
3)11              Jordan Housing Bank
BC                Housing Corporation
MOP               Ministry of Planning
MIRAKE            Ministry of Municipal, Rural Affairs and
the Environment
MOF               Ministry of Finance
AM                Aiman Municipality
IDC               Interest During Construction
S/S               Sites & Services
UPG               Upg ading
VTC               Vocational Training Centre
WTC               Women training Centre
PCH               Project Completion Report
AWSA              Ammn Water & Sewerage Authority
JEPCO             Jordan Electric Power Company



Annex 7
- 56 -                         Page 5 of 76
ABSTRACT
This is a comprehensive report of the 1st Urban Development
Project (UDPI) undertaken by the Urban Development Department (UDD) in
the period 1980-1986, and financed by the Governemnt of Jordan, the
Hcusing Dank, and the World Bank.
Apart from providing a historic account of important events
which took place throughout the various stages of project's life, the
report aims at summarizing the experiences gained during implementation
and the extent t which project objectives were achieved.
The report concludes that despite the few problems encountered
during the intisl stages of implementation, the project has been largely
successful in meeting its goals, which namely are: upgrading low-income
settlements,   giving  their  inhabitants  security  of  tenure,  providing
affordable shelter to many lower-income groups without subsidy, and
improving the standard of public services in poorer neighbourhoods
Furthermore, and based on the experience already gained from
this project, two more projects (UDP2 & UDP3) are currently underway.
An important lesson gained from the experience of this project
is the need to provide a high degree of flexibility in concepts and their
subsequent implementation especially for a pilot project similar to this
one..



Annex 7
- 57 -                       Page 6 of 76
1.    INTDOUCTION
Jordan(l) is a highly urbanized country. Following three decades of
high  population  growth  and massive imigration, about 70 percent of
its 2.8 million inhabitants live  in  cities  and  towns.   The  urban
population is growing at an annual rate of about 4 percent.
Because of the Government's infrastructure and zoning policies, much
of the urban housing has taken the form of sprawling, scattered
developments   on   large   plots.   This brought with  it excessiv
infrastructure  costs  and  a  shortage  of housing   affordable   to
low-income  groups.   The  poor had  little  choice but  to  live in
overcrowded conditions in rental apartments or in informal housing
areas.
The project under consideration (UDPI) has played an important role
in introducing a new approach to the treatment of squatter and
shelter needs for the lowest income groups of urban dwellers. Under
the project,  shelter  and  related  infrastructure   and   comaunity
facilities were sade available to the lower income groups at prices
which  they  can  afford with  a minimum  of  subsidies  to   ensure
replicability.
Within the foregoing 6 year national plan (1980-1985) investment on
housing has totalled JD  782 million,  88m  came  from  the private
sector.   Within  the  remaining  12S (i.e. JD 93 million) invested by
the public sector, UDP1 constituted 20X.
The  Housing Bank  (HB), created  in  1974, as  a   formal   credit
institution for housing finance was given the mandate to support and
promote  housing construction  activities  in  Jordan.    The   H.B.
investment  in  private sector housing under the 1980-85 national plan
has totalled JD 193 million, i.e. 28t of total investment in this
sector.
The WorlgI Bank(2) has been active in finding solutions to the
problems  created by  rapid  urbanization   in  Jordan.    Extensive
economic and sector work has been carried out, as well as project
Data in the text that follows refer to the E. Bank of Jordan.
(2) The text that follows refers to the World Bank by the word "
Bank "



Annex 7
Page 7 of 76
financing for urban development. The bank's strategy in this
sector, based on recent studiesf(), concentrates on assistance
to: raise primary urban service levels especially to the lower
income groups; increase the supply of serviced land for which
costs would be recovered; improve physical and development
planning in Amnan and other urban centers; and strengthen the
capacity of local government to plan, implement, and manage
the functions for which they are responsible.
In support of the above strategy, the Bank's lending in the
sector falls into three categories: (a) water and sewerage
projects, (b) municipal projects, and (c) shelter projects.
In all, thirteen loans have so far been extended to Jordan
concerned with the above three categories.
The first project with urban implications financed by the Bank
was the project for the water supply (in A-uan) in  1961.  This
was followed by other loans to the Water Authority, Cities and
Villages Development Bank, Amman Municipality, and the Urban
Development Department.
The project under consideration, the first Bank-financed Urban
Development Project in Jordan, was to involve upgradiD- 4
squatter areas in the capital accommodating 1500 families, and
the creation of 3 new sites and services housing schemes  for  a
further  5000  families.   The agreement was signed on September
8, 1980. The borrower is the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the project was to be carried out by the Municipality of
Amman. A department called  the  Urban  Development  Department
(UDD) was  specially  set  up in the Municipality to act as the
executing agency of the project.  The department was delegated
special powers and responsibility ard given financial and
administrative freedom necessary to carry out its task.
The Housing Bank (BB) was proposed as a partner in the
project.   As  an established institution, the Housing Bank role
was to provide a significant proportion (JD 7.3 Million) of
the local financing, roll over construction finance into long
term loans to beneficiaries, administer cost recovery and
generally act as the financial arm of the project.   The  extent
to which this latter role proved both possible and desirable
is discussed later in this report.
(1) Urban Sector Review (No. 3 965-JO, June 1983)
Water Sector Review (No. 4 699-JO, Jan. 1984)
Regional Development Study (Sept. 1984)



Annex 7
- 59 -                              Page 8 of 76
PCR Rsfere,m
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2974-JO, June 1980)
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5569-JO, May 1985)
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6739-JO, May 1987)
Jordan Urban Project (UDPl Final Report), October 1979
Second Urban  Development  Project  (UDP2  Feasibility  Report),
November 1984
UDP3 Programe Feasibility Studies, December 1986
UDD Quarterly Progress Reports, 1980-1987
Monitoring  Survey  First Report - Marka, Ruseifa & Quweisdeh,
July 1987
fea th Population in Squatter Areas  of  Aman  (A  Reassessent
After 4 Years of Upgrading), June 1986
Jordan Urban Sector Review (Rep. No. 3965-JO), June 1983
Institutional  Issues  in  the Housing Sector - National Housing
Strategy (Ministry of Planning), August 1987



- 60 -                              Annex 7
Page 9 of 76
2.    P9OJECT IDENTIFICATION. PRBPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.1   Origin
High urban land prices, coupled with large minimum legal plot
sizes,   restrictive  planning  and  building  regulations,  and
inadequate  access  to  established   financial    arkets   have
combined   to   deny   the   low-income   population  access  to
reasonable housing at prices  they  can  afford.   At  the  same
time, the lack of instruments to guide urban growth has led to
excessively high costs for urban infrastructure provision and
low rates of utilization of existing facilities.
The   Government,   concerned with  the  inadequate  supply  of
housing for lower-income groups for zany years, responded to
the problem of high housing construction costs by establishing
subsidized housing funds for groups of Government employees
and by creating the  Housing  Corporation  (BC)  in  1966.  Yet
despite implicit subsidies, NC has experienced difficulties in
meeting  the  demand  for  low-income   shelter.    Furthermore,
although WC's output has been consistently below target, the
units have not been attractive to middle income households and
a significant proportion of its units remained unoccupied for
long periods.
Until recently, there was a tacit acceptance of both illegal
occupancy and disregard of building and planning regulations.
Occasionally, efforts were made to clear squatter areas and
resettle the residents in planned comunities although, more
frequently the Government made ad hoc efforts to regularize
the  existing  tenure  and  zoning  situations  in  the  growing
informal  settlements.   The municipalities and public utilities
agencies have also made major  progress  in  catching  up  with
service deficiencies but these efforts have been uncoordinated
and costly.
With the creation of the UDD and the implementation of the
First Urban Development Project the Government adopted a more
planned approach to the upgrading of slum and squatter settle-
ments  featuring  regularization  of  tenure   and   coordinated
provision    of    engineer ng    infrastructure    and   social
facilities.  Similarly, the sites sad services component of



- 61 -                           Annex 7
Page 13 of 76
this project developed small plots and core houses affordable
to  low-income  families.   These efforts, however, were limited
to the Greater Amman area. In 1986, the UDD was given a new
mandate  to  upgrade informal settlements and develop low-income
plots on a nation wide basis.
2.2   Preparation, Appraisal, Negotiation and Approval
The Identification and Feasibility Study for the first project
was prepared and completed in 1979 by the Consultants Halcrow
Fox and Associates (British consulting firm) in association
with Jouzy and Partners (local firm). The Government funded
the study and its participation was achieved through a project
manager   appointed  by  the  Amman Municipality  and  through
liaison with the Steering Coamittee (Ministry of Planning
(MOP)(l), Ministry  of Municipal  and Rural Affairs  and  the
Environment (MMRAl), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Housing Bank
(IB), Housing Corporation (HC) and Amsan Municipality (AM).
The Bank played an advisory role on the terms of reference of
the  study, without  sharing  its   costs.    Other   concerned
agencies provided advice on the approach and its acceptability
in the country.
Under the study, a wide range of issues emerged
i) the need for sites and services (S/S) and slum upgrading
ii) development concepts and standards, and
iii) Institutional and financial structures for implementation
(see Feasibility Study, Working Papers, Interim
Report I, II).
They were reviewed and appraised by a Government Steering
Committee in liaison with the Bank  and  the  consultants.   The
development standards arrived at were a copromise between
minimal cost and affordability criteria on one level, and what
was acceptable to the Government on the other.
The Government had also, after review, introduced new project
sites (Ruseifa and Marka) not included on the consultants
recommended list for adoption in the project.
;
(1) Formerly National Planning Council (NPC)



-62 -                       AAnnex 7
Page 11 of 76
The  Bank, Government  and  RB  agreed  upon the funding of the
project, and, after a consideration of several alternatives,
it was decided to set up a new department (UDD) to implement
the project and to locate it for an initial and experimenta
period with AM, as a semi-independent department with its own
director, staff, powers, and responsibilities.
The  Feasibility  Study prepared  by   the   consultants,   was
essential and provided the whole basis of the approach now
adopted by the Government.
In the context of Jordan's technical and managerial capability
the project was adequately prepared.
Following this, loan negotiations were concluded in June 1980.
During loan negotiation the Bank wished to reduce the loan
amount from $21 to $19.5 million. This was resisted by the
Jordanian delegation and the higher figure was adopted as the
loan.
It was  agreed  that an interest rate study should be completed
within two years of the signing of  the  loan  agreement.   This
was later incorporated into the Housing Strategy Study.
No significant changes were sade in the project originally
defined and that presented to the Bank's Executive Directors.
The Dank had also kept the Government fully informed of its
standard loan conditions related to civil works, procurement,
reimburse_nt and appointment of consultants.
In agreement with the Bank, the consultants were reselected by
negotiation  to   assist   the   Government  implementing   the
following:-
a) improvement of planning and building regulations and land
tenure arrangement in Amian Region.
b)  Strengthening  of the  institutional   and   organizational
framework of the Municipality in various fields.
c) design and supervision of the project, and preparation,
review and evaluation of tender documents for the project.
d) training of the Municipality staff in urban management
practices.



- 63 -                       Annex 7
Page 12 of 76
e) development of an overall housing strategy for Jordan and
the policies required for the implementation thereof.
f) studies necessary to prepare a follow-up project to this
project.
Through the provision of consultants and advisory services to
the public agencies responsible for the development of low
cost housing and infrastructure services, the project aimed to
strengthen their institutional and organizational framework
and assist the Government in developing policie to meet these
needs.
Adequate   arrangements   and  agreements  were  made  regarding
project start up.
In retrospect it is clear that the issues raised at the
feasibility stage and the identification of the target group
and project scope were relevant. But if a firm comittment of
the development standards had been kept, much abortive work
and loss of time in implementation could have been avoided.
2.3   Project Description, Targets and Goals
The primary goal of the project was to provide shelter and
related  infrastructure  and  co  unity  facilities to the lower
income groups at prices which they could afford with a minimum
of subsidies to ensure replicability. The project would also
provide for improvements in productivity among the urban poor
through the provision of loans to viable smell enterprises and
vocational and  coumercial  training  to  their  employees.   It
aimed at increasing the low level of female participation in
the labour force through the provision of specialized and
locally  sited  female  training  facilities.   This  project is
seen by the Government, the Housing Bank and the Bank as the
beginning of a longer term programe to provide for shelter
and employment related needs for the poor urban dwellers.
To achieve the above objectives the project was to comprise
the following components:-
a) site and services - (63S of project costs) - involves the
provision of 5,000 plots with on-site infrastructure, a
variety   of   on-plot   development  options  and building
material loans on three sites in Amman and its periphery,
benefitting a population of about 40,000 people;



- 64 -                        Annex 7
Page 13 of 76
b)  Upgrading   four   low-income   settlements(l)  (18%  of  the
project  cost)  in Aman  city  benefitting   about   15,000
people, through the provision of secure tenure, access and
circulation roads, water supply, sanitation, electricity,
health and comunity centers, and building material loans;
c)  small business  assistance  and  manpower  training  (9X  of
project costs) - provision at the above sites of shops and
workshop plots, soe with core units, loans and technical
assistance to sm 11 businessmen; and vocational training
for youth and women; and
d)  project management, design, supervision and studies  (10  of
project costs) - provision firstly of equipment and of
local staff  to be  recruited  by  UDD  and   secondly   of
consultant and advisory services for:
i) project design, supervision and assistance to UDD
ii) development of a longer term strategy for dealing with
the   problem    of   inadequate   urban   housing    and
infrastructure; and
iii) preparation of any future projects that may form part
of this strategy.
It quantitative terms 'the above aims were achieved except for
the following(2):
- New plots were reduced from 5,000 to approximately 2,800.
The population benefitting was consequently reduced to some
20,000 (ref. sec. 3.2).
- One upgrading site was omitted due to new road proposals.
Approximately  10,000  people   benefitted   from   the   sites
actually upgraded (ref. P. 11).
- No loans have been provided to small enterprises (i.e. IDB
Loans) due to the absence of demand.
- Additional on-plot comercial construction  was  undertaken  by
UDD, due to marketing considerations, rather than by the
beneficiaries with construction finance from the H.B. as
originally intended.
- The economic development extension service (i.e. business-
oriented training for individuals who intend to open a shop
or a work shop) originally to be provided by the UDD, was not
pursued.
In addition the development of a long term housing strategy
[referred to in item d(ii)] was carried out later than intended
and has not yet been adopted by the Government.
(1) In fact the number of proposed upgrading settlements was 5
but due to the close vicinity of two sites (Nuzha and Wadi
Haddadah), they were considered in the appraisal as one
site.
(2) More details on page 10.



- 65 -                    Annex 7
Page 14 of 76
3.    DPLDMWTATION
Following feasibility in 1979 and the conclusion of loan
negotiations in 1980, the newly established Department (UDD)
started in earnest implementing a wide range of operations
leading to a speedy start up of the project in question.
3.1   Effectiveness and Start Up
Conditions    of   loan   effectiveness   agreed   upon   during
negotiation included:
a)  signature  of  subsidiary  loan   agreements   between   the
Government and the HB and between the Government and the
IDB; and
b) appointment of the UDD director, core staff, and staff to
be seconded from NBC and BB and liaison staff from AWSA,
WSC and JEPOO.
While the second condition of effectiveness was easily met by
the establishment of the UDD and cooperation of the concerned
agencies, the first condition was not achieved on time due to
delays in reaching agreement between the BB and the Government
on the  terms  for the  HB  participation.   Specifically  this
related to the payment of interest on construction finance
provided by the BB, not initially provided  for.   The  original
target effectiveness date, 9th December 1980, was thus delayed
until 28th April 1981, after subsidiary loan agreements were
approved  and  signed.  As a result the first Bank disbursement
was delayed until May 1981.  However  this  did  not  have  any
detrimental effect on project implementation.
3.2   Revision
I
By   June  1981  most project  lands were  acquired,  the UDD
adequately staffed, social and physical surveys underway, and
the design and contract documents for Quweismeh and B. Wahdat
ready.
Following this, however, a series of tendering problems were
encountered.   Despite  the extension of the submission date for
Quweismeh and B. Wahdat till November 1981, and allowance to
the separation of the two tenders, no contractor submitted any
bid by the target  closing  date.   An  investigation  into  the
reasons behind the abstention of contractors indicated the
following:



- 66 -                     Annex 7
Page 15 oE 76
a)  international  contractors  not  interested   in   upgrading
projects;
!
b)  prequalified   contractors   engaged   in  larger  and more
profitable projects;
c) large contractors considered the contracts as being too
small;
d)  onerous   contract  conditions   and   inadequate   advance
payment; and
e) difficulties in obtaining bid and performance bonds.
Retendering of the project and prequalification of contractors
were announced in December 1981.  The project  sites  involved
were Marka, Ruse  fa and Quweismeh. Bidding for more than one
site was  optional.   By  18th March   1982,   4   contractors
submitted  their  tenders.   After  evaluation, recommendations
were passed to award the three contracts to a Chinese firm
(CATIC) and approval from Amman Municipal Council was  obtained
in June 1982.
At this point, however, for a variety of reasons concerning
the  maintenance  of  traditional  planning   and   development
standards and security matters, the Government decided not to
proceed with the scheme as designed and instructed a redesign
of the project at more generous standards of plot size, road
and  footpath   reserves,  and  so  on.  The  p'lot  size   was
increased by 50 percent and circulation areas by 200 percent
over appraisal standards, thus reducing the number of plots
from 5,000 to 2,800, and extending the target group from
families below the 33rd percentile, as initially agreed, to
families below the 40th percentile. The upgrading component,
by its nature, was not affected by the Government decision.
This Government  action  together with  previously  mentioned
tendering   problems  were   major   set-backs   to  the  newly
established executing agency (UDD).   On  top  of  the  9 month
delay already incurred in tendering contracts, more than one
year passed as the issues raised by the Government were
examined and  redesign  work  was  undertaken.   Major problems
involved  were   that   the   increase   in   plot   size   and
infrastructure standards unavoidably increased the cost per
unit, creating difficulties of affordability at the same time
as reducing the number of direct beneficiary families.



Annex 7
- 67 -                     Page 16 of 76
Also, the pressure to get the schemes proceeding as soon as
possible meant that the original physical planning principles
could   not be  reconsidered.   Although  soce  of  these were
affected by the revised standards; certain features of the
initial design were inappropriately but unavoidably retained
in the redesigned  schemes.   For  example,  had  it  originally
been known that footpaths were to be six meter wide, they
would have been designed as  roads.   In  land-use  terms  these
are eq ivalent to small access roads which could have been
incorporated at the early design stage.
An amendment to project agreement taking into account the new
design standards and their effects on the project was agreed
and signed on 18th January 1983.
Following this the redesign process and re-'endering were
completed  successfully   and   in   accordance   with   revised
implementation  schedules.   Most upgrading  projects  (Wahdat,
Jofeh, Rima) were awarded in the second half of 1982 and S/S
projects (Marka, Ruseifa, Quweismeh) during 1983.
In 1983 Wadi-Haddadah upgrading site had to be abandoned
because of Municipality plans for a highway which would have
affected 30X of the beneficiaries and reduced the site by
about 50X. Another inherent problem in the site is the high
price of land requested by private owners.
The above highway had also affected decision to go ahead with
the nearby Nuzha site, as the effects of the highway on this
site were then unknown. Consequently, the Nuzha contract was
awarded about 4 years later (April 1986) after modification of
original plans.
Another change to the project during implementation related to
connection charges. The original understanding with utility
authorities to waive connection charges was not implemented
and beneficiaries had to pay a fee to obtain water and
electricity meters. However these fees were levied by the UDD
on behalf of the utility authorities at a preferential rate.
Changes in the project content and increases in the value of
the US dollar resulted (in September 1985) in a reallocation
of  funds.   Consequently  additional  funds  were available for
more  commercial  and   community   facilities   and   for   the
construction    of   the   UDD   headquarters   building.    The
disbursement per,entage has also notably increased.



Annex 7
- 68 -                     Page 17 of 76
The IDB component of the project was  not  implemented  because
of  the  absence  of demand.   The  line  of credit was fin!'lly
closed by the Bank in March 1987.
Under the project agreement special studies were requested as
complementary components to be prepared by the UDD with the
assistance of the consultants, the studies were:
a)  Development of an overall housing strategy  for Jordan  and
policies    required   for   the   implementation   thereof.
Invitations  to  consultants  to   undertake   the   Housing
Strategy  Study  were sent out in mid 1982 but the tendering
procedure was not  concluded  and  the  terms  of  reference
eventually  became  part  of  those  for  the  Shelter  Unit
formed by the Ministry of Planning. The Unit has already
i3sued a series of technical reports related to  the  study,
but final recomendations are still pending.
b)  Improvement  of planning  and building regulations and land
tenure arrangement in Amman Region. A  study was  prepared
and some of the findings were incorporated in the Aman
Development Plan Report in 1986.
c)  Studies necessary to prepare a  follow-up  project  to  this
project:
- An Identification Report of specific sites (about 20)
was completed in March 1982, but was not adopted because
of the need to concentrate resources on UDP1 at that
time.
- A Site Identification Study was completed in August
1982.   The  study  dealt  with  general   locations   for
potential projects.
- An  Identification  Report  for  UDP2  - completed in June
1984, was the basis for the Feasibility Study for UDP2.
- Feasibility Reports for UDP2 - completed in November
1984.
The results of the last two reports formed the basis of the
Second Urban Development Project (UDP2).
3.3   Implementation Schedule
On comparing appraisal and actual completion dates (see annex
I) it appears that most projects had delays ranging from one
to two years with the exception of Jofeh and Rimam which had
few  delays.   Nuzha  site  being  exceptional  for  the reasons
mentioned earlier, a delay of over 3 years was incurred.
However, contractually speaking, implementation of the works
on more than 75t of all sites has been completed on tine and
with minimum delay.



Annex 7
- 69 -                        Page 13 of 76
The main reasons causing delays came from:
a)  Terms  and  packaging  of contracts causing delays of 6 to 9
months.
b) Government intervention in July 1982 causing delays of
12-15 months in the new sites and 3-9 months in upgrading
sites.
c)  Contractor or others (i.e. variation  orders  etc.)  -  very
few delays except in N. Ruseifa (about 9 months) and Nuzha
(9 months) delay.
Despite these delays, the UDD  has  successfully  completed  all
the  physical  upgrading  and  S/S  works  f r all planned sites
(except Wadi Haddadah). Hitherto (September 1987) over 95X of
project  plots  have been  sold.   In  addition  loans for land
purchase and building have so far been extended to over  70%  of
beneficiaries.
In all, the project was delayed by about 1 1/2 - 2 years. The
closing date of the project originally  set  as  the  30th  June
1985 eventually became 31st December 1987.
The delays in implementation of the new sites resulted in:
- Increased I.D.C.
- Increased Project Management Costs
- Increased costs per unit.
Slower disbursements than anticipated at appraisal.
The effects of delays and changes were not wholly negative.
Benefits included:
- A   more   competitive   tendering  climate  at  the  time  of
retendering resulting in lower unit rates.
- A  longer  time  for  promotion   and   knowledge   of   UDD's
activities by the public, with an increase in pent-up demand
for a reduced number of plots all resulting in easier
marketing conditions.
- Improved design from experience in the upgrading sites
where demonstration units has been constructed.
- No extended periods between completion of the plots and
completion of community facilities.



Annex 7
- 70 -                       Page l9 of 76
The   original time  estinate was  generally  over  optimistic
because of the following factors:
- Topographical  surveys   which    were    prepared    between
feasibility study and project com_encement proved to be
unreliable because of their poor quality and no one to
supervise their preparation particularly for the upgrading
sites.   Resurvey was  necessary  in  the case of East Wahdat
and parts of other sites.
- No time was allowed for centreline or soil surveys after
detailed design.
The design periods for the first sites relative to later
ones  did  not  reflect  the work   necessary   on   standard
engineering and architectural details and documents which
had to be completed for the first sites.
- The design appraisal and tender evaluation periods of one
month were not achievable in practice.
(subsequent projects took account of the above factors.)
In retrospect, most of the above delays could not have been
foreseen at appraisal due to the exploratory and experizental
nature  of  this  pioneering  project.   Despite this, the major
delay was caused by having to  accoimodate  new  standards  very
late in the work prograte.
3.4   Reporting
Throughout  the  various  stages  of  implementation the UDD has
maintained good and  acceptable  reporting  procedures   through
Quarterly Progress Reports and Financial Statements prepared
in compliance with the Bank requirements of which the UDD was
made fully aware at the beginning of the project.



Annex 7
- 71 -                      Page 20 of 76
3.5   Procurement
By and large, the UDD did not face tangible problems in
following the Bank's guidelines on  procurement.   An  exception
to   this  rule   is  related  to  the  issue  of  contractors'
prequalification which had to be updated every  year.   To  over
come this difficulty and avoid unnecessary delays, it was
agreed with the Bank that previously qualified contractors
should submit the necessary informations and documentations to
update their prequalification alongside their bids.
UDD has also generally adhered to the Bank's procurement
procedures on civil works anI equipment.
The borrower   has   greatly  benefited   from   international
competitive  bidding  as  it  has,  inevitably,  led  to  lower
contract prices and consequently lower unit  rates.   This  has
in some way contributed to the success of the project which
had the production of low cost replicable housing alternatives
as one of its major objectives.
3.6   Costs
Comments  on  cost  changes  from  appraisal  to completion (See
Annexes II & III )
Land Acquisition
This rose from 19  of the total project cost  to  25X.   Between
appraisal and actual land acquisition there was a lapse of 12-
18 months at a time of rapidly rising land prices.
Site Prenaration
There was a rise due to the construction of retaining walls -
compared with  earth  embankment  allowed  at  appraisal.  The
projection   of  the  embankments  into  the  plot  area  caused
marketing problems.
On Site Infrastructure
Cost increases under this heading are accounted for by a
general increase in standards requested by Government and the
service authorities for roads, footpaths, water supply and
sewerage.



-72 -                      Annex 7
Page 21 of 76
Off Site Infrastructure
There was a reduction in this element. Between appraisal and
implementation there was a rapid extension of the mumicipal
water and sewerage network allowing for shorter connection
distances. Sites benefitting from this are E. Wahdat, Nuzha
and Ruseifa.
On Plot_Development
This element rose from JD 3,183,800 of project cost to JD
4,527,700 as a result of increased standards which arose
following    comment   by    prospective    beneficiaries    on
demonstration nits. The main change related to increase in
room  sizes  from  3m  x  3m to 3.6. x 3.6., higher standards of
finish and a change from load bearing blockwork to reinforced
concrete  frame  and  infill  blockwork.   There were savings in
connection charges, omission of storage tanks, and reduction
of  front  walls.   This element is also inflated by the cost of
the UDD building in Marka which has been included mostly under
this heading.
Building- Material Loans.  Small Business Loan  Dev. ext. serv.
Lo ns
There was a reduction in this element. This is accounted for
by the:
- Lack of interest in ID8 business loans, by the beneficiaries.
- Some religous objections to loans.
- Uncompleted demand for building material loans prior to loan
closure   especially   in   Ruseifa   and   Quweisueh    where
beneficiaries are still applying for such loans.
Shops & Workshops
There   was  an  increase  in  the  amount of built  provision
particularly in East Wahdat following the reallocation of loan
funds.
Community Facilities
There was an increase in the cost of community facilities, due
to the higher standards required by the Ministry of Education
for   schools  and  larger  clinics  (although  the number was
reduced from 5 to 3), and also due to additional site works
(e.g. retaining walls, playgrounds, ..etc.) and landscaping
which were not originally accommodated for and were intended
to be implemented later by the concerned authorities.



73 -                        Annex 7
Page 22 of 76
The other facilities VTC, WTC, and community centres were
built to the original atandards  but  the  latter  type  is  now
considered  inadequate.   In addition, additional buildings were
introduced (Kindergartens and a Maternity and Childhood Centre
in Wahdat).
Rtqian &_uRgervision
This rose because of the extended time period of design as a
result of the need to redesign the new sites.
Pro ect Management
This element more than doubled due to the extended period of
the projec .
The above increases were only partly mitigated by price and
physical contingencies producing a net increase of 25X on the
appraisal estimpte.
This increase :as financed from reallocations (see annexes III
& IV), increased government contributions and the appreciation
in the JD value of the Bank Loan.
3.7   Disbursements & Financial Sources
The  contribution  of  the various funding agencies varied from
that assumed at appraisal (see  annex  V).  The  changes  arose
for a number of reasons, the major ones of which were:
JD Million
a.  Increased support from tovernment             2.2
b.  Higher dollar/dinar parity rates              0.9
c.  Increased demand for building loans           0.1
d.  Generating of internal surpluses not
included at appraisal stage                   1.1
(after funding I.D.C.)
4.3
Regarding disbursements of the loan, a graph (see annex VI)
comparing appraisal estimates and actual, illustrates the slow
rate of disbursement in 1981 and 1982 for reasons stated in
Section 3.3. However even when contracting commenced the rate
never achieved that expected at appraisal. This was due to a
rise in the value cf the US$, longer construction times, and
delayed take up of building loans.



- 74 -                        Annex 7
Page 23 of 76
3.8   Performance   of  Consultants,   Contractors,   Suppliers,  and
Borrower
3.8.1 Consultants
The consultants' performance was generally  satisfactory.   The
following is a list of the consultants' major tasks together
with the appropriate consents and remarks.
Feasibility  Studies  -   prepared   to   a   high   degree   of
proficiency.   Despite  this,  the  studies  did  not adequately
anticipate the beneficiaries preference and liking to the. type
and design of units provided.
Detailed Designs - designs for new sites were satisfactory.
As  for  upgrading   sites,   the   designs   did   not   tackle
appropriately the issue of reblocking, leaving it to the
construction stage, which gave rise to many problems during
implementation. They have also over emphasized the need to
retain existing buildings and boundaries.
Education, Health, and Community Facilities - designs were
adequate  for  schools  and  clinics  but  not  'for   community
facilities  (commUnity  centres  and  women  training  centres).
The demand for community facilities exceeded the original
forecasts and developed along with community  prograsmes.  This
had caused some technical problems in the design of extensions
for these facilities.
Training of UDD Staff - the training of UDD staff was not
generally   sufficient   and  confined  itself  to  on  the  job
training  in  certain  fields  especially  the  technical   one.
Exceptions   to  this  are  a  three month  training  programme
organized in 1982 and some intermitent seminars.   Reasons were
probably the Consultants' considerations of other priority
tasks within the time allotted to them.
3.8.2 Supervision Consultants
The    performance   of   i.upervision   consultants   was   also
satisfactory,  reflected  in  prompt and   wise   handling   of
problems arising on all sites during construction. However,
there has been an apparent lack of adequate feedback on the
designs    and    contract    documents   in   the   course   of
implementation. For example, discrepancies between bills and
specifications discovered during implementation went largely
unreported to the  UDD.  Valuable  information  for  subsequent
projects may have been lost in this way. Other remarks on the
consultant's  performance  may  also  include   the   sometimes,
biadequate checking of contractors' bills and also the delay
in preparation of project final accounts.



- 75 -                     Annex 7
Page 24 of 76
3.8.3 Contractors
The contractors' performance was good. This was reflected in
the good quality of workmanship and management of  projects  and
the  fact  that  most projects  were completed on time and with
minimum delays.
3.8.4 Suppliers
The suppliers' performance was satisfactory.  The  good  quality
of equipments  and  the general adherence to delivery dates are
both witnesses to this fact.
3.8.5 The Borrower
The borrower has generally exhibited a sufficient degree of
technical and managerial competence during the implementation
of the project. But some delays on some of the works occured
due to the reasons mentioned earlier in the report and also
due  to  the  gradual build-up  of   the   department's  staff
capabilities,   which  had  stsrted  on  a modest  and  limited
scale. On the whole, the borrower had gained, through the
implementation of the project, considerable experience in the
various  technical,   administrative   and   financial   fields.
Throughout the project period, the borrower had maintained
good working relationships with the consultants, contractors,
and suppliers through constant conunication.
The Bank's involverent in various aspects of the project was
also appropriate and balanced.



Annex 7
- 76 -                     Page 25 of 76
4.    FINANCIAL ESULTS
4.1   Introduction
Bearing in mind that the project was the first venture of its
kind in the urban sector in Jordan the overall financial
results can be viewed with reasonable satisfaction by all
parties  concerned.   That  significant  deviations  would arise
was somewhat inevitable, however few if any of such deviations
have had a fundamental impact on the financial profiles as
estimated at  appraisal stage.   Comparative  figures  together
with expl nations of the major variances are contained in the
ensuing sections.
4.2   Project Costs
4.2.1 Land Acquisition - The majority of the land acquired for the
project was  formerly  in  private  ownership.   Virtually  all
sites were acquired by negotiation and on-time. In the early
1980's building construction  in  Amman was booming, bringing
pressure on land prices.
4.2.2 Civil  Work  -  When  adjustment  is made  for  contingencies,
overspendings under this heading are modest. This was in part
attributable to highly competitive tenders for two of the
sites and service sites and some reduction in the scope of
civil engineering works.  On-plot development costs generally
exceeded budget because of the increased standards, increased
commercial construction, and the inclusion of UDD office under
this heading . The Haddadah site was dropped from the package
with a consequent cost saving. Higher standards, particularly
for roads and footpaths, have undoubtedly contributed to cost
over-runs but not to the degree that might have been expected.
4.2.3 Assistance to Small Business - Little demand for formal sector
support  for  this  component was  forthcoming.   This may be
reflective  of  the  indirect nature   of   the   institutional
arrangement made to handle the finds (ie. through an existing
institution, IDB, unfamiliar with  the  project).   The  outcome
was that a proportion of the loan was cancelled and further
efforts to extend business loans were not pursued.



Annex 7
- 77 -                    Page 26 of 76
4.2.4 Design Supervision, Project Management-Additional expenditure
has   been  incurred  under  these  headings  for  a  number  of
reasons. The major ones are:
a.  An extended design (re-design) and implementation period.
b.  The single project  nature  of  UDD  and  the  inability  to
distribute costs on a broader base.
c.  The  inevitable  cost  implications  of  establishing  a new
staff, ineAperienced for the most part, in the conceptual
aspects of the programme.
4.2.5 Contingencies - Physic 1 and price contingencies proved to be
generally adequate in terms of scale.   The  extended  timefreme
of the project eroded some of the price contingency, however.
4.2.6 Project Costs, Overall - The overall increase in cost of JD
4,249,400.00 (25.0%) is reasonable, A significant part of this
additional cost was knowingly incurred, in the light of the
JD/USs  parity  that  appertained   throughout  much   of   the
implementation  period,  on  additional works.   Taken together
with  increased  land  costs  of JD  1,981,200  (11.7%)   these
account for most of the cost increase. Annexes II & III set
out,  in  comparative  form, original estimates   and   actual
results.
4.3   Project Financing
After   initial  difficulties  regarding, the  non-inclusion  of
interest  on  construction   finance   (within   the   financial
arrangements),   project   financing   did   not   prove  unduly
onerous. Differing interest rates, were used for Bank and
local   construction  finance  (BB) and  this  in-turn  led  to
pragmatic solutions to the management of debt repayment by UDD
which were not always to its advantage.
Difficulty was experienced in assessing appropriate rates of
interest  during  construction  due  to  the  multi-rate   basis
operating (8 1/4X, 8X, 0X) and a global rather than need-based
transfer of government funds. As UDD did not possess any "own
resources"  a  conservative  approach  was  required.  The Banks
appraisal report conveyed the idea of earmarked financing for
specific components, including apportionable elements, without
providing  any mechanism  to  achieve  this  in  practice.   No
provision was made for the advanced funding of reimbursable
elements and a special fund was not provided for. Components
procured under a single contract often involved both grant and
loan   elements   which   could   only   be   quantified   after
construction.



- 78 -                           Annex 7
Page 27 of 76
This led to some conflict between HB and UDD in the early
years of the project before practicality overcame theory and a
pooled approach, within an overall framework, was universally
accepted. The original financial plan and the actual plan
that ensued are reproduced in Annex V.
4.4   Project Affordability
4.4.1 New Sites
Direct comparison of the plot affordability estimates made at
appraisal and those which actually resulted are not possible
due  to  the  changes  that  have   aken place in plot sizes and
on-plot development options actually constructed.   Social  lots
were indicated to reach the lower range of 10-23 percentile at
appraisal stage. Using details of the Marka site by way of
example the following actual results were obtained.
(Subsidy) Monthly** Percen-+
Type            Plot Area Capital Cost Premium   Payment  tile X
_ ___M-             JD           JD       JD
B. Two room        155         5061          (34)      51       28
C. One room        154         4206         (339)      41       18
D. Vacant plot     158          3820*         24       42       20
Based on 18 year loan e 8.5% pa.
Inc. building material loans of JD 1546
+      Based upon 33% of income less utility costs
New   sites,   except  for Quweismeh, produce  surpluses  when
revenue from market housing and commercial development is
included.
The appraisal report foresaw the sale of market housing plots
at  a  sale  price  of  XD16/n2.   Figures of 21-223D/m2 were in
fact achieved.
4.4.2 Upgrading
The appraisal report countenanced the sale of upgrading lots
at a cost of approximately JD4,2. In -st cases this proved
to  be  substantially  less  than  the  direct  cost   of   land
acquisition  only.   Fot  sizes  ranged between  30 and 20Gm2.
Plots as small as those indicated by the lower end of this
range proved to be politically unacceptable and affordability,
particularly in terms  of  savings,  significantly  higher  than
could  reasonably  have been predicted.   The final output for
the Wadi-Rimam site exemplifies some of these factors.



-79-                        Annex 7
Page 28 of 76
Cost Per ML4 - Land and Siteworks - JD
Land      Siteworks      D&S+      P.M*     IDC**    Total
8.52         6.36        0.60      1.69     1.63     18.80
+       D & S -  Design & Supervision
*       P . M -  Project Managment
**      I D C -  Interest During Construction
Cost - Ayerate Plot/Cost Recovery
Size Capital Cost  Sale Price   Monthly Repayment
rnci. Utilities     Percentile
M2        rJD          JD               JD                X
115       2160         2100              25               34
Apart from a small number of welfare cases such  plots  (perhaps
after increased downpayments) were affordable to beneficiaries.
It was not possible to fully recover costs on all upgrading
sites but generally, deficits, where they arose, were small
and taken as a whole upgrading generated a surplus as shown
below.
3D'000
E. Wahdat                351
Rima                     104
Jofa                    ( 87)
Nuzha                   ( 52)
316
4.5   Financial Covenants
4.5.1 Project Agreement
Section 2.09.   The  concept  of  the  long-tern  seconduent  of
staff   is  inappropriate   to   the   establishment   of   new
organisations where a clear comaitment to institution building
is required.
Section 3.03. Covenants which impact upon the activities of
agencies such as public utilities must be undertaken by those
agencies or, if not party to the agreement, those who control
such utilities. For example, the Municipality of huan has no
jurisdiction over connection fees.



- 80 -                      Annex 7
Page 29 of 76
Section 4.01.   The  desire  to  utilise  the  expertise  of  an
existing   institution,   rather  than  rely upon  the  unknown
quality of a new one, is understood.   Maintenance  of  accounts
and financial records in a location remote from the executive
arm of the project was  likely  to  prove  difficult.   In  the
event all the duties were discharged by UDD. This conflicted
with the original intention of retaining HB as the financial
arm of the project keeping the principal records as well as
acting as the depository of funds.
4.5.2 Loan Agreement
Few difficulties were experienced with financial or other
covenants  to  the  loan  agreement  except  insofar   as   they
reflected covenants in the Project Agreement and have been
referred to above.
4.6   Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)
A financial internal rate of return was not computed at
appraisal. Based upon the recoverable components only, the
actual internal rate of return is computed as 3.10. Details
of the flows supporting  this  calculation  are shown  in  the
Annex  IX.  Delays  referred  to  in the report have inevitably
had a detrimental impact on this return.
4.7   Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
The extant economic rate of return for the upgrading and sites
and services components was estimated at 20* at the time of
appraisal, with the site and services components yielding an
estimated   20t and  the  upgrading  components  yielding  19*.
Benefit evaluation  for  the  sites  and  services  schemes was
based upon the imputed rental values for beneficiary housing,
and on market sale prices for the comercial and larger
residential plots.  Pr,ject  costs  included  in  the  analysis
were   those   for  land  acquisition,  site  development,  site
preparation,  on-site  infrastructure,  administration,   design
and supervision, on-plot development, community facilities,
the share of off-site infrastructure allocable to the project
site, physical contingencies, and operation and maintenance.



Annex 7
- 81 -                        Page 30 of 76
The ex-post rate of return was estimated on the  same basis  as
the extant return. The ex-post economic rate of return is 13%
for the total project, and 14% and 11% for the new sites and
upgrading   components,   respectively.   In  the  case  of  the
upgrading areas, particularly, the recalculation represents a
conservative    estimate,    because    of   the   omission   of
non-quantifiable  benefits  relating  to  improved  health   and
quality of life.
The  lower  ex-post  rates  of  return  primarily reflect higher
costs  than  expected,  rather  than  lower  rental values.   A
substantial part of the increased cost was  due  to  delays  and
redesign.   In  addition,  for  sites and services schemes, land
acquisition and site preparation costs in particular were much
higher than estimated at appraisal (UDD Completion Report
section  3.6).   A major  factor  in the lower returns for both
new sites and upgrading was the underestimation of beneficiary
construction  costs.   Although  details  are  not  given in the
Staff Appraisal Report, the construction costs assumed at
appraisal were too  low.  Project  documentation  reveals  that
construction costs were estimated at JD 180 per room. More
recent estimates put the cost at closer to JD 1000.  Since  the
inflation rates assumed at appraisal were not very different
from those which actually occurred, beneficiary construction
costs were definitely underestimated.
The ex-post rates of return for the various individual sites
show, in spite of being lower than at appraisal, that the
project was economically justified. In only one site, Nuzha,
was  the  return below  what  would   normally   justify   the
investment.   In  this  case,  this  was  due  to the long delay
caused by uncertainty regarding the proposed highway.
Tables showing ERR calculations are enclosed in Annex XII of
this report.



- 82 -                          Annex 7
Page 31 of 76
5.    INSTITUTIONAL FPIRFMO CE AND DEVELOPMNT
5.1   Management and Organisational Effectiveness
Since appraisal, the borrower's management and organisational
capabilities have been continuously improving.
Following   appraisal   and   at   the    start    of    project
implementation, the newly established executing agency (UDD)
had to manage a host of operations with somewhat limited staff
resources.    Under   such   circumstances   the  staff  had  to
undertake a number of  jobs,  some  of  which  were  no   within
their  field  of   specialization.   Although this may be argued
to be a kind of training, yet it may have sometimes affected
the  quality  of  the  output.   The  close  attention  and deep
involvement of the Director General in various aspects of the
work, at this stage, have been vital.
Following the expansion of the UDD works it was imperative to
have specialized staff in various  fields  of  the work.   This
immensely    enhanced    the   management   and   organisational
effectiveness of the Department and at the same time reduced
the pressure on the Director General, making him available to
address  more  important  management   issues.    The   gradual
increase   of UDD  responsibilities  hb.3  also necessitated  a
continuous review of the Department's organisational structure
resulting   in   divisionalization  of  the  existing  structure
making the organisation more effective.
In  retrospect,  the  UDD  management  capabilities  have   been
greatly advanced through the implementation of UDP1, but not
to a sufficient level as technical assistance is still being
considered necessary in this field.
5.2   Organization Growth & Staff Recruitment
Since its establishment the UDD has been organised on a
functional   basis.    In   early  1980  it  consisted  of  five
divisions - Technical, Financial, Social Surveys, Estates, and
Administration, run by a staff of about 20 employees.
By 1984 the staff had increased to about 100 to cope with the
increasing workload undertaken by the Department as a result
of completing most upgrading works and having the S/S projects



Annex 7
- 83 -                         Page 32 of 76
under   construction.   Feasibility  studies  for  a  2nd  Urban
Project were also underway.  This  increase  in  UDD  activities
has also called for the restructuring of UDD organization; the
above five divisions were changed to directorates - Technical,
Population   Affairs,  Administration,  Financial  Affairs,  and
Estates Management.
The UDD has now a staff of about 200 distributed in 26
divisions   branching  out  from  six  directorates  which  are;
Planning  &  Design,   Supervision   &   Execution    Population
Affairs, Administration, Financial, and Estates Management &
Marketing. It has also recently formed a Project Monitoring
and Follow-up Unit (see annex VIII).
In the course of implementing its projects the UDD established
temporary offices on its sites to liaise with the contractors
and   supervision   consultants   on  one  hand  and  to  handle
beneficiaries' affairs on the  other.   Seven  offices  of  this
kind were established in UDPl.
The spread of UDD operations outside Ahman area, under UDP3,
is likely to require regional offices to be established on
more   permanent   basis  than  hitherto  existed.   A  regional
office, serving as a mini-UDD, has recently been established
in  Aqaba,  others  may  follow.   The effects of the locational
spread on the performance and efficiency of UDD organization
cannot be clearly anticipated at present and remains to be
seen  in  practice.   Despite  this,  no major  problems   were
encountered so far.
In   retrospect,  the  growth  of UDD  staff  has  led  to  the
achievement of greater  efficiency  and  experience.   According
to a special report prepared by the consultants, the UDD
technical capabilities have tremendously improved over the
period  1981-86.   While  in  1981, the  UDD  was   technically
competent in only one of 24 categories (major Rctivities)
without technical assistance, this has risen to sixteen (70S)
by 1986.
Government employment policies did not affect the growth of
UDD  staff  but  rather  affected  their  quality.   The   civil
service   system   has   two   important   characteristics;   a)
relatively low salaries compared with the private sector, and
b) more job  permanancy.   The  first  characteristic  makes  it



-84 -                         Annex 7
Page 33 of 76
difficult to attract suitably  trained staff.   However, the
second characteristic may counteract this. The net effect of
both depends on the general employment situation and job
opportunities prevailing at a particular time. Such an effect
has been variable over the project period.
5.3   Staff Training and Development
Due to the reasons mentioned above the UDD has sometimes been
forced   to  recruit  inadequately  experienced  staff  needing
urgent training.
In-house training opportunities, provided under the technical
assistance package, have been successful in this regard but
were limited to certain technical fields.
Local   training    opportunities,    involving    locally-based
institutions,   were  largely  confined to  the  administrative
field.
Efforts to train staff abroad were also limited and hampered
by the lack of adequate internal and external funds necessary
for this purpose.
Much more recently an investigation of UDD training needs has
been undertaken by the "Regional Training Center of Human
Settlements in Arab  States"  run by Habitat.   The  resulting
report highlighted the need for a) a review of the present
organisation  structure   of  the  UDD   together  with   the
preparation of job descriptions for all jobs, and b) the
establishment of a manpower training division to upgrade staff
performance.
Some of the UDD officials believe that local and external
training have no direct and clear effect on practical staff
performance but rather act to boost their morale and spirit.
Over   the   project  period  (1980-1986)  the  UDD  staff  has
increased about four times (from 40 at the end of 1980 to 170
in 1986).
Finally, but importantly is the fact that over the project
period there has been no specialized staff within the- UDD to
assess & organize the training needs of the organization.
l



- 85 -                         Annex 7
Page 34 of 76
5.4   Consultants and Institutional Development
The  consultants  (foreign  & local associates) have contributed
to the training and upgrading of technical abilities of staff
through following up day-to-day works and the preparation of
manuals. Apart from a 3 month period in 1982 they have not
conducted any major training programes/courses to improve
management and technical skills of the staff; very few and
intermittent lectures were presented by the consultants.
The consultants have also played an important and major role
in the project preparation, design, implementation, marketing,
financial control, and monitoring. The role of the consultant
in   the   initial   definition   and  improvement  of  the  UDD
organisation and its subsequent position in Government has
been   fundumental.    However,  once  established  the  ongoing
management of the Department as a whole has not been seen as a
consultancy task except for examinations on the working of
individual directorates requested by the Director General from
time to time.
5.5 The Role of Amman Municipality
In July 1980 the Urban Development Department was established
as a separate unit attached to the Municipality of Aman,
responsible  to  the  Lord Mayor.   Throughout  its  period  of
association with the Municipality it has enjoyed the support
of successive Lord Mayors. The level of autonomy granted to
it naturally led to it being regarded as separate from the
remainder  of  the  Municipality.   It was  assisted  by  other
offcials and members of the Municipality in a number of
respects including the provision of data, accommodation and
support, as well as assistance in the fields of planning
approvals and beneficiary selection. The flexibility shown by
the Municirality in approving special planning and building
regulation for UDD projects has been an important contribution
from the Municipality to the success of the project.
5.6   Government Contribution
Central Government was required, under the provisions of the
project, to provide financial resources  to  meet  the  cost  of
schools, health and other conmunity facilities and to service
that proportion of the World Bank loan relating to these and



- 86 -                          Annex 7
Page 35 of 76
other non-recoverable components.  This it  has  done.   It  has
shown   understanding   particularly   where  existing  laws  or
procedures conflicted with project objectives. It has for
example granted dispensations, where it seemed appropriate
(e.g. land registration fees, electricity and water meters'
connection   charges),   and   has   shown  flexibility  in  the
application of existing planning  legislation.   The  Government
has also provided land expeditiously and at low cost, where
possible.
The observation has been made elswhere in this report that the
Government   intervention   in  respect  of  standards  was  not
altogether timely. On the plus side it should be stated that
both political and individual satisfaction with the project
has been enbanced as a result of this intervention



- 87 -                            Annex 7
Page 36 of 76
6.    DOUSING BANK ROLE AND PRFSOBANCE
6.1   Introduction
As an existing institution  with  an  extensive branch  network
the  Housing  Bank  represented  a major asset to those charged
with  structuring  the   institutional   arrangements   of   the
project.    The  potential  benefits  to be  derived  from  its
participation, quite daside from its ability to provide a major
part   of   the  construction  finance,  were  substantial.   It
should: however, be recognized that the conditions associated
with  its  proposed  role  differed in a number of respects from
th-se  by which  it  had  until  then  operated,   particularly
financing  land  costs  and providin'  mortgages of up to 95t of
total land and construction cost.   How  well  it was  able  to
discharge   this  role,  the  successes  and  the  problems  are
discussed in the following sections.
6.2   Definition of Role
HB was required to :-
a.    Provide a credit line to UDD of some  JD  6.7 Million  in
respect of investment in land and construction costs for
recoverable components.
b.    Make funds av*ilable from its own resources  for building
loans to individual beneficiaries (JD 0.6.).
c.    Convert   constrttction   loans   to  UDD  into  long  term
beneficiary loans as sales took place and cost recover.
d.    Act as the conduit for World Bank and Government Funds.
e.    Act as  the  financial  arm  of  the  project  controlling
disbursement and the maintenance of financial records.
f.    Second a financial manager and quantity surveyor to UDD.



Anne- 7
- 88 -                           Page 37 of 76
6.3   HB as Financier
Arrangements  for  financing  the  project have generally worked
well. Such problems as did arise related either to oversights
in the original arrangements which failed to provide for
certain factors e.g. interest on construction finance, the
cost  of pre-financing,  or  literal  interpretation   of   the
wording   of   agreements,   which  in  practice  required  some
flexibility in interpretation. It should be said that where
interpretation have been required by HB they have-usually been
benefitting of an organization with shareholders interests at
heart.
6.4   Loans to Beneficiaries
HB has generally been able to cope with the processing of
beneficiary loans for both the purchase of plots a..d building
loans.
Increased demand on building material loans as a result of
allowing mwarket-plot purchasers to benefit from such loans has
also been met successfuly by the BB.
Interest rates charged to beneficiaries under such loans hav%s
also been reasonable compared to other rates prevailing in the
market.
MB loan' procedures and regulations especially in respect of
the condition of guarantor are, however, thought to have
contributed   to   the   drop-out   of   potential   beneficiary
purchasers.   The  take  up  of building  material   loans   in
upgrading areas was small and partially affected by such
regulations.
These  procedures  and  regulations  are  justified on the basis
that they are no more than prudent  financial management which
minimizes the risk of future default. While this may well be
true it is also true to say that taken as a whole i.e. vetting
by both UDD and EB, guarantors and a 5% default provision, the
package of financial measures is more stringent than might
reasonably be expected for low income beneficiaries.



Annex 7
- 89 -                        Page 38 of 76
Some of the roll-over provisions of thf loan agreement have
been difficult to administer, incorporating as they do, two
loans  at  different  interest  rates.   Retention  of  the sale
proceeds in a separate funds (sales account) until the fund
weC  sufficient  to pay  off the  total  loan  debt,  though
practically sound, was prejudicial to UDD because of the
interest rate allowed (8t). A weighted average interest rate
should have been used.
6.5   Conduit of Ftmds
At the  outset of the   roject,  Government funds wt-e sent
directly to UDD. This procedure has continued throughout the
period of the project.   With  the benefit of hindsight, this
would, in any event, appear the better solution. With the
exception of this, HB has performed its role of a conduit for
World Bank funds satisfactorily and without any undue delay.
6.6   A Financial Arm of the Project
By the time the project had been identified, HR had already
been  in  existence  for a number of years and had stsesbled  a
level of financial expertise not found elsewhere Li Jordan.
It was felt that such expertise should be tapped in support of
the project. The idea that such expertise could function at
arms length and under separ-ate management control from the
project  implementation   agency  was  not  however  wholly
realistic. In addition, thie major consultancy inputs were
attached  to UDD.  These  two factors  combined  to promote a
level of financial independence in UDD and limit the practical
interpretation of this intended role. It did, perhaps provide
a useful way of broadening the institutional base for this and
subsequent projects, however, it is felt that the roles that
evolved, generally represented the preferred position of both
HB and UDD.
6.7   Provision of Staff
HR has provided some 30 son month of financial uanagement
capability to the project meeting a proportion of the salary
costs  involved.   In  view of the difficulty experienced by UDD
in recruiting suitable financial personnel this assistance was
mush   appreciated.   No   quantity  surveying services were
provided.



Annex 7
90 -                             Page 39 of 76
7.    BANK PBRVOU4AIE
7.1   Project Justification & Objectives
The Bank's interpretation of the borrower's sector requirement
and   institutional   needs   were  correct and  reinforced  by
subsequent events such as the inability of the NC to provide
affordable housing for the low income groups or for other
agencies to implement upgrading.
The Bank's  original assessment  of  what  were   affordable
standards was justified in the sense that had subsequent
increases started from a higher base more difficulties in
serving the target group would have occurred.
7.2   Project Content and Scheduling
The scope of the project appeared to be correct and no
difficulties arose because of this.
7.3 Project Implementation and Operating Outcomes
Preparation   Requirements:   -   The    Bank's   pre-agreement
requirements were  adequate  in terms of subsequent performance
except in respect of the subsidiary loan agreement with  the  HB
which cawsed difficulties. (See details on page 9)
The' appraisal design was satisfactory and could not reasonably
have anticipated the subsequent changes in standards.
Borrower's Implementation Capacit'. - Generally the borrower's
implementation capacity was correctly assessed. The technical
assistance  tesm   and  project's  organisation   could   have
benefited from more professional Quantity Surveying assistance
for   project  preparation,    contract    docur-itation    and
forecasting.    Apart   from   this   the borrower's  technical
capacity was quickly built up and was not a restraint.
On the institutional side, the attacLoent of the UDD to AM,
(although having some advantages at the time), had somewhat
limited the relative independence enjoyed by the Department
due to its semi-financial and administrative autonomy. Thus
the lack of a special by-law governing the UDD has affected
the flexibility and efficiency of the agency.



91 -                          Annex 7
Page 40 of 76
It was indicated at the appraisal that the UDD would hand over
responsibility for sites and facilities on  completion.   Indeed
the   UDD   has  delivered  most  facilities  to  the  concerned
agencies on time except for the comunity centres which were
not handed over to the Ministry of Labour/Social Development
division. Instead the UDD established voluntary organisations
from amongst local residents to run the centres. Such a step
has proved successful and was greatly appreciated by the
beneficiaries.
UDD is also still handling  applications  for building permits
and  extensions  which  is  very  demanding of resources and was
originally intended  to be  undertaken  by  AM.  More binding
agreements   could  have been  included  and  distinction  made
between UDD and other departments in Amen Municipality.
Scheduling for Implementation of Civil Works & Procurement:-
Scheduling for implementation was optimistic and generally
tight for a newly established organisation lacking previous
experience in similar projects and insufficiently acquainted
with Bank's requirements and procedures.
Procedures for procurement were generally understood but some
confusion  arose  where   these   conflicted   with   Government
instructions.    The   project   agreement   was  not clear on
precedence in  these  matters.   On  procurement the  agreement
usually  prevailed.   In  addition  some specific clauses caused
problems of interpretation e.g. clause B of Schedule 1 of the
Project Agreement (preference for domestic manufacturers).
Operatinjg Forecasts: - Operating forecasts were basically
correct  in  respect  of the  project  agency.   However,  the
responsibilities of HB vis a vie UDD were somewhat less than
implied by the appraisal report. The participation of the IDB
was not required as there was no demand for loans in this
sector.
Bank  SuRvision:  -  The Bank's  supervision  was   generally
helpful and timely except in respect of the time taken to
respond to crucial changes in the scope of the project in July
1982.   A  mission  on  this matter did not appear until Cctober
when redesign  was  well advanced.   In  such  circumstances  a
visit other than by invitation should be possible.
Workint RelationshiR: - There was a good working relationship
between the Bank and the Borrower represented by HIB, the
Municipality of Amman, and UDD at all times.



- 92 -                          Annex 7
Page 41 of 76
The Bank's reporting requirements, (a report every 3 months),
was a useful discipline for the UDD and a useful tool for
internal management.  However,  it  strained  resources in the
early stages of the project and would have been bore clearly
understood if comeents had been forthcoming from the Bask in
relation to specific reports. The Bank has also the tendency
to defer sending comments on the reports until the time for
official missions is  due.   Also  some  of  the  information  r
quested is sometimes seen as internal Bank reporting
7.4   Implications of Project Outcomes
The Bank's most significant contribution was ir initiating the
project and in timely intiation of follow up projects; also in
introducing   the  concepts  and  allowing  credit  to  be made
available to  groups  who  would  not  otherwise  qualify.   The
involvement of the Bank in the project has also resulted in a
greater commitment on the part of the Government and the [B
and  assisted  in  the  project's  speedy  implementation.   The
establishment and emergence of the UDD as a major public
institution specialised in l-  income housing and  the widening
of the scope of other inst' -tions such as the BB, owe much to
Bank's intiatives.



Annex 7
Page 42 of 76
8.    PROJBCT MNITOUNa AND EVAWAT ION
8.1   Introduction
In view of the innovative nature of s*oe of the project
components, the impact of the project upon beneficiaries has
been monitored throughout the various stage of development to
test the response to the options available under the sites and
services and upgrading schemes.
Such monitoring has taken varic i forms, a full discussion of
which is beyond the scope of this report, but major components
are;
a.    Quarterly   rogress  reports  which  included, inter alia,
key indicators of the extent to which the project has
been or is meeting its objectives . By June 1988 about
30 progress reports had been issued.
b.    Detailed monitoring surveys on the impact of the  project
on   certain beneficiary  characteristics  (e.g.  health,
income, employment ... etc).
8.2   Monitoring Surveys in Upgrading Sites
A baseline survey was conducted  in   1980-1981  to  assess  the
population  and   health characteristics of squatter settlements
(Wahdat, Jofeh, Rimam, Nuzha, Wadi-raddadeh) before upgrading.
A Follow-Up Survey was completed in 1986, four years after
upgrading interventions on four of the above sites, to assess
the  changes  that had  taken place.   A   report  presenting
findings  of thi.' survey, with comparisons with the situation
that prevailed at the start of the project, was published in
June  1986.  The  report concluded that important improvements
have taken place in the physical environment, general well
being. and health of households residing in those areas. Such
improvements are sunarized below:-



- 94 -                        Annex 7
Page 43 of 76
a.    Dramatic  upgrading  in environmental sanitation has takenl
place over the project period on the upgraded  sites.   In
1981 hardly any household was connected to sewers; in
1985 nearly all were connected to the  mains.   Households
directly connected to municipal water mains more than
doubled over the project  period.   On  project  sites  95
percent of all households are connected to the water
mains.
b.    Families have improved their own dwellings,  using better
materials  and   adding  new   rooms,  Crowding within
dwellings has decreased.
c.    Infant mortality fell from average of 68 per  thousand  to
55  per  thousand.   Child mortality  fell  even more, by
some twenty points.
d.    The  aJiieved yearly  decrease  in  the  index  of  child
mortality was some five times higher than that expected
from the past trend of decline in child mortality for
Jordan as a whole.
e.   Boys benefited more than girls  from  the  improvement  in
life  chances.   Sex differentials in survival are marked.
If girls were given the  some  care  as boys,  one might
expect   the   level   of   infant  mortality   in  these
communities  to be  even  10   points   lower.    Similar
differences in many aspects of health care by sex were
found in the baseline as well.
f.    Households have changed their own  health  care  practices
along with the addition of new sanitary facilities. In
the baseline only 17 percent of the households were
observed  to  have soap available for handwashing near the
toilet. At the follow-up 60 percent of the households
had soap isi the toilet. A marked decrease in intestinal
parasites was detected among children and infants in the
health sample.
g.    The nutritional  status  of  infants and children has not
improved, although initially it was not poor; boys still
fare better than girls.



_ 95 -                        Annex 7
Page 44 of 76
h.      Imunization  against the major killing  childhood diseases
has not improved ever the project period: 71 percent had
completed the DPT series, 69 percent the polio and 57
percent the measles.  Of particular concern is the lack of
understanding  on  the  part of the   fmilies   about  the
importance of completing the series.
[   i.  Household  incomes have risen  from  a median  of JD 80 per
month in 1981 to a median of JD 120 per month  in  1985.  Tre
most disadvantaged  households are  bti 1 those  headed by
women. Five times as many femle as male headed households
had household incomes below JD 50 per month.
j.     Educational attainment for young women is nearly as good as
for young men;  85 percent of the girls  finish  primary
school and 90 percent of the boys. Nevertheless, only 10
percent of the economically active population is female.
k.     Total fertility remains high (7.4) and the average  length  of
breastfeeding has declined from 11.5 to 8 months .
1.     The  UDD  has  effectively  restricted  expansion  on the
upgrading sites, and there are reasons to believe that some
of the improvements noted above, correspond to a change in
the composition of the population.
8.3  Monitoring Surveys in New Sites
The first monitoring  survey  in new sites was conducted  in
December  1985  and  cosered  131 households in  Marka and
Russeifa. The survey findings gave a first account of the
residents' response  and reaction to the new housing projects.
In addition, it provided a close look at beneficiary household
incomes and the level of success in reaching the target group
the UDD originally identified. This survey, however, has some
important  limitations   due  to  its relatively small and
preliminary sample and therefore conclusions derived from it
should be treated with some caution. This report did however
provide some valuable initial indications of conditions and
activities in the sites.



- 96 -                         Annex 7
Page 45 of 76
A second and more comprehensive monitoring survey was carried
out in May 1987 and covered 497 households in Marka, Russeifa
and Quweisueh. The aims of the survey were:
a.    Determining  the  previous  living conditions of sites and
services beneficiaries.
b.    Determining    social,    economic      and     demographic
characteristics of sites and services beneficiaries.
c.    Determining   beneficiaries'   capabilities  in  expanding
their dwellings and problems faced during this process.
d.    Identifying  beneficiaries'  financial   capabilities   in
paying for their plots.
e.    Evaluating   the   problems   facing  beneficiarJes  while
dealing with BB.
f.    Measuring the extent of beneficiaries'  satisfaction  with
S & S schemes
g.   Obtaining    co ents    from    beneficiaries    On   the
appropriateness of dwelling designs.
h.   Obtaining  information   on   women's  productivity   and
effective participation in raising ho'>eholds income.
A First Report containing major findings of the survey was
prepared  in  July,  1987.   The  final report  including more
analytical processing of available data is currently under
preparation.
The following is a sunary of major findin-gs quoted in the
First Report:
a.    88t of beneficiaries from  S  &  S  schemes  have  incomes
below the 40th percentile (the upper limit of target
group income).



Annex 7
- 97 -                        Page 46 of 76
b.    About 40% of beneficiaries have  incomes below  the  loth
percentile  (the   lower  limit  of  the  target  income).
Most beneficiaries have shown good financial coeituent
to the project as only 11.7X of the are facinig problems
in their debt repayment to IB. Furthermore, about 67X
of these beneficiaries have completed construction and
occupation of at least the ground floor.
c.    86.6S  of beneficiary  household  were previously lodgers
paying an average monthly rent of JD 34.3.
d.    Despite  the  fact  that  not   all  beneficiaries   have
extended their core unit, room occupancy has decreased
from 3 - 2 person per room when compc-ison is made
between current and previous residence.
e.    most  beneficiaries  have  come from  heavily  congested
suburbs of Greater Amman.
f.    About 80% of beneficiary  households were  qualified  for
the type of plots they opted for.
g.    The   level   of dissatisfaction  with  the  location  of
project sites is very low, Only 5.4% of beneficiary
household have expressed dissatisfaction.
h.    83.3%  of beneficiary  household encouraged relatives and
others to benefit from future S & S schemes.
i.    About 81% of beneficiary households are paying  for  their
plots through HB loans over en average period of 15
years resulting in monthly installments of JD 49. 12.8%
of those beneficiaries experienced varied degrees of
difficulties in paying their monthly installment, mostly
due to a decrease in their earnings and the fluctuation
of job opportunities.
J.    A  large  proportion  of beneficiaries (63.4%) would have
preferred  a  larger  plot.   Their  plots  average  about
157m2 and stated preference  for  larger  plots  of  about
233m2,   hough  this  does  not  relate  to what they can
afford



98 -                      Annex 7
Page 47 of 76
k.    Over half the beneficiaries (56.3t) were  concerned  about
the height of their rooms and suggested an increase by
an average of 33.1c over vhe existing height.
1.    A  small  proportion  of  beneficiaries  (8.9X)  have  not
extended   their   core   Units   while   the    remaining
beneficiaries have implemented extensions of some sort
or another.
S.    93.3t of beneficiary  housebolds  suggested  an  increase
over current side setbacks to their plots . Again such
com ent does not relate to th   size  of plot  that  they
can afford.
8.4   A  Recent  Study by  World  Bank Mission Staff (between 18th to
30th January 1988)   On the Contributiod of UDP1  to  Employment
in the Construction Sector in Jordan.
The study has included surveys in the new and upgrading sites
and aimed at:-
a.    Assessing the extent  of  employment  created by  housing
construction under the project.
b.    Determining   the   skill  levels  of  those  employed  in
construction.
c.    Arriving at  an  estimate  of housing  as  an  employment
generator.
d.    Estimating  the  value  added  as a result of construction
activity .
e.    Establishing the constraints to   further  development  of
the small scale construction industry.
The analysis of the study is currently underway and findings
shall be incorporated into the World Bank's Project Completion
Report.



Annex 7
- 99 -                      Page 48 of '
8.5   Beneficiaries Participation in the Project
The target group was involved in the project at all scages and
contributed to the physical outcome of the project in the
following respects:
a. During the feasibility stage the life style of low income
families was studied by the consultant through visits to
homes  in  selected  areas.   People were  able  to express
their  preferences  during  the  course  of an  attitudinal
survey.
b. As soon as the first site was available for imples ntation
demonstration core units were erected as an example of how
the core units could be expanded to a completed two storey
house.  Potential beneficiaries  were invited to visit the
house and complete questionnaires. Partly as a result of
their co ents the plots were increased in size, from
100l2 to 150.2, room sizes were increased from about 3x3m
dimension   to  3.6x3.6m.   The  standard  of  finishes  and
materials were improved and load bearing wall construction
was replaced by reinforced concrete columns and beams.
c. During    the    course   of   advising   beneficiaries   on
construction  in  the   upgrading   areas   there   was   an
experimental  period   using   the  n De  Long method  of
Participatory Design". This enabled families to meet with
UDD architects and formulate a design for a house based on
the disposition of their belongings and the way they
wished to use the plot. This was done by use of models of
furniture and walls, and an outline of the plot. This
process was  unfortunately  limited  due   to   UDD   staff
constraints.    It  was   replaced   by   consultation  and
conventional architecture  design.  However  the   initial
period   provided   a   useful  insight  into  beneficiaries
preferences.
d. The UDD has operated design and vorwxtruction supervision
services   for  all beneficiaries  which  have  taken  into
account both individual family needs and the maintenance
of UDD development control standards.
e. Through its community development staff, the UDD continued
to offer assistance to the newly formed communities in the
new sites and existing ones in upgrading sites in order to
ensure their effective participation in the running of
their affairs. To this end, local co ittees and official



Annex 7
- 100 -                       Page 49 of 76
societies  have  been  established  in  all  sites under the
auspices of the UDD and were entrusted with the charge of
organising and running various comunity activities and
sorting  out  day  to  day problem.   Due  to   the   high
conmity  turn  up  at  such  centres  they had to be later
enlarged.
f. Monitoring surveys have been undertaken after completion
of    sites    allowing    beneficiaries   to  cornment   on
administration  design,  and  the  construction   of   their
dwellings.   These  surveys  have   Iready been discussed in
the previous paragraphs of this chapter.



-101 -                             Annex 7
Page 50 of 76
9.    CONCLUSIONS
9.1   This  review  and  evaluation has come at an appropriate time in
the project's life following the completion of all project
components   and   the   occupation  of  project  sites  by  the
beneficiaries. Furthersore, and based on the experience and
lessons gained from this project, two more projects (UDP2 &
UDP3) are currently underway.
Due to the pioneering nature of the project and the fact that
similar projects have not been implemented before in Jordan,
the project constitutes a process  of  learning by  doing.   In
this context, the issue of absolute success and failure may be
irrelevent.
9.2   Success & Failure
By appraisal standards, goals and assumptions, the project has
been  largely  successful.   The positive aspects of the project
can be summarized as follows:
- virtually completing all project components.
- development  of  appropriate,   affordable   shelter   for   a
previously unmet demand by low income households in urban
areas.
- adoption of new approaches to low cost housing, namely
upgrading, core housing, better financial  terms  for project
beneficiaries,   and   a more  comprehensive  level of  area
development, with full cost recovery including cross subsidy
from   sales   at  market  prices  for  some  residential and
commercial plots to benefit other residential plots for low
income userd.
- low level of subsidy in project implementation.
- expertise    in    selection    of    project   beneficiaries
corresponding to 10th - 40th percentile group.
- an ability to design and implement projects efficiently
using in-house staff to an increasing extent.
- the   huge   community  demand  surfaced  by  the  project  (3
applicants per plot).
- prospect of full recovery of project costs, especially at
new   sites,   due   to   the   provision   of  loans  to  the
beneficiaries by HB at reasonable conditions



-102 -                         Annex 7
Page 51 of 76
-nstitutional  development  and extension through co-operation
between the HB and UDD making housing finance available at
reasonable terms to low-income families
the  confidence  of the Bank and IB ia financing further Urban
Development Projects (UDP2 & UDP3).
the   unprecedented   rapid   development    of    sites    by
beneficiaries within a short period of initial hand over.
- Success in broadly hitting the target group.
According to the latest monitoring survey 80 -90 percent of
new sites residents have incomes below the 40th percentile
(see Annex XI ).
- the ability of UDD organization and HB to cope with the work
load , maintain momentum, and respond to changes that have
been required.
- The Government's satisfaction with the project's outcome,
reflected in its extension of UDD activities beyond Amman
area.
- the flexibility in marketing approaches and policies adopted
resulting in an early completion of sales.
- the provision of complementary social, health, vocational,
and   educational   facilities  to  projects  sites  has  been
greatly appreciated by beneficiaries.
- excellent working relationships maintained between the UDD
and beneficiaries on one side and the UDD and the concerned
municipalities,  ministries,  and  utility  agencies  on   the
other.
important    improvements   took   place   in   the   physical
environment, general well being and health of households in
upgrading areas of the project after four years of upgrading
according to the health survey completed in 1985.
The less successful aspects have been:
- cost recovery in uprading areas has presented difficulties.
- delays in project implementation mainly due to changes of
design and also initial tendering difficulties.
(the effect of these delays were not wholy negative see page
13).



Annex 7
- 103 -                      Page 52 of 76
sanitary cores provided in E. Wahdat upgrading  site  did not
give sufficient consideration to local customs and lifestyle.
They were not popular and many were eventually demolished by
beneficiaries.
demand for vacant plots has been low.
Housing Bank loan procedures and requirements  have  partially
contributed to the drop out of beneficiaries.
the  delays  in  handing  over  the  units  to  beneficiaries,
arising   from   the   length  of  period  between  initial
application and completion of units, have caused a good
proportion   of  beneficiaries   to  drop  out(l).  UDD  has
subsequently  catered  for  this by  shortening  the  period
between applications and hand over of units to few months
(2-3 months).
- the slow withdrawal of UDD involvement from project areas,
especially in upgrading areas, resulting in higher overhead
costs than originally envisaged.
- low  rate  of building materials  loan   take   up  amongst
beneficiaries, especially in upgrading areas. This may be
due to the fact that beneficiaries are generally reluctant
to assume liability for a second loan over and above their
mortgage loan.
- no extension of the concepts independently of World Bank
initiatives.
9.3   Lessons Tearnt
As  a  result of project  implementation numerous and valuable
lessons were learnt and utilized, wherever possible, for the
project in question and also for subsequent projects. The
following is a list of important lessons gained.
9.3.1 General
- The clear understanding of urban development concepts by
beneficiaries,   especially   in  upgrading   areas,  is   a
pre-requisite to the successful implementation of any urban
development project.
(1) A study conducted in early 1987 on a sample of 118
beneficiaries who declined to contact UDD after their
names were advertised in local newspapers.



Annex 7
- 104 -                      Page 53 of 76
- The extensiveness of services and facilities provided in
urban projects is an important attraction to beneficiaries.
- The need to allow generous allowances at feasibility and
appraisal stage in respect to the lead in time to a first
project construction, if the aim is to provide a practial
rather than theoretical programe and disbursement schedule.
i
- Conceptual misunderstanding, and the need  to  involve  bodies
previously  un-acquainted  with the nature of the project, led
to a slow start before necessary agreements could be reached.
- Alternatively a period of longer and wider education by the
BanIk in the borrowing country prior to the introduction of
new development concepts may have reduced the post loan
delay.
- The   need   to   recognize  the  influence  of official  and
beneficiaries praference in terms of the physical provision
leading to a trend away from lowest cost solutions in the
direction  of what are  seen  as  the  minimum   acceptable
municipal standards.
- The   extent   to   which  residents  of the   unconsolidated
upgrading  areas  were   prepared   to   demolish   dwellings,
re-arrange boundaries and construct conventional houses was
unexpected and was a lesson for subsequent projects.
- In  physical  terms  the  use  of   steep   slopes,   although
attractive in terms of land cost, has led to difficulties of
marketing and may point towards a more detailed evaluation
of the cost of site preparation vis a vis land cost on steep
sites. However this is difficult to tackle without a policy
of residual land valuation which is absent in Jordan.
- To establish standards it is desirable for UDD to handle the
initial building permits and to hand over to municipalities
for the subsequent extensions (second floor) but binding
agreements are necessary for municipalities to take over at
an appropriate time.
- To ensure that site facilities are primarily utilised to the
benefit of UDD residents, it is thought that more binding
agreements to this effect with the concerned agencies, such
as the Ministry of Education, are necessary.



-105 -                          Annex 7
Page 54 of 76
9.3.2 Standards
- Plot Size
Under UDP1 typical beneficiary plots of 150.2 and market
plots  of  200.2 were  provided.   Consideration of marketing
results, beneficiaries' preference, and affordability levjls
have called for the provision of a wider range of plot sizes
(100 - 300.2  under UDP2).   Thu5  under  UDP2  accomodation
requirements were allowed to deterwine the size and form of
various  plot  options,  rather   than   accomodation   being
determined by arbitrary decisions over pl t size and form.
- On Plot Accommodation
Indications from UDP1 suggest a strong preference for a
start-up level of accommodation of one or two rooms, a
kitchen  and bathroom.  However,  affordability  tests  show
some   difficulty   in   providing   this   level of  initial
accommodation for a significant proportion of beneficiaries
(20  -  30S  of beneficiaries).   It  is  thus recomended to
maintain  the  overall present  percentage   of  plot  with
development (70X of beneficiary plots) and not to aim for a
higher percentage of vacant plots.
Regretably under UDP2, the proportion of vacant  plots  has,  as
a  World  Bank  requirement,  been  increased  at the expense of
core units, a step which may considerably delay marketing and
affect beneficiaries' response to the project.
The provision of a kitchen under UDP2 and the modification of
the sanitary core into a bathroom placed within the core-unit
(and   not   outside   as   under  UDPl), are  also  important
improvements made in  response  to  experience  already  gained.
With  this  level  of initial accomrodation a family can readily
move to the unit without  carrying  out  immediate  construction
work.
- Community Facilities
Schools:  Consideration   of   official  policy  required  the
separation   of  boys   and   girls   schools   and
associated  sports  facilities.   This  was  carried
out  in  only  one  site  in  UDPI   (N.   Ruseifa).
Subsequent  projects  are expected to cater for this
situation wherever necessary.



- 106 -                    Annex 7
Page 55 of 76
Comercial
facili-   (Shops, workshops, coreshops).  Core-shops & shops
ties:     were very popular under the project  and made  good
contribution to cost recovery and cross subsidy of
other  project  components.   Workshops  were   less
popular. The reasons for this are uncertain.
Comunity
Centers:    Centers  provided  under  UDP1 have proved to be too
small  for  all  the   demands   made   upon   them.
Extension of such centers is currently underway.
Under UDP2 an increase of 60 percent over the UDP1
standards shall be implemented.
Kindergarten:
Increased community demand for this unprovided
facility has been  encountered.   The  provision  of
larger co-munity centers under UDP2 is intended
inter alia, to satisfy this need.
Emergency
Centers:    In response to the request from  the  Civil Defence
Department,   emergency   centers  not  included  in
UDP1, shall be provided in UDP2 & UDP3 wherever
necessary.   Such  centers shall be expected to cope
with demand of both UDP1 & UDP2 sites due to their
close proximity.
Play
Fields:     Were  not  provided under UDP1 and shall be provided
under UDP2 in one site only.   Attempts  to  utilize
schools' facilities have not so far succeeded. It
is recousended to provide vacant land for this
purpose wherever possible under future projects.
Women
Training
Center:     Appear   to   be   very   successful   in  terms  of
attendence.   Job  creation, however,  is  limited.
The Vocational training Corporation has not been
involved   in   either   trying  to  find  work  for
graduates or helping them  develop  markets.   While
such centers continue to provide ideal seed beds
for   co-operative   development,   the   issue   of
post-training employment remains to be solved.



Annex 7
- 107 -                         Page 56 of 76
(Annex I}
UDPI PROJECT COMPLRTION DATES
PLANNED & ACTUAL
COMPLETION DATES
SITE           APPRAISAL  CONTRACT            MAIN REASONS FOR D LAY
MARKA            9/84        8/85     10/85   Redesign
RUSEIFA          9/84        9/85      6/86   Redesign & Contractors
QUWEISNEH        3/84        3/86      4/86   Retendering & Redesign
E. WAHDAT       12/82        6/84      6/84   Retendering & Redesign
W. RIMAM         9/83        2/84      2/84          -
JOFEH           12/83        1/84      1/84
NUZHA           12/83       12/8F      6/87   Road proposals and
site problem
Wadi Haddadah   12/83       Cancelled due to a new highway proposals



owllt I                                                                                          OEALLJ.     COST ESJbtTE
lCIWARI5SN 8T7E1N 0ACTUAL  APPMAIA  )
M~. OmO                                                           Annex  II
IMINJs            amm           N."SS11,11       I I  iou.          xii ml ow          M"t               ml1 SM tiWd     WIN4           303053  lilL.   !0s. "Dom
W?SmL   AP10131. *CT.   wafl9*it  am5.10*11   05 W              P1*1 OK 01mul .  093*1*4 30783.  0'K '425*4 301850   091*811 4cm    091*1*4 3013.  090*131 KM73   mmis
LU     IS.1011 1s1       2,144.0  I,'S.   1,247.0  709.5   os.o         0.0   3,0.0  1,341.2    63.0   12t.7    254.0   53.5    257.0    ".3    2M.0   59.5  1,42.0  1,440.   5,24.  3,2U.S
L.SllE 9tlDlt              25.3    44.5    114.4   25.3   424.9        30.0    314.3   100.3        4.9      4.5     25.5    47.9      3.0    14.9       I4.3    43.3      30.7   112.S      15.5   22.11
1.01-411E llflUCISUlR     34.7   411.2    307.1    20   SL3    341.1   1 ,47.2  ,0381.1    M.4   139.4    102.3             0.4    115.0       U5       1.5    73J     497.2   343.5  2,111.4  1,35.4
.olf-sllE IN4l5t051CtIEM   233.8    4.0    504.3   12.7   132.1         0.5      410.7   84.2       4.        0      533.4    3.3      45.1       0      0.0    50.5   1S.,    59.3    63.7   209.0
-E.0e PLO ,E4Ot1Ellt1  5,51.4  1,242.5         57.3  701.5  1,032.4    902.0   3,4.3  2,32.0    341.0   26sn.9         0.0    25.7       0.0    40.2       0.0       e    38.0   s33.6  3,30.2  3,133.1
0..  SIAIAKSLow 0          U.1   544.0    333.9   2a1.6   270.3    335.9    5340.0 1,220.3          0.8    S3.J       0.0    54.3        .o     4.3       .      54.3    40.1   324.1   ,X3.0  1,547.0
AS KvinN  b                                                                                                                                                                                                            0os 
&IItEV.51t10.5E3V
Ws I  30s5                 1543.3    59.0     2.4   3.1    34.1        5.0      207.0   140.3      03.3    23.3       0.0              0.0        0      0.0       0    113.3    23.3    311.2   110.I
3.558 WIUt5S115                              69.5                                                                                                                                          #I?.5
m.amiffJ9 P71  LtES      1.00.WO   n74.3      53.7  4*.9 15,57.3    b4.7   2,375.5  1,3.4    50e.4    22.6    40.7    D7.3             1.1      4.4     22.9    23.1    254.   210.1  3,52.4 2,e23.5
5.01111C590s.ni   [gulp0 10 10 5.0             5.0            40.0.0                                                                                                                             0 55.0
*.Hssm & Ul3sle            303.0  I59.1    171.0  113.5   213.0    155.0         .2.    455.1      n.0    34.3       50.0     9.       59e.0   15.3     12.0     I.3    5l8.0    01.5    3ll.0   522.4
.9UE1T llttEllt           550.0   229.2    300.0  5u.9   3513.0    52.9  15223.9e   4.0    150.e0    4.6            44.0    18.2     55.0    31.1      30.0    24.6    27.0   543.5  1,W. e          39.5
L.11E11t1K l 4SSISWt      13.0                9.0           121.0                                 39.0              9.0              l1.0               2.0                               444.0   35.0
t1 10.5E mg051          #,W0.3 4,08.5  5,075.3 2,71.0  4751.4  2,1)4. 84. 10,5.2  5,955.0  ,445.3                   41.   631.4   05.9    32.7   03.1  3,35n 2,91.  21,2.336.4
* MssICL C INCI8             0.0   27.3        3.0  84.7      0.0    219.1        0.0   443.2        0    13.6         0    27.7         *    24.1    3.531    32.1        3.3   840.4       3.5   U23.
*0 Plsaitt llo.tis           L.0 15,45.9      0.0  55.7       0.0    59.0         0.0 2,207.4         0   522.1        0    21.4         a    43.5         a      75       6.0   233.0       9.0 2,40.4
V0IAL* 9302L.111              3 ,01.2  5,011.3 3,554.4 4,751.4  3,54.2  14,671.0 104 1.3  1,91.0  541.7    5417.0   44L5              2.    7142.2    34.2   590.3  3,364.3  3,423.2  21,249.4 17,3O0.0
OQ~
M7 M
*      3051 ICE UOTIEUKIES IRE ISLUtEO 10 Ztl1t MI51 FI55, E1UD1Ill mIsz
I 1lE FlCUltES l1E1  ME K5I850 To March 8BON4 0tflult  To10 tlE  .II    OF iuBI MIO.
0



Annex 7
- 109 -                        Page 58 of 76
(ADMiX III)
JOUAI E4N  DIWRUN  PAWUCT
SINM4T COST
APPRAISAL           ACTUAL   VARIANCE
JD'000   USS          JD'000   JD'OOO
1.  Land Acquisition           3,286.8   11,142.3     5,268.0  1,981.2
2. Sites and Services
Quweismeh                2,696.5    9,141.1     4,800.8  2,104.3
Marka                    1,679.4    5,693.2     2,499.8    820.4
Ruseifa                  2,203.4    7,469.5     3,589.4  1,386.0
UDD Buildings              -           -          689.5    689.5
3. Upgrading
East Wahdat                491.1    1,664.8    1,017.0     525.9
Jofeh                      218.6      741.1      222.0        3.4
Rims                       207.9      704.8      283.6       75.7
Haddadah/Nuzha             251.9      854.0       40.7    (211.3)
4. Assistance-Small
Business                     973.3    3,299.5        0.0    (973.3)
5.  Mhnicipal Service 8quip.     150.0      508.5       80.0    ( 70.0)
6.  Technical Assistance         365.0    1,237.4      444.0       79.0
7.  Design and Supervision       522.6    1,771.6      811.0      288.4
8.  Project NaMbge.ent           639.5    2167.9    1.500.0       860.5
SUB TOTAL                 13,686.0   46,395.7   21,245.8   7,559.8
9.  Physical Contingencies       823.6    2,792.0        3.5  ( 820.1)
10. Price Contingencies        2,490.4    8,442.5        0.0  (2,490.4)
TOTAL PROJBCT COST      17.000.0   57.6!0.2   21,29.   4. 249.4



WItlRK   or in PROCIU  or 7311                                                  (A        IV)
The table below sets f6rth the categories of item to be financed for actually financed or actually financed
out of the proceeds of the loon, the allocation of the amunts of the loan to each category end the percentage of expenditures in each category:
APPRAISAL              :     AI#DSNT0 APPRAISAL                     :L                              SMA
AN:IRWT OF THE lOJU  : IPzWOs OF         ANUDIW  OF :I       PIIICIAGS 0J  :  AMOU  OF TIM :    PYtC1A6 or:
ALOCATED (3XP33S5   s  EPNDMItRRSS   !ALLOCATE  (EXPRZSSSO    1P3N5DtSU       ALWCA?O (EXPRUEO   *PUWHURSS
CAIDOORY  I IN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tTW:ALCAE(C 0EXI
1. Works                 9.500,000       38t                     12,800,000      50*                    7.541,312       3at            35* increase over
6,258.688      50             appraisal expectation
2. Building mterial       1,750,000       50* of mount             1,750,000     As appraisal           1,T50,U00       As appraisal
loa  by US                              disbursd
3. Smll business           260,000       60* of mount               250,000      As apprmisal             250,000       As appraisal
construction loon                        disbursed
mae by I
4. Smll businese           450,000       60S  of mount              000.000                               000,W                        Cancelled in March
development loans                        disbursed                                                                                  1987 because of the
made by ID3                                                                                                                         abmomm of demand.
S. Goods                 2.250,000        100* of foreign         2,250,000      As appraisal           2,250.000       Au appraisal
expenditures for
imported goods
100* of local
expenditure  *r-
factory for good
manufactured
locally
6. Consultnts'           4,000,000        100*                    3,500,000      As appraisal           3,500,000       As apprateal   $500,000 wae
services, technical                                                                                                                 tr n forred to item
assistance & training                                                                                                               NO  1.
7. Unallocated            2A8QO9OOO                              Tt!rEn3Irrd to item No.(l)             Trenanfrrad to item No.(l)
TOTAL         21,000,000                               20,550,000                            20,560,000                                                   0Q 
0
____  __.  _____ -_______ - -- _- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ en X~0



Annex 7
- 111 -                      Page 60 of 76
( ANNEX V)I
SUMMARY FINANCIAL PLAN
APPRAISAL VERSUS (ACTUAL)
JD' Millions
Source of Finance                        &p0raisal      Actual
Government of Jordan                        3.5          (5.7)
IRDn                                       6.2           (7.1)
Housing Bank                                7.3          (7.4)
Internally Generated Funds                  -            if.l)
Total                                      17.0         (21.3)
ADplication
Small Business Loans                             0.25        (-  )
Building Material Loans                     1.15        ( 1.4)
Civil Works
Residential                                 9.80        (14.5)
Commercial                                  0.45
Administrative                              -           (0.5)
Community Facilities Of-
Site Works etc.                          4.98         (4.5)
Technical Assistance                       0.37         5Q i}
Total                                      17.00        (21.3)



(Annex VI)
DiPD    1 LOAN NDISB S.ERSEM E_I\_T
21LOA.N iJ.. 1 8973 JO)
21-                                                                         - ___ 
20 
19 --
1 6
15
1 4-
15                                                        9
1.                                                 / 7.38481   ,   Gv8 
I12
1 0
U,'~~~~~~~~~~~               E -
71A  '?..  :EG.-'.  ...+ i-ET t:/
5
8 1           8     . 3     84-       65                 87                               0'8
.i   F. p PA~ I S        -    *A CiT IJ. L.



20.8X
(46E8 OF LOANS)
(1)         (2)            (3)          (4)            (6)        (6)        (7)      (8) a    9)    (10)      (11)    (12)
43DTNLY    PA1)EW   __
APPROVED    DOWNPAvIENT    IN GRACE      PAPnt          D1 s ?D3                                                                    ACTION
JIIL.    . .ACEI!i          eEelIQD    e6BlQLIE0&       ..A..       Li.    ai.    Lie. 3      je.X   Lu.    Lin    Lme..          i YIJ
abrha:                 543           543            4^          494             449        30       6         2        2       2               3
11. suo it*:           704           709            62          ad?            604         25                 7 1     1               _
Q0ae.ieaub:           1121          1121           361          760            659         71      15         6       6        I      1        2
________________                                       ____________.________                                                                                                     LW
iamtVahdat:            384           384                        384            323        22       11                  1     5       1       18
WadL aRlm:              82            82            -            92            64          17      -          -       -       -                -
_ __ ___ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----- -    _- ___--  -  _ ______
Jote:h                  12            12            -            12            11           -      -          _       I       _      _         _
IlbaM:                   2             2            1             1             1          _       _          _       _       _      _        _
hd.: (S).(4).2
(5).(6).(7)+40)+(9)4(1O)*(11)*(12)3(4)                                                                                                                               t 
I.P.   Yb. date abo_m reform to all loom _arded to UDD boneficieriee                                                     t0
by H.B. till 30.8.1967.                                                                                                                                                 X
0'



AIlItINISTRATION IIRM:TORATE                                 ___                                                                                      '55
CIIAIRHIAN OF
IOARII OF' DRF.ClORS
|SULTANTS 3                                                  OIRPOftl       I      1               ....|  . -  .-.... ..... ..........  IXUAAI.DVIStMt
w"inva   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~tlIMIORNINO
S=CRTARY    _I" at U%tjpn4 nly
SWeRVtSI3I  *         IIAtiNINGO *       IUPOIATtON AFFAIRS                           ESTAT IENM4CS                            AUMINIstJIr
_   XECW11oN           DesKN               DtRBC1RATI                            MANAOPMrMT& h,nACm  AUro_tAl                                  _
DIRECTOtATE    .   DORECrAOFF   M.AR e:nNaA                                                                                                                    1
SUt'P.RVItS WOP      ARCMUT11lURP &          M!MOORAnC                              IANDAQ4JSHN   A| Mn Nlma t|R| tFN.
_ TSTRUCToN      _      tUWNINttU          stI D0eS DIVISION                           DIVISION          I     iSIII                 IXVNN
DIVISION              DIVISION
7                     4                                                              I  tO
DtljNNO           C1VN.P.LKONOMF.RING  UPNWlICARY AFPAIRS                          nRNISJNIIARY            IMNANWAI.          RhIBISTRAF
FIUmITS               OIWSION               DIVISION                                SPIJJ.CItoN          ANAI.YSL A           a sTRUvUlE
DIivlsIN   *IXtvl.4                                                                  IN VISION        AIn f 11WI D3IVISKON
a                     I I                   54                                                                                   S9
U                     62
timDIN c|   TRNDP.RINO                     CIt7MMUNnY                                ODANS
CO)NTR0L              DIVOICSIN           IP.VEIAWMW|                                1V1 VISVON 
DIVISION                                    DMSION                                                                                                       
to                    4                      2S 
0
SURVeYING              STUDY a                                                         SALES5
DINVISIO             RISP.ARCII                                                     DIVISION
DXIVSION
14                    S                                                             3
UDD ORGANIZATIONAL ChIART                                                              TlAl. NISMI t1 2SAtl = 20



A,NNEXTX
FINANCING COSTS.  {EXCL l.1.6)  -  RECOVERABLE ELEMENTS   JD 1000
1981     1982      1983      1984     1.9R5     19R6      1987    .lvjri R8  TOTAT,
QUWEISMEH                  15,88    217         RO      16f31    1289       810        89      11R       5822
RUSEIFA                     44       36i        40       923      982       340       229      1q'1      27r0
MARKA                        44      36        883       860     6f57       126f       3]        51      2688
E. WAHDAT                   570      13        579       324       100       87        50         fi     172!)
RIMAM                         4     259        161        31       24        17         1         1       498
JOFEII                       4      117        215        82       32        93         1         1       475
NIIZHA                                -        257        41       32        23        12       1]        376
2254     678       2215      3892     3116      1426       410      347      14338
INCOME (A ESA)
OIWFRISMERi                  -                                    632      2351      2n09      379       5571
RUSEIFA                      -       -         -          74     1022      1072       733      373       3274
MARKA                        --      -                   208     1444       866       3fi4     32;       31o08
E. WAHDAT                    -       -         -         511      551       440      2TV       32       2080
RIMAM                                -                   161       142      132       5'3       1141      602
JOFEH                                                     26       98       129        70        fi3      388
NUZHA                        -       -         -          -          1       79       103       141       32'1
-         3982    3890     5069      3787      1619      15347
--------------   -------------------------                          -       -      -                4- ~j
NET INFLOW/                (225.1)   (678)    (221n)   (2910)    774       3643      3377     127!       1009                  o
(OUT FLOW)                 ______--___       --__ --_ --_      --___RR  3. 1 .0
o-



(AlIt lux)
Asl    X)
NO. OF RESIDENTIAL & COMMERCIAL PLOTS                      Table: E-3
T
Y    A          B            C       D          H          SHOPS    COM      WORKSHOPS       TOTAL
SITES        P            Bl    B2                      BUILT   VACANT           PLOTS   BUILT   VACANT
E                                          UP                                UP
-_-_____ -__ -__ -__ -__ -__ -__ -__ ---__-__-__-__- -_  - __ _ __ _  __   ------           - __  - -__  __ _ __ _ _ -_____-E_
MARKA             174    109    90       189      97      8         13     22       6      10        3      721
NORTH RUSEIFA    119    133   122        224     273    10         0       30       7      16        1      935
---------------------
QUWEISMEH        256    259    92        302     273    16        11       54       1      16       3      1283
EAST WAIIAT       0        7    0          4     502      1       10       58      1       24       3       610
  ------    ----- - --               - --        
WADI RIMAM         0       0    0          0     221      0       21        0      10       0       0       252
----   ----------------    -                            --------------
JOFEH              0       0    0          0     192      0       24        0       L       0       0       217
NUZHA              0       0    0          0     136      0        11       0      10       0       0       157
-  -----------------------------                          --------- --------                                                       
TOTAL            549    508   304        719     1694   35        90       164    36       66      10      4175               0
-------- ---- - -----  ---- -                                                                                                  0
9-h



mum . . 
(Awlxii^ XI)
GREATER AMMAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME AS COMPARED TO THE ACTUAL
INCOME OF DWP1 S & S BENEFICIARIES
100                                                                                                   _
95% ----------
90     93% ----------
70                              7, _
O                                                                                 r- r~~s~~I *~4uQ  
~~~~~~~MI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ r
60                                                     I M D
50
Ld
40   -)2
30                                               '
20
10 
________            __--_--------                         -
-O
0 Housing Strategy            +  Marka                    Ruseifa              '3> Quweismeh



-118                                                Annex 7
Page 67 of 76
jtrsc Urban Develooment                                                        (Annex  XII)
Jordan lrse Urban Develooment Proiect                                                         Page  1 of 3
'ecalculated Economic Rates of Return
Jotdan First ,rbas  .ve-!omt Praotct  Ec:aIec Rate Of RIturi
Year:       18   l"I          1"12      1913      1914      14915     19%6       a'7     :         :39       :-         a       i;
4. Site and Service.
a.    Costs.
Lufd iemistoin                                0      1149       664      135S       92         0         0         0         0         0        j
Civil otkS lUll)                              0         5        21       440     1137      1294       613       211       121         0         )        7
on-plot develoeat ltbufictiels,               0         0         0         0       17      &59      1713      3063      3268      2163      3:4         I
Design and saprvil.ne                        34       115        30        97       31        59        80        14         9         0        3         0         1
Project eanagent                              0        IS       124       110        S5      oO        77        53       122                   I
Operation VW euateeace                        0         0         0         1        12      ,44        93       131       234       316      372       :3S       :S&
Total costs                               34      1357      341      200t      1503      223k      2577      3513     ;7n3      2482       906        36       :?S
b .    Benefts.
Rental valute 04 noli tuine; l5,C1            0         0         0         0       64       293       763      1387      1971      2347      :.z      1:5        lj
Rental value of  et shops                     0         0         0         0         0       1t        84       119       125       125      1u5         :5       1:5
tarket value Of Aplots                        0         0         0         0       102      981      1713      1330       455       497         )         3         '
Market value of shpe,merkshlops,etc.          0         0         0         0         0       47       244       247       182        li         o 
Market saln  of comerial tracts.              0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0       960         0         .I        0
Total buiits                               0         0         0        0       1et      1345      2103      3083      3693      2992       557      2W57      :MS7
Net benefits                       -34    -1357       -841    -200W    -1V8         -911      227      -430       -61       310        e51     2171      .!1I
ERR FOR SITES AND SERVICES                   0.137199
8. Up,radang sate
a.    Cots.
Landacquisittioan                              0     1368         0         0         0         0        S          0        0         0          
Civil ewks IUl*)                               0        2         9       147       764      3S         31        58         9         0        0
On-plot developut (bmao ciariul               0         0        47       170      614      107S      1117       897       524       117       9o        45
Desgn and supervion                           2         8         2         7        32       11       3S          2         0         0        0
Project  an4ae.t                               0        a        12        10        90       61        23          6       13         0        0         0
Operation and seantaace                       0         0         0         2        It      533        8        120       149       165      169       I          :
Total costs                                2      138         70      333      1511      1245      1302      1084       694       282      :48      2:3
.    Benefits.
Incr. rental value of existing rmos           0         0         7        59       74        72        76        7S        91        41       91        1
Rental value of dditional rnca                0         0         0        10        96      263       464       628       729       736      t1 O       "        -
Rental val. of shops, etc.                     0        0         0         a        54       iS       187        75       628        15       Is
Narket value of serviced tracts                0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0       427       140         I
Total tsifits                              0         0        IS       193      340       667       761      1185      1614      1015      e93         e         :-
Net btentts                          -2    -1384       -53      -140    -IIC       -578      -541       101      '20        :2      b;s       ,1        :
ERR FOR UPGRADING SITES                         0.1138
C. Total Project
a.    Cests.
Land acqutsittw                               0      2517       666      1358        92         0         a         0        0         0        0
Civil earks 1U11l                             0         7        30       387      1901      1330      645       290        129        0        3
On-plot developet lb,etficratsnl               0        0        47       170       782     1735      2830      3960    3S1        ::St      &1         '5
DCsign and supervsin                         36       123        32       103        t3       71       117        14         9         .        O
Project  anaqtent                             0        96       136       120       155      268       100         60      135         0        0
Operation and eanteanice                      0         0         0         2        23       97       179       272       313       481      -41       33 
Total cost,                               36      2743       911     2341      3014      3500      3879      4597      4448      2764    !1!4        :
b.    Benefits.
Froe sites and svces                           0        0         0         0       166      1343     2903      3083      .69S      .992    :.7        :         :7
From upqradiq                                  0        0        t8       195       itO      667        761     1193       1614     15IS      3a83      io
Total benefits                             0         0        IS       195      506      2012      3564      4268      5307      4006      440      :443      :"
Not bteee4ts                        -:6    -2743      -893    -2144    -2508    -1488         -314      -329       860      1242    2:86      :342      :
ERR FOR TOTAL PROJECT                           0. 1301



Annex 7
- 119 -                                                         Page 68 of 76
(Annex XII')
Page 2 of 3
Recalculated Econouic Rates of Return
Siteis and Services Ares
.nfog : ra fntt wr:d), fl .::emn  PeoI,Ct: 10EcG*V     Rate of  aturn
',,a':    \M        till      19        413i    514        1915     194        91       1959      5'1i  * sn~        mel      1fl2
a.l totst.
.ano  acnusutio                       snfl4                              515
Ctiil  eatls (059)                                      I        5       145       304      359        51        13        57
In-plot dev.olomet (1enfic:urinCs)                                                 56       370       US        sit      33        154
ltaann and suopenielon                        I       27         7        S3         7       13        19         9         I
Project eanaqosent                                     26       37        32        15       53        21        42        2?
tieration  am ealntefnlet                               0        0         0         4       IS        St       54        14        94       II        11        II
Totel costs                               I       JN9       26        III      391       914      976       929       tit       22s       ss        is        Be
i~ ~ ~~5 b             nelwtt.
* ntal value of ne  housngr 115C,O)                                               t4       16        32?       474      53        559       t9       559       559
Zo        vat *lue o4 totZhers)I.                                                           IS        15       57         39       39        39       37        39
market sllc o 4 o    l4ts                                                         l02       ISt 4v              2"         A
Mavk,t   ll 0d  sho, wotshops                                                                *2        5t        74        12
market tales d4 cososcal tracts.                                                                                         5t2
Total benofits                             0                  0         0      la        414      I52       We       11tt       S97       97       UI        54
Noet benefits                       -S      -392      -221     -its      -231      -400     -12t       -50       1i5    235         50S       509       50S
Econeelc Rate of RIturn lfor Ibf          0.5
2. 0UIIEISEII1
C. Costs.
LUnd acquisition                                      654      361       119        e2
Citvi  wotrs 10055                                      2       10       156       57       e         391        51        20
o-pnlot  sovelopmnt lbmescitrt")                                                            146       534      13t2      14       1337       1l1
lOstun and  roeurislon                       1i        51       IS        4S        S1       2t        4f         3
Project aaguannt                                       37       52        43        29       S7        36         E        64
operation and emintenance                               0        0         0         4       U1        so       6i        91       144      t?l       too       to0
Total costs                               15      774       436      963       714       913      1*47     1495      2064      1tOI       93       ISO      ISO
T           ~~~~b.Imefu4ts
Rental valou  o  nef ftnusit p ll,C,D0                                               0       4        m        574       944      1190     U2l       M2I       1212
Rental vlun oJ cortihops.                                                                              14 2u               5t       SS       3S        St
w             "urk ~~litit Utnc  o4 A-plot%                                                                 h1      t5        7"*      1Ut        0I1
tE rtet Ws e of shtom  awks?tps.                                                                      ls5       143       95 
Market   les of coamrcitl tracts.                                                                                        260
total benefits                             0        0         0         0        a       139      1296      1563     1713      1719     ) 43      1263      1243
met beneiIts                       -15      -74      -46       -963      -714     -774       249        65      -291      237       049     JH?       1063
Economic Rate ef Return fgr bustisgeb 0.1300
3. RUSlStI
A.    Costs.
Land AcoulittiOn                                      124      126       126
C     wist ortS  (U010                                  2        *       139       S5t      S10       1?1       167       1'.
n-;plot e#e[to0s9nt  benfacaraes)                                                           163       326       E11      1021      672       458
Design and  apervisiOn                       11        37       lO       3S         IS       19        i 1                  I
Project anampsent                             O        2$       55        i3        21       44        20         S       29
Operatica  and alUnteeanto                              0                 0         4       I3        24        3        4S       Rq        St?      II        it?
1ota. cOsts                               11      190       177      3Is       S93       529       554      10t9     1205       b2:      375                 j s:'
5.    Iene4itn.
Rental *alne of nh bouw  sir                                                         0       57       IS       517       495      344      bil      6cr       bbZ
Rental Valuo of corChops.                                                                     6        55        55        55                .S        .5
Market   ets 0* A-plot&                                                                     n2        *}5       238         5
Market value of ships,trkbps,tc.                                                                       31        3*        74       24
trtit sales of coercial tracts.                                                                                           161
Total benefits                            0         0         0         0        0        92        25S     642       "m        676      717      717       717
Wet tcoefuts                       -11      -190      -571     -330      -m31       263      102      -446      -408       -as     192       coo       bOo
Ecanaa  Rgate  4 Retiurn ftr Rustifa    0.1566



-120-                                                        Annex 7
Pane 69 of 76
2ac3 iz-z_ed  --c:momic ?aes if                                                             ( Annex   XII                       '
' DeradlInz Areas                                                           Page   3  of  31
*.    .0111.
aoi 4111111t10@                           0~~~~~22
CL     .i , srtz UO1)                                     2         4        134      521         S          1        45         5
-  r tlot OsselaimI  l-ffciWO I tm                                           0        33 SSt        Wc *r1          35        303       114        l;        45         *
404 0e3 rotIao* I                                 4         1                   ?7         3        23
0 Ct iao4s.t                                              S         5         4         51        40         4         2         2
70rOiti2m I'd e0 tence                                    0         0         2         t         It        55         s        iI I      :S        :        1:2
':tal costs                                  I        1         5        231       *44       7        1021       09         421       2;7        .         s         !2
.:cr. rental .lu       of e.istaqr   ru                                       4 *        2         1         I         1         I          I        I          I
*  tal  aIte of aEitetiol rom                                                79        14        341       493       51        sty       41        ,.I       o1        ,::
*iriet Value of t@0 uoo   ot1bo9.                                            44         O0       In         44       31S
darset  jlig  of  wtrlcid tracts
*11t 1benefts                               0          0        IL       129       244       52t       554       "I          9        411       ,..       *22       ::
met benefits                           1      -4e1       -U       -102      -70I       -274      .447       -40       -23       VI        All       444       4'7
Econoeic Pati of 4tgto Utr E. aIMtA 0.111t
2. s:soa
C. Costs.
LAnd icqutOitiofi                                       252
C1.a1  orks IUttl                                         0         2                  I IS3       0         0
3n.plot do,el tmt  bnofcflurin)                                               14        hi       201       14,        21        1I          4
3e,o       and l pter vlloo                               2         0          1         1         2         5          0
Project eaoaqnmt                                          I         2          2        is        12         4          I         I
Optation amt *intfnlitC                                   0         0          0         I         1        13         to       It         19       19         19        19
tOtal cots                                   0       255         4        24       211       221       I"5         40        ;5        23         t        19        19
I.    haefo.t,.
:ncr. rental Value of an tiq  n4 r 1S                               4        34        42        42         42        42        42        42        42        42        42
'entol        of1 40 iliti@o41 fOO*                                            2        It        39        41        44         41        by       of        47         47
*JIt    ofl.    m aps,   grsat.                                                                                                 Soo
*ith4t   il., of i*rv  Cto tracts                                                                                               10        140
fatal 0ti4its                                0         0         4        3         5S3        1        104       10t       i3        250       110       110       110
Not benefits                           0      -255        -0         10      -155      -14 U        3        hi       554        227       91        9          91
Econoglc Rate of I.t.t. ft rim              M.1572
C. Cast.
Lao icqolsition                                         239                                                  0
C1.d  uotlos lUt5I                                                   I         *       ltt         I         0
Cn-plot desIlopU.t lbaatOsClzw"                                               31       IU        12S        14         t         5
.stqn and 4  UPtrLision                         1         2         0          I         3         2         5         0
Pojtect *iueia t                                           I        2          2        17        It         s          2         2
C:vttaton and uaintan nce                                 0         0          0         1         9        Is        IJ1        13        1        1         I I       1:
total Csts                                   1       242         4        41       281         44      4*          21        20        13       13         13        13
e.    S^offits.
!1cr. rental -alut f0  nastirq rags                                 3        22         23        25        23        21        3         :9       :9        :9         :9
Urntfi ulu  of dditional 'ICS                                                  0         L        i1        St        5S        54        I5       52         3         55
;'ctil  oil. 20 Sha.s       .                                                  9         3         9         t         t          a         3                            a3
Urkort Value of SriceC   tract.:3
Total  tofneits                                                  3   J     0         42   tL             5         i        3'l        10       1;    l     .   7     0
Not  uufgts t1                                -242        .1         17      -239       -t         44        @4       :31         17      11         77        17
ECtnotic Rat, of Retutn ft J4ff4            0. 1211
4. 41141
A.    Coats.
,.nd dclIsition                                         t55
CaoIV .t.  iUlDD                               0         0          0         0         0         0         3         II         4
On-plot doveloput lfhaeOfCLUrinl                                               9        21        74        :9          5
cuongiti a ptuoevision                         0         0         0          0         0         0         *          2         0
of 3ct un4ot"t                                  0         2          3         3         I         4         2          2         3
Cperaton mand sauctrna                                    0          0         0          I        S          5         t         t                  7          I 
total costs                                  0       257         3        32         is        9s        52        2e         19         I                  r         r
lnct. reontl *alut of sItga4 ram                                                                             I          I        20        20 :5 95  
2antaI Value of aUatioual room                                                                                5        17        30        :3       'I         37         7
Rental Val. of Uopr, etc.                                                                                     I         I         I          7        7                   t
partot 4*lue of  srwite  tracts
t:aI@ oonefts                                0         0         0         0          0         0        1t        32         51        eS       D4        14         14
it hoa.fat,                            0      -257        -3        -.2       -73      -43        -3           4         3        54       57        57
t:flo0ic Rite f0 Roturn for *1tha           0.0t51



- 121 -
Annex 7
OFT' 1   1 1                               *Page 70 of 76
Iii    Al E           @     l
M~~~~~~~~~~~~
0   to rn    & ''  g f  f f    i
; M I
m



.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~LEGEND
CWtP~~~ .S fttSf
URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT I
EAST WAHDAT      X X
UPGRADING SITE   o



LACK OF TBNURE. OVERCROWDING. POOR HOUSING-An  SE VICES
123 -
iD g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aanex 7
Page 72 of 76
I   _]Jofeb~~~~~~~~~~~Joe
H.Wshdst
I
a___
,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K w.ii_
Wadi-Ria''.



- 124 -                       Annex 7
Page 73 of 76
OC01ITIONS A8R UPGRADING (19816)
7~~K
_- i_.
;- r 
Self-help Cotruction
S.~~~~~~~~~~~ . 1**.
Paved Footvetbs
-~~~~~~~
Inner view of B. Wahdat
.,; _                        .   i(Children plvint near the
LJ  r               K.  ,  .    ~~~~~Cmmity Center)



- 125 -
CCOMUNITY FACILITIES IN UGRDING ABBAS        Annex 7
Page 74 of 76
_ W 1         _          WlesW   Training Center
(Sewing classes)
I~~_                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _
( TypiDig clwme)
Z                                                 IDDO~~~~~~~~~~~~~LuCU1ation Progra_e
[                                  Ji~~~~~~~~~~t- 2gpowity Cente
I



-126-                             Annex7
FACILITIES AT  W  SITRS               Page 75 of 76
Center at Quweisseh
.         --
Core-shops at Marka 
            ..
oreshowo  at Markr



- 127 -
SITES & SERVICES           Annexc 7
Page 76 of 76
General View of Quwisoeh (S/S)
?Marka - A view showing core
core units handed over
to beneficiaries.
I-rT
Marka - A view showing
core units after
extension
s   _   !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-         4      I,
4   _         -    . 



- 128 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 25
THE FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PRL JECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Housing Bank)
(Received April 29, 1988)
S/ HS



- 129 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 25
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P A G E
_     Preface                                                       1
_    Number and Amount of loans granted by JHB under UDPl.          4
_     Analysis of net loss/profit of JHB from its UDP1 loans        5
operation.
_     Simplification of procedures for granting loans to            6
UDPl beneficiaries.
_     Level of beneficiaries committment to making payments.        7
and collection procedures.
_     Insufficient cooperation on the part of UDD in                11
following up beneficiaries with delinquencies.
=     The marketing process of the project.                         12
=    Working relationship between JHB & UDD and JHB & The
World Bank.                                                   13
=     Role of UDD in promoting a negative image about JHB.          15
=     Government's pressures on the JHB.                            16
-    Agreements and problems solved.
18
-    Withdrawal of Proceeds of the World Bank Loan through          20
-    The Overall impact of the project.                             21
_     Lessons learnt from participating in the project.             22
-     Projection of JHB's profit/loss from the following            23
projects.



-130-                   Annex 8
Page 3 of 25
PREFACE
In early 1980  , Jordan was facina a substan-
tial and growing shortage of housing and infrastructural
amenities, for the lower income groups in the Amman region.
It was estimated that one quarter of the popu-
lation of Amman urban region live in areas of uncontroled
housing and squater settlements with average household size
of 9 persons with 4 persons per room and rents ranging from
25 to 35% of household's income. High Urban land prices
coupled with large minimum plot sizes, restrictive planning
and building regulations have combined to deny low income
population access to reasonable housing at prices they can
afford.
The public housing programs which existed then
had proved inadequate to cope with the growth in demand, and
it's principal beneficiaries had been middle-income groups,
particularly civil servants who had been provided with sub-
sidized accomodation by the National Housing Corporation
(NHC).
In that period, the main source of housing
finance as a private sector-was the Housing Bank of Jordan
(JHB) which was established in 1973 and it financed most
private and cooperative housing projects.
*During the foregoing 5 year national plan
(1980-1985) investment in the housing sector has amounted to
JD 782 million, 88% came from the private sector, out of
which JD 193 million came from JHB, i.e 28% of the total
investment in that period.
**By the end of 1978 the (JHB) had advanced a
total of JD 82 million (U.S.$ 278 million) for the construc-
tion of some 20000 units of commercial and residential pro-
perties including JD. 8.6 million (U.S.$ 29 million) on lent
to NHC for its programs.
***Based on the (1976-80) five year development
plan, the demand for housing units was expected to be around
380,000 units by the end of 1980. However, only 336,000
units were expected to be available implying a shortage of
44,000 units. The annual demand for new housing was esti-
mated at 10,000 units, and NHC and JHB programs will still
leave a deficiency of some 20,000 units during the project
period.
* Five Year Plan For Economic & Social Development.
(1986-1990) Ministry of Planning.
** The fifth Annual Report of the JHB for the year ended
Dec. 31st 1978.
*   Staff Appraisal Report/ (UDP)
The World Bank. Report No. 2974-Jo.



- 131 -                  Annex 8
Page 4 of 25
Because of the presence of the above mentioned
conditionf, the need for low cost housing for the low income
population was urgent; and hence, the JHB, World Bank and
the Government of Jordan sought to fund a new housing pro-
ject which would provide more houses for the low income
population. Such houses were to be constructed by a govern-
mental implementing agency called The Urban Development
Department (UDD), this department would receive the funds
from the above mentioned funding parties in order to monitor
the construction, allocation and the marketing of such
houses and commercial plots.



-132 -                 Annex 8
Page 5 of 25
Due to the existence of the Housing Bank as an
expereinced and successfull institution in the field of
housing finance* and due to the availability of funds vested
with jHB, the Government was encouraged to covaider the
Urba.n Development Project (UDP1) to be implemented in the
Kingdom; with an estimated cost of JD 17 million.
- Sourqes of funds: in (JD)
Name of the funding      Amount to be funded in
parties                 million JD.
Housing Bank                  7.3                      43.00%
World Bank                   6.2 (US $ 21 million)   36.5%
Govenment of Jordan           3.5                      20.5%
TOTAL FUNDING                17,000,000                100%



- 133 -                Annex 8
Page 6 of 25
NUMBER AND AMOUNT OF LOANS GRANTED BY J.H.B TO BENEFICIARIES
JAN. 31st. 1988
,N U [ B E           VMUot ( JUl
SITE        BRANCH                  BUILDING MATER-                BUILDING
LOANS    IALS LOANS          LOANS      MATERIAL'
LOANS
aST WEHDAT  WEHDAT               400        56              1184018       22990
MA,RKA      MARKA
RAS EL-AIN          610       226             2476768      350616
JUFEH       SAKF EL SAIL          17         1               35020         400
RIMAM       TAJ                   83         5              202510        2000
QUWEISMEH  HAI AMIR HASSAN    1085        308              4171475      521067
HASHIMI SHAMALI
ASHRAFIEH
NUZHA       NUZHA                  2        ---               3506        ---
RUSIEFA     RUSIEFA              728      196              2798656      239558
TOTAL                           2925      792              10871953   1136631
Studies and statistics show that about *75% of benefi-
ciaries have obtained their housing units through loans
from the JHB, and that the total amount of building
materials loans granted exceeds the suggested amount at
the appraisal's stage. Such loans were the base for the
function of marketing the project.
* Number of units sold = 3879 unit. (UDD's monthly report to JHB)
Number of units sold through JHB Loans = 2925 unit
Source: (LCHD's monthly reports)



- 134-                         Annex 8
Page 7 of 25
AALYSIS OF NET LOSS/PROFIT OF JHB FROM UDP1 LOANS
OPERATION:
_ _ _--- ______
1-    The average loans balance for UDP1 was estimated as
follows:-
A-     J.D. 2,835,250 for the UDD loan from JHB's own
funds.
B-  * J.D. 5,700,000 for the beneficiaries loans from
JHB's own funds.
2-   The Central Bank of Jordan did not provide to JHB any
discount on the loans provided to UDD from JHB's own
resources.
3-    Taking the above two points into consideration the
following table of analysis of JHB's profit/loss can
be produced:-
Beneficiaries  U.D.D's   Total
Details              Loans          Loan       Loans
J.D.          J.D.        J.D.
Annual Revenues        478049        226820      704869
Cos-; of Funds         463717        193495      657212
Net Revenue of           14332        33325       47657
Funds
Direct Cost              24768        ----        24768
Net Direct Revenue      (10436)       33325       22889
Indirect Costs          10080         ----        10080
Net Working Revenue/   (20516)        33325       12809
Loss
Other Charged Costs      71712        --__        71712
Net Profit/Loss         (92228)       33325      (58903)
4-    According to the above analysis, it's clear that the
Housing Bank is loosing J.D. 58,903 every year.
Once UDD repays its loan to JHB, the estimated annual
loss for JHB resulting from granting loans to benefi-
ciaries would be about JD 92228.
5-    The Housing Bank has accepted to stand such annual
loss in it's UDP1 loans operation, because it can
cover such loss from the surplus it makes on it's
other business operations, and such an acceptance was
a commendable gusture on HB's Part.
Average beneficiary's loan balance = JD 1948.4
Number of loans qranted to beneficiaries - 2925



Annex 8
- 135                           Page 8 of 25
SIMPLIFICATION OF PROCEDURES FOR GRANZTING
LOANS TO BENEFICIARIES
The Housing Bank's interest and care was also
reflected in aiming at the reduction and Cancellation of
procedures which would result in smoothing the process for
beneficiaries to obtain their loans and housing units.
The mutual cooperation between JHB and UDD had
resulted in many actions which helped beneficiaries to
obtain their housing units in a much easier fashion, some
examples of such results are:-
1-    Liaision with UDD for field inspection of plots'
construction (the housing unit) of beneficiaries who
are granted building materials loans in order to
follow up the construction stage reached.
Such liaison shortens the peried for borrower to
obtain the later disbursements of the building
materials loan.
2-    Cancellation of making a field inspection of the plots
at the time of refunding deposit, and conducting it by
UDD at the time of granting the loan.
3-    Cancellation of the following forms which borrowers
had to fill out previouslyt-
* The statement signed by beneficiaries (borrowers)
stating that neither JHB nor UDD are committed to
either allocate a housing unit or grant a loan and
that beneficiaries (borrowers) shall not demand
interest to be paid on the amount of down payment
deposited.
* The statement signed by the beneficiaries
(borrowers) stating that the Housing Bank is not
to be held responsible if housing units proved to
be unsafe, instead this statemetkt was added as a
clause in the loan contract and Lhe previous form
was cancelled.
Such actions tend to shorten the time and enables borrowers
to obtain their loans and, therefore, their housing units in
a faster and easier fashion.



- 136-                           Annex 8
BENEFICIARIES COMMITTMENT TO MAKING REGULAR  Page 9 of 25
PAYMENTS
The enclosed table No.1 shows the level of
delinquencies in all branches/sites as it is on January
31.1987, and table No-2 shows rate of delinquencies in rela-
tion to guarantors:
*     44% of total delinquencies are in upgrading areas.
*     Thte site of East Wehdat represents 98% of total
delinquencies in upgrading areas.
*     56% of the total delinquencies are from beneficiaries
located in "sites and services areas".
*     Ruseifa site represents 40% of total delinquencies of
"sites & services" areas.
Delinquencies and Collection Procedures
The following steps are taken by the Housing Bank
in its collection process:-
1-    Borrower receives a reminding letter two months prior
to the due date of the first repayment.
2-    If there is no response from the borrower to the above
letter and the repayment is not made, another reminder
is sent 15 days after the due date.
3-    If still there is nro response from the borrower,
another letter is sent 15 days later to the borrower
and guarantor(s) requussting repayment(s) to be made.
4-    If repayments are still not made, then an official
warning is sent to borrower by registered mail.
5-    Failing to respond, then the case is rendered to the
relative Regional Management which is authorized to
take the following acLions2-
*   Inform the Administrative Governor who orders
borrower to appear at the Bank and make required
repayments, or else borrower is sent to prison.
*   Request the Notary Public to issue an official
warning to borrower to clear property within 90
days.
*   Request the Bank's lawyer to issue a warning to
the borrower and then-as a last resort- a legal
action is taken against borrower at the court of
law.
During the mentioned above procedures the concerned loan
officers usually pay occasional visits to borrowers to
discuss reasons preventing them from making payments and try
to figure out a way for rescheduling the payments.



-137 -                    Annex 8
Page 10 of 25
JHB requires guarantors in cases where borrower' s
income is insufficient for obtaining the required
amount of the loan and also, and thus to enable
borrowers to obtain larger loans, in addition JHB
requires guarantors from those beneficiaries that the
Bank doubts their ability for making payments, thus,
such requirement avoids resorting to the "Default
Provision Fund" which is a source of financing UDD's
future projects.
In addition, the guarantor in the Jordanian society is
a member of the borrower's family and, thus, such
requirement does not creat difficulties for borrowers
whom in most cases do need a guarantor in order to be
qualified for obtaining a loan due to the fact that
their income is sufficient and unstable especially
those who are in the lower income group.
Table (2), shows that eventhough loans are backed-up
by guarantors, the delinquency rate is still high, and
thus such rate contributes to the increase in loan
services cost and to the administrative costs.
In addition to the facts presented on page (4) of this
report, our studies show that the average yearly cost
for each J.D. is 0.83% for repayments of loans made on
time and without delays; under the assumption of au
avarage loan of JD.7000., avarage loan balance of
JD.4200 and a repayment period of 15 years.



TABLE NO. (I)
RA%TE OF DELINQUENCIES / JAN. 31st 1988
SHOWN BY THE NUMBERS OF DELENOUENTS BENEFICIARIES ASD ThE AMOUNTS DUE
One                   Two          Three        Four          Five            Sax
Branch      Type of  Loans    Loans not  Delinquent               Delinquent  Delinquent  Delinquent  Delinquent           Delinquent       Total
Payment             Payment      Payment       Payment      Paymert          Pavment
Site_     Granted Yet _ Due Owber  Amount    No   Amt               No  kmt      No  kut       No  kmt         No  ount       No  Lt
achemee        S.S        211       32           4        188        2  166         _            _  _           _   _         _              6   354
U -Shamalee              _
Ras El-Ain    S.S           78          _                   Y            - _                      -  - ---  -  -                   -          2    63
arka           5.S        5    3    2i 28                 849        T  730         2i _    _      _                           1  308   29  213     8 H
lal A -Amir   S.S         652       142          2     -IS          T   I8          21       _I ---        _   _  _           r  71          25  272
lassan
suaifa    8     .S    ---U          78         725       1148      I     12                      2        =     -             3           *264
clhraftia       * S       S2                     1       33 _  _        - _   _                       -  -       -     _1_  3
i5       UG&S       ~                  ~1~- T-2                                    -           -          -             T-TN  -   -AW   -0 T5 U2
r~~~~a;Wss                                                       231  2 4  504_____12089
akf Al-       U.G         17                5 2          43    _    -  -                                     _ _                                 45
ail 
iehdat         U.G                            0 _   22    65        23 1            I6567                      9  1193                       94 7  1T779
otal                      2925      306         99       4269        so 3985    _    2504       9  812         9  1193        2  9314       211 18045
P" 00
0



TABLE  NO).  2                                                       JAN.31.1988
RATE OF DELINQUEZCIES IN RELATION WITH GUARXAITRS
_ne                   TWO             Three             rouc            Fe -          Sit
Table 9o 2                  Delinquent          Dolinquent        Delinquent       Delinquent      Delinquent   P*ltsnquont              Total
Branch        1,a yn                                Paymen            Parent          Pa %ent    j 9yr et 4'.tAove,_______
5ItI   without   With 7W    out   Wit   Wtout outn Ohut   with                   _     t'=  ditut        with dithout
Sita                     G      Goar        CGar    Gar    GCr    Gar          ;-r    Gir       ,aC    'at       "ar    5ac        Gat      4r
PEat webdat  Wehdat       1%9    S            Z                7       -                  L      7       2                            ass    I
Marks.       atrka       20      3           2       _        3       1        _         _              - _              - _                4
Rasal-Aia3           _           1      _         _       _       _       _         _       _        _       _          *       _
f aw         Sak   _Al    -      -                                    _        4      _         _       _        _       _           5      _
Sail
Rmamn         taj         14      1           _       _        _       _       _       _         _       _        _       _           14     1
ovesmah      Hal Al       33      -           8      _         1               3       _         _       _        _       I          45      1
Hassan
Hash.m--   8        _           _      _         _       _       _       _         _       _        -       -       j  8       -
I-Shamalee                                                                                        I
Ashrafite   _       _           z      _         _       _    |  _       _         _
u2ha        Nuzha        _      __                  __               _        _       __               _     |___                          _
usaiEa       Rusa)ta    23       2           t2-                                                                 3   
40S    iS
0



-140 -                     Annex 8
IW -                      Page 13 of 25
INSUFFICIENT COOPERATION ON THE PART
OF UDD IN FOLLOWING-UP BENEFICIARIES
WITH DELINQUENCIES
The Housing Bank's studies show that the rate of
jelinquencies is increasing especially in the upgrading
areas, and in "East Wehdat" in particular.
The UDD was infomred about the situation once and
again, and was requested to cooperate with the JHB branche's
staff in order to reach an approach by which beneficiaries
dould be convinced to make the required regular payments. In
this respect, several meetings took place with UDD and it
das agreed that the (UDD) social workers located on site
dould cooperate with JHB's staff in following-up benefi-
ciaries with delinquencies after receiving reports from JHB
showing the names of such beneficiaries, in turn the social
workers would request payments to be made or else all offi-
cial documents needed by beneficiaries such us building
licences and other related documents would be seized and not
given to them until required payments are made.
RIegrettably, such cooperation never took place and
no efforts were made to fulfill what was agreed upon. The
Housing Bank is still requesting such cooperation, but still
no action has been taken in this regard, on the part of UDD
inspite of the guarantee of beneficiaries loans by the
Government which is effective since the date of granting the
loan and until an official title of the housing unit is
given to beneficiaries by the special Governmental depart-
ments.
The rate of delinquencies is still increasing even
though aHB has been making the necessary steps to overcome
this problem. But further and additional input from UDD
would help the situation, and would prevent any possible
negative impact upon other beneficiaries' willingness to
make payments, therefore, UDD is requested to take stronger
actions against those refusing to pay.
UDD claims that it does not have the legal right
nor power to cancel beneficiaries' rights to housing units,
due to the fact that beneficiaries are borrowers of JHB, and
that the relationship between them and UDD is terminated
once a luan contract is signed between beneficiaries and
JHB, thereupon, the Bank had to file legal actions against
some borrowers in "East Wehdat" in order to encourage others
to be committed to their payment's schedule.



- 141 -                 Annex 8
Page 14 of 25
I A R K E T I N G
Marketing of UDP1 was done in two directionst-
A-    social plots: were sold very quickly and easily
because of the high demand was supported by selling
those plots below the cost by subsidising them from
the surplus of the other plots sold at market prices.
B-    Market Plots: such as shops, workshops, coreshops and
commercial lots. Shops and coreshops were in most
cases sold at much higher prices than it was origi-
nally estimated. But for other types of market plots,
demand was not sufficient.
As mentioned before, about 75% of the project was
marketed through JHB loans, but the marketing process in
general was not administered properly which resulted in a
high amount of unsold plots, as of Dec. 31st 1988, which
were according to the quarterly report equivilant to
opproximatly JD 1.532 million, and most of the unsold were
market plots. The reasons behind the slow marketing of such
plots were as follows:
A-    UDD does not follow a systematic marketing plan, and
its marketing activities are charactarised by
insufficient advertising coverage. Just few plots were
listed for sale each time in the local newspapers
without any further advertising by TV and Radio to
explain the advantages to be gained from buying a
market plot, such as comparing that with the advan-
tages and the prices of other available options in the
market.
B-    The very large vacant commercial plots were left
unsold for a very long period adding more administra-
tive costs and loan interest cost to the plots unsold.
C-    Unlike the active private developers and realestate
companies in Amman, the UDD does not have an active,
independant and specialized marketing division, there-
fore, we suggest that UDD establishes such division in
the very near future due to the declining economic
situation which might bring about a negative impact
upon the marketing process of UDP2 and UDP3.
In addition, part F(2) schedule (5), of UDP3 Loan
Agreement states that 'UDD shall maintain a team of
qualified staff to be responsible for the marketing of the
plots and core houses....



-142-                 Annex 8
Page 15 of 25
WORKING RELATIONSHIP UETWEEN
JHB & UDD
Due to the nature of the project,. as the first of
its kind in the Kingdom, and as the main reason for the
inception of the Urban Development Department, the working
relationship between the two partios started since then when
the Housing Bank had its responsibilities in the project.
One main function that the Housing Bank performed
was to act as a financial manager for the funds channeled to
the project and in order to help UDD man -es its financial
affairs, the 3HB had assigned one of its staff as a finan-
cial manager to the UDD for 30 months.
The Housing bank was very concerned about the suc-
cess of the project and took many actions in order to ease
its regulations and procedures for an objective that it
could extend its financing to reach the largest proportion
of the target group, and to enable UDD to market the project.
No major problems were encountered and there was
constant flow of communication between the two parties, but
there were some negative points at times in such rela-
tionship, and some of those points ares-
*     UDD used to carry out special studies relating to
beneficiaries witbout informing JHB or discussing them
with it, especially the parts which are of concern to
the JHB who only knew about such studies and analysis
from the quarterly progress reports...
It would have been more helpful for both parties to
analyse and discuss such studies before reaching final
findings about them.
*     UDD held many meetings and orientation seminars to
beneficiaries , explained and discussed the project
with them, but JHB was never invited to join in such
seminars which would have been more beneficial to all
parties concerned if there was some sort of input from
JHB.
*     In a meeting held on Feb. 20th 1985 between the two
parties, it was agreed that UDD would furnish JHB with
monthly reports on the marketing of the project, such
reports were received by JHB for a short period of
time and then stopped, UDD was requested time and
again to make such reports available to 3HB, but there
is still no response.
*     UDDs' responds and replays to JHBS'  letters is somehow
slow and at times never replys in spito of JHB's con-
tinous requests.



Annex 8
_ 143 -                    Page 16 of 25
*     Disbursement documents sent by UDD to JHB are someti-
mes incomplete which tends to delay the disbursement
process.
WORKING RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN JHB & W.B.
Excellent working relationship was maintained with
the world Bank and the special missions of the WB were help-
ful in clarifying matters of concern.
The World Bank is requested by JHB for more sup-
port in regards to criticisms and compressive views directed
to it from various agencies which does not fully comprehend
the fundamental role of JHB in the Urban Development
Projects.



Annex 8
- 144 -                  Page 17 of 25
ROLE OF UDD IN PROMOTING A NEGATIVE
IMAGE ABOUT JHB
Despite JHB's efforts to extend its loans to
the largest population of beneficiares, and its growing con-
cern about Urban Development Projects, UDD strives to
accuase JHB of being an obstacle in smoothing the project's
progess towards success, thus, UDD keeps on taking the
following actions:
*    Encouraging beneficiaries to make installments
directly to UDD, when it does not have the capabili-
ties nor the qualified staff to deal with the finan-
cial implications of beneficiaries' loans and
installements.
*     Conducting studies in the area of beneficiaries drop
outs and concludes that the main factors are of rela-
tion to JHB procedures.
While one of JHB studies shows that the allocation
process by UDD takes the longest time and effort on
the part of beneficiaries, which in turn adds to their
drop-out. UDD continotis to assume that JHB is the main
reason for drop outs.
But if it takes JHB's requirements for loan granting
into consideration, and if it applys it within its
selection and elegibility criteria, then such assump-
tion would have been changed.
Sometimes the documents and facts presented by benefi-
ciaries to UDD in order to be eligible to obtain a
housing unit are found to be different when presented
to JHB for obtaining a loan e.g. the monthly income of
the family.
UDD states this assumption in its Project Completion
Report: "JHB's procedures and bureaucracy have created
obstacles for beneficiaries causing a significant
drop-out rate" but in the saine report, UDD states:
"The delays in handing over the units to beneficiares,
arising from the lenyLh of period between initial
application and completion of all necessary allocation
procedures, have caused a good proportion of benefi-
ciaries to drop out... about a quarter of total bene-
ficiaries had dropped out because of this factor".
*     Providing beneficiaries with either wrong or
incomplete information woDut JHB's loan procedures
and requirements which causes confusion to benefi-
ciaries, in this regard JHB conducted a number of
orientation courses to UDD staff in order to supply
beneficiaries with the right information needed by
them for obtaining the loan and, therefore, the
housing unit.



Annex 8
- 145 -                Page 18 of 25
GOVERNMENT'S PRESSURES ON THE
HOUSING BANK
The different Governmental agencies demanded
some actions to be taken by JHB during the time of nego-
tiating UDPl, and is still requiring JHB to take some actions
in its dealings with the low income groups of the popula-
tion, inspite of JHB's current policy which favours low
income groups such suggestions requires JHB to:-
Peimit Land to be Financed
JHB's normal policy is that it does not finance land
unless it is included in a finished unit.
Due to tbe special nature of the Urban Development
Projects, the JHB armended its policy in order to
finance land, but is not willing to finance it in its
normal loan schemes for the following reasons:
* Financing land would promote (increase) the pricea
of land due to the increase in demand and would
increase the cost of the housing unit which would
not be in the range of affordability of low-income
households. In addition to UDP's beneficiares'
loans, the JHB is willing to finance land if it is
included in Government's housing projects for low
income hoseholds, who-as JHB believes - should
receive a serious attention.
* Would limit banks and other financial institutions,
ability to extend financing for direct housing
purposes.
2-    Lower the interest rates for low-income borrowers
JHB currently charges low income borrowers a rate of
8.5% which is the lowest rate in the market, and
infact the real rate is 7.78% after deducting the life
insurance fee. In addition to the analysis presented
on page 5 of this report, it should be mentioned that
the International retail banking's spread especially
in the U.S.A. ranges between 3-3.5%, this fact
clearly provides that the JHB is subsidising the
interest rate for UDD's beneficiaries.
No other private financial institution offers such
rate and the average rate in the market as determined
by the Central Bank of Jordan is not less than 10%.



Annex 8
-146 -                      Page 19 of 25
Lower the down payment on loans (i.e  increase loan to
value ratio)
The Housing Bank's normal requirement in that only 75%
of the appraised value of a housing unit is to be
financed, including land... this requirement has been
modified in the Urban Development Projects, where JHB
acceptS only a 5% down payment, i.e 95% of the value
of the housing unit. Plus the fact the 5% is added to
the real cost of the plot including land, i.e. JHB
financeS 95% of the real cost of the plot in addition
to 5%.



-147 -                    Annex 8
Page 20 of 25
AGREEMENTS & PROBLEMS SOLVED
There were some problems that arised, of which the
majority were solved through meetings and mutual cooperation
between JHB and UDD.
[ * In a meeting held on Oct. 10. 1981 it was agreed upon
a-new comprehensive accounting system for the project.
[ * The following Problems were solved in a meeting on
March 29, 1983:-
-   it was agreed that the JHB would pay the expense
of insuring the lives of borrowers who are below
65 years old.
-  The treatment of beneficiaries in upgrading'areas
(such beneficiaries are to be treated differently
than those of the "Sites and Services", and should
be granted loans in any possible way due to the
nature of the upgrading areas).
-   Mortgaging the land of the project due to the
reduction of Government's guarantee of loans
granted.
*     In a meeting on April 6, 1983 a form was designed for
the purpose of housing unit's allocation, and it was
agreed upon the followings;
-   Provisions needed by JHB from beneficiaries in
order to be granted loans (loan applications).
-   The design and implications of the mortgage of the
units.
-  The establishment of the Default Provision Fund.
*    An agreement was reached upon the following in a
meeting that took place on April 18, 1983.
-   Financing expenditures which were not stated in
agreements nor in the appraisal report. It was
agreed that the JHB would finance land purchase.
-   Providing Bridging Finance to UDD from JHB in
order to enable UDD to make payments to contrac-
tors before receiving funds from the World Bank.



-148 -                Annex 8
Page 21 of 25
On May 23, 1983 it was agreed upon the following:-
-   Granting building material loans in access of JD.
2000 for each beneficiary.
-   The JHB's process of training UDD staff on aspects
of loans. It was agreed that the JHB would grant
building materials loans in access of the amount
mentioned in the Appraisal Report and in the Loan
Agreement, under a condition that such loans would
be granted in accordance with the usual JHB's
Individual Loans.
*     it was agreed upon the followings in a meeting held on
Feb., 20, 1985:-
-   The financing of the Second Urban Development
Project.
-   Membership of the Revolving Fund.
-   Re-scheduling the balance of UDD's loans (UDP1).
-   Providing JHB with monthly reports on the
marketing process of the project.
-   Establishment of accounts for cash sales of the
housing units and accounts for units sold through
loans.
-   Ammendment of allocation contract to include a
provision of default.
And in a meeting that took place on November 4, 1987 it was
agreed:-
That JHB would continue to grant loans with loan to value
ratio of 95% in addition to the provision of default.
An agreement reached regarding the way of calculating the
provision of default.



- 149 -
WIrHDRAWAL OF PROCEEDS OF THE WORLD BANK LOAN   Annex 8
THROUGH THE hOUSIN( hANK               Page 22 of 25
All withdrawal applications from the WB loan along
th the required documentations were checked in JHB before
they wete sent to the WB.
The JHB was duing such processing as the project
finanCial administrator in order to make sure of the
p~~~~f. lollwing 
A-   That the withdrawal applications were prepared in
accordance with the WB requiremLents and in accordance
with the WB Disbursement Procedures and Guidelines.
0_   That the withdrawals were onlb submitted for only eli-
gible expenditures covered by the WB loai& and in
accordance of schedule No. (1) of the Loan Agreement.
c-   That the proper forms were used and calculation was
done accuratly.
D-   That all of this was done in a speedy manner in order
to have the money available for the project financing
as quickly as possible.
DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED IN REIMBURSEMENT OF
EXPENDITURES FROM THE WB's LOAN
A-    At the begining of the project implementation, money
was received 45 to 60 days after the mailing date of
the withdrawal application. Presumably such a long
time was needed by the WB because it was in the
begining of the project, the WB's Disbursement
Division needs some time to build the confidence in
the HB's handling of the withdrawal applications. But,
toward the end of the project reimbursement took only
between 15 to 20 days after the mailing date.
B-    The WB only disburses funds after the actual expen-
diture had been made, this policy made it difficult
for the project implementing agency to aquire funds
temporarily until the WB's money is actually received.
In this regard two developments happened:
1-  In UDPl, JHB made available to UDD a bridging loan
financing which enabled the UDD to have the funds
available to it from JHB untill the disbursement of
the WB was received.
2-  In UDP2 & 3 the WB recognized the importance of
the need for money to be available to UDD at the
time when the expenditure is due to be paid for,
and established the "Special Account" in Dollar
amount. Through this new account the UDD can issue
cheques to the vendores and these cheques can be
submitted to JHB and cashed from the "Special
Account" immediatly.
This supports the need for having a special
account at the JHB for the purpose of extending finance to
UDD.



Annex 8
- 150 -                  Page 23 of 25
THE OVERALL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
UDPl was very successful in achieving it's origi-
nallY intended objectives, such success was depicted in the
following observations:-
1-    The demand was well above the Supply of housing units.
2-    The markets and commercial plots were sold at prices
aboye the originally estimated prices which helped in
reducing the sale prices of the social plots.
3-    A surplus of about JD. 1 million was estimated
according to Sept. 30th quarterly report.
4-    Loans which were extended to UDD through JHB were
completely paid up by Dec. 31st 1987.
Inspite of the above features of success in UDP1,
it could be said that the following projects (UDP2,
UDP3...etc) would not enjoy the same success because of the
following factors:-
1-    UDPI started in a preferrable economic conditions and
in times of prosperity. But other projects are started
or will start in times of economic depression, sim-
milar to what we are experiencing nowadays, such
depression undoubtedly will have it's negative effects
on the size of demand on the UDPS.
2-    The large subsidies which the Government of Jordan had
provided to the beneficiaries of The City of Abu Nasir
(Constructed by NHC) increased the demand on the
housing un-ts of the city which in return absorbed a
lot of the demand on low cost housing otherwise, such
demand would still be there to be absorbed by UDD's
future projects the subsidies are:-
A- Abolishing the downpayment.
B- Charging a subsidies interest rate of 5.5% with a
loan term of 30 years.
3-    Most of the sites in UDP3 are upgrading rather than
new sites. Since the upgrading are not as profitable
as the new sites, then expansion of upgrading sites
more than the new sites will also have it's negative
effect on the financial outcome of the project.
4-    Some of the newly selected sites for UDP2 & UDP3 are
not as popular as UDP1 sites.



Annex 8
_ 151 -                   Page 24 of 25
LESSONS LEARNT BY JHB FROM PARTICIPATING
IN THE PROJECT
*     Gained additional experience through working with the
world Bank in the field of large scale project
financing and through acting as a financial manager
of the funds.
*    .Enabled the bank to have a better understanding of the
conicept and schemes of extending housing finance to
the 10-40th income percentile of the population.
*     Participation in the project has founded a solid
ground for the Housing Bank's involvement in the
following projects.
*     Gave the Bank a chance to extend its knowledge and
services towards acheiving one of the Government.
priority issues and goals related to securing shelter
for the low-income group as stated in the Government
Five Year Plan for Economic and Social Development.



Annex 8
Page 25 of 25
PROJECTION OF JHB PROFIT/LOSS FROM THE
FOLLOWING PROJECTS
1-   UDP1
A-  Beneficiaries' loans were not a profitable opera-
tion for the Housing Bank in UDP1 as shown on page
4 of this report. But, HB has benefited largely
from it's experience and developed very suitable
methods and procedures for it's lending opera-
tions, such developed methods and procedures are
of the following advantages:-
1- Reduction of loss on the beneficiares' loans,
and the continous improvements, plans can be
made for even future profits and this will lead
to less subsidies to the operation of these
loans on the account of the other profitable
operations of the Housing Bank.
2- Fast and easy to follow procedures for loans
applications which gives comfort and less
complicated steps to the beneficiaries applying
for UDP's loans.
B-  UDD loans from JHB are not a loosing operation to
JHB. Some profits are made which compensate part
of the beneficiaries loans losses. The rate of
return made on these loans is less than what is
made on similar investments in size and terms made
by the Housing Bank.
2-    UDP2 and UDP3
The following improvements to the mentioned above con-
ditions has been made with regard to UDPI and UDP3:-
A-  The Central Bank of Jordan has agreed to discount
30% of the total JHB's investment from it's own
resources lent to UDD at an annual reduced rate of
4%. Such a discount rate will reduce the effective
cost of JHB's own money made available for the
projects from 7.17% to 6.219%.
B-  In each of the two subsidiary loan agreements of
UDP2 & 3, a specific article stated that 'An
annual review will be made of the cost of money
made available by JHB to the projects both from
JHB's own resources and money on lent to JHB from
WB loan, and of the applied interest rates in
order to make sure that an overall rate of return
not less than 1.3% is attained by JHB, while the
normal spread attained by the retail banking
internationally ranges between 3-3.5% as was men-
tioned before in this report.



* t                                                               Anne 9
aPse 1 of 4
I  H OE HW$1NG BANK                                                  a&UIj.L'
COMSENTS FROM THE BOROWER
Number: 12/1/2
Date    May 4rd.,1989
Mr. Alexander Nowicki
Division chief
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Sir,
Re: Project Completion Report UDP1 (Loan 1893-JO)
We received your Project Completion Report for UDP1, enclosed in
your letter dated March 24 ,1989 . Upon reviewing your.report, we
found it quite comprehensive in evaluating UDP1. But, we have the
following comments:-
1-   Although the findings of the HB report are incorporated into
the project completion report prepared by the WB, we feel
that this does not reflect the full contents of our report,
Accordingly, we would like to see our completion report in-
cluded as an annex to your report
2-   As  to the Draft Completion Report prepared by the UDD,  at-
tached as Annex 7 of the report, it is the same draft we
received  from the UDD in January 1988.  We had several com-
ments on that draft report,  which the UDD  did  not  incor-
porate in it's Final Completion Report yet.
We  were recently informed that the UDD has the final Report
ready, and will furnish you with a substitution for attach-
ment to the Project Completion Report of the WB.
3-   The Report has mentioned in many places,  the differences of
openion between UDD and HB. We would appreciate not em-
phasizing too much on this point by deleting it from the
following paragraphs in your report:-
3.07, 4.15, 6.03 and Anex 5 page 1 of 4 per.3
I   dm- moo-Abbp&e oup SLFr 6.6n721n lCAdd.iK^ANTdx216Z922361,23" ANJOP.O. Bx769Td.667U/4
jgIAfl) .i.aM4,j  *
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i' 



MPge 2 of 4
4-   Paragraph 4.03
Last sentence "This marketing strategy contributed to
the success of UDD's cost recovery, and also provided
some Surplus from the project, currently estimated at
about JD 2 million."
According to UDD Quarterly Report Apr.-June 1988 page
54, the total project surplus was estimated at JD
998000, which is about JD 1 million.
5-   Paragraph 4.04
It is mentioned that the financial position of both the
UDD and HB will be affected by the performance of the
280 households paying directly to UDD.
The only financial position affected is the UDb's. Be-
cause these loans were granted by the UDD at it's own
risk, without any participation or involvement from HB.
6-  Paragraph 4.14
We suggest to change the end of the paragraph in page 8
to read as follows:-
And provision of beneficiary mortgage loans for about
75X of total households in the project. It performance
has been very good.
7- Pharagraph 6.02 and 7.05
It is mentioned in par. 6.02 that " HB has supplied the
desired information about the status of beneficiaries,
repayments only intermittently".
In par. 7.05 it is mentioned that:-
"It is also recomended that the cost recovery of the
project including beneficiary repayments and the cost
of the lcans to HB be carefully monitored during super-
vision of follow up projects".
JinwA -   -A ; po&e:k.g S. PsUi 1 M Ai;;       e  ;. IN T f  6, 23ISKANJOP P0b. 7. 3 Tdx  6p6/4



Vega 3 of 4
THE HOUSIN aSAN                                                      o&-l.mLu
Beneficiary loans from HB are not part of the cost
recovery for UDD. The amount of each loan is credited
to  the  UDD  account  once  the  beneficiary  loan  is
granted. So, the loans are granted from HB own funds
under it's full responsibility and risk. Eventhough,
the HB provided UDD with reports on  these  loans  upon
request.  There  is no mention in any of the agreements
that HB must provide UDD with regular reports on these
loans.
8-   Annex 1, page 1 of 4, par. 3:-
It is  Aentioned on behalf of (UDDCR) that "some of  the
delays in handing over plots to beneficiaries are at-
tributed to HB procedures'. According to the UDD this
has caused a significant dropout rate.
The beneficiary loans are granted out of the HB own
fund and at it's own risk. Hense, Housing Bank proce-
dures have to be applied. Eventhough the HB has agreed
to shorten  some of it's procedures concerning the  UDD
beneficiaries. The HS is willing to receive any sug-
gestions or trainning from the WB in this regard
9-   Annex 5, page 1 of 5, par. 3.
It is mentioned that "some informal training of HB
staff in UDD approach to beneficiary selection and
pracessing of appli;ations".
It should be changed to read :- Some mutual training
between HB and UDD staff had improved the knowledge of
both UDD staff and HB staff.
10- Annex 5, page 2 of 4, par.7
It is mentioned that "the underlying assumptions and
calculations require further investigation".
The HB considers its calculation of its cost and profit
margins as reliable. In,the mean time, HB welcomes any
investigations to be made in this regard by the WB rep-
resentatives.
I  Jaibn-Aw-Ab&Mpoka   SMi:--6MU21 CaAddAISKAKTeIa261,22.240ISKAN)OP.O.Doz 703T.E6Dtt4
{MIa * E&IjJ v                                                                        - 1



156~.
THE i,ousuis                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4.dI.La.
11- Page 12 of the HB's report, HB made several observa-
tions about the marketing
We feel that marketing requires   .more  attention  and
that it should be specifically mentioned in your final
report in an effort to identify areas fow improving
-marketing practices of UDD in future projects.
We hope that our obove comments will prove useful and
constructive in the preparation of your final report.
Yours Sincerely
--- ~Zuhair Khouri
Director General
CC: File number .12/1/2
: LCHD  .
: Mr Ismail Ghawanmeh for follow up
on June 20, 1989
I  JoI4s - Am -AI^_plk caeg Sr. aCMe VML:A  ISA Tdhz a"9U 22r-t-  ,.  Mr 2.*x  MUeM. 661
1o& sb-h AD-Abbi poEm oMq Str Fhswk:67*1Cdk AddL IKAN Td >}ld 226, 2SMLKANJO P.0 -Box7693TdL661LS4



