Document of                        fILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repert No. P-2857-JO
REPORT AND RECOMIMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 25, 1980
This documnt bha a resicted dlslbundon an may be used by recipient only in te peromn  d
Itheir sciad u"ts. ts contts my Sot otherwise be disosed witout Wordd Dnk athoIuaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979        April 1980
Currency Unit   m   Jordan Dinar (JD)   Jordan Dinar (JD)
JD 0.295        -   US$1.00               US$l.O0
JD 1.00         .   US$3.39               US$3.39
JD 1.00         -   1,000 fils            1,000 fils
FISCAL YEAR   =   CALENDAR YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AURPG     .         Amman Urban Region Planning Group
ANSA      -        Amman Water & Sewerage Authority
CVDB      -         Cities and Villages Development Bank
HB        -         Housing Bank
IDB       -         Industrial Development Bank
JEPCO     -        Jordan Electric Power Company
;RA       -        Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
NHC       -        National Housing Corporation
NPC       -         National Planning Council
SSIHP     -        Small Scale Industry and Handicraft
Program
USAID     -         United States Agency for International
Development
UDD       -         Urban Development Department
VTC       -         Vocational Training Corporation
WSC       -         Water Supply Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JORDAN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiaries:         The Housing Bank (HB) and the Industrial Development
Bank (IDB)
Amount:                US$21.0 million
Terms:                 17 years, including 4 years of grace at an interest rate
of 8.25 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:       The Borrower will relend $13.9 million of the loan
proceeds to the Housing Bank at 8.25 percent for 20
years, including 4 years of grace, and will relend
$0.85 million to the Industrial Development Bank at
6.5 percent for 10 years including 3 years of grace.
The Borrower will make the remaining $6.25 million
available to the Housing Bank for the financing of
project facilities whose costs are non-recoverable
from project beneficiaries. The Government will bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:          The primary objective of this first Bank-financed
urban project in Jordan is to provide shelter and
related infrastructure and community facilities to low
income groups at affordable prices with a minimum of
subsidies to assure replicability. The project also
aims at improving productivity of low-income urban
residents. Specifically, the project would consist
of the following components:
a) Provision of about 5,000 serviced plots under three
sites and services schemes at North Ruseifa, Marka,
and Quweismeh;
b) Upgrading of four low income settlements in the City
of Amman at Jofeh, Wadi Hadr,adah, East Wahdat, and
Wadi Umm er Rimam;
c) Small business assistance arid manpower training;
d) Consultancy services for project management, design
and supervision, and studies;
e) Provision of equipment for otnicipal maintenance
services.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The project would provide housing for 41,000 low income
residents to be located in the three sites and services
areas and improved housing for an additional 15,000 in
the upgrading areas and represents a first step in the
development of a revised strategy for providing decent
housing to the urban poor in Jordan at affordable
prices. The project also would strengthen local orga-
nizational and institutional capability in the sector
to foster its replicability. The project has two main
risks: Firstly, its emphasis on cost recovery, includ-
ing a higher interest rate charge under this project
compared with conventional housing schemes, is polit-
ically and socially sensitive and will require continu-
ing strong Government support. Secondly, project
implementation may be hampered by institutional weakness
due to shortage of trained staff. However, the Govern-
ment has indicated its strong commitment to the project
and considerable amount of consultancy services have
been included in the project to assist in implementa-
tion.
Estimated Costs: 1/                              Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ million--------
Land                                              11.14       -          11.14
Sites & Services                                  15.05      7.25        22.30
Upgrading                                          2.83       1.14        3.97
Small Business Assistance                          2.21      1.09         3.30
Design, Supervision, Project Mgt and Studies   3.12          2.06         5.18
Municipal Service Equipment                         -        0.51         0.51
Contingencies
Physical                                        1.88       0.91         2.79
Price                                           5.44       3.00         8.44
Total Project Costs                    41.67      15.96       57.63
Financing Plan:                                 Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ million --------
IBRD                                             5.0        16.0        21.0
Government of Jordan                            11.9          -         11.9
Housing Bank of Jordan                          24.7          -         24.7
41.6        16.0       57.6
1/   Includes custom duties and import taxes (about US$2.3 million).



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY                     1981    1982       1983    1984    1985
--------------US$ million------------
Annual          0.7      4.4       7.5      5.8       2.6
Cumulative      0.7      5.1      12.6    18.4       21.0
Rate of Return:         20 percent (Sites & Services, and Upgrading Components)
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2974-JO, dated June 23, 1980
Map:                    IBRD No. 14781






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR
AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Bank loan of US$21.0 million equivalent to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
to help finance an Urban Development project. The loan will have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
The Government will relend $13.9 million of the loan proceeds to the Housing
Bank at 8.25 percent for 20 years including 4 years of grace and will relend
$0.85 million to the Industrial Development Bank at 6.5 percent for 10 years
including 3 years of grace. The Borrower will make the remaining $6.25
million available to the Housing Bank for the financing of project facilities
such as schools, vocational training facilities, and community facilities
whose costs are non-recoverable and which would be later transferred to other
Government agencies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Jordan" (No.
1738-JO, dated January 9, 1978) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
January 19, 1978. An updating economic mission visited Jordan in July 1978
and its findings are reflected in this report. Another updating economic
mission visited Jordan in February 1980 and its report is under preparation.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        Jordan is a small country of 2.2 million people (East Bank).  Due to
limited natural resources, the structure of output and employment is service
and trade-dominated. The economy's service-oriented character is reflected in
Jordan's increasing role as a provider of manpower to neighboring countries
and a regional tourist center, particularly since the disruptions in Lebanon.
Jordan has benefited from its regional setting in terms of foreign exchange
inflows in the form of external grants, workers' remittances, exports and
tourism revenues. However, costs of this role to the economy have included
the outflow of scarce skilled labor and the persistence of a domestic saving
constraint due to the high defense expenditures and the impetus towards higher
consumption.
Recent Developments
4.        During the Three-Year Plan (1973-75), GDP grew at about 5 percent
per year. Agriculture stagnated as a result of droughts while the industrial
sector increased its share of GDP, mainly due to increased production and
prices of phosphates and rapid growth in manufacturing output, encouraged by
higher domestic and external demand. Since the country embarked on a Five-
Year Development Plan in early 1976, overall economic growth has accelerated.
1/   Part I of this report is essentially identical to paragraphs 2-16 of
the President's Report No. P-2738-JO on a Loan for the Cities and
Villages Development Bank Project, dated March 10, 1980.



Between 1976 and 1978 GDP at market prices grew at about ten percent in real
terms led by a strong growth in agriculture (13 percent per year) and industry
(15 percent per year). Investment expenditures, which averaged 28 percent of
GDP in 1973-1975, have accelerated further reaching 41 and 39 percent of GDP
in 1977 and 1978. This strong upward trend in investment expenditure reflects
the increased availability of foreign resources in the form of grants, foreign
loans and labor remittances.
5.        The increased investment efforts have led to rapidly rising imports
and widening trade deficit. Nevertheless, the overall balance of payments
position has remained strong owing to a significant increase in exports in
recent years, increased earnings from tourism and workers' remittances and the
large inflow of foreign aid. Despite a decline in earnings from phosphates,
between 1975 and 1978, export earnings increased by 18 percent per year (in
current dollar terms), mainly due to an increase in manufactured good exports,
aided by higher prices of fruit and vegetable exports. Imports in the mean-
while rose by 25 percent per year, owing mainly to an increase in raw material
and capital good imports.  In 1978, however, the growth of imports slowed down
to about 12 percent over 1977 due to the completion of important projects.
During the period 1975-1978 Jordan's net earnings on services almost tripled
to over $400 million in 1978 as a result of increasing inflows of remittances
(encouraged by the climate of financial stability in Jordan and the boom in
real estate) and earnings from tourism. Inflow of foreign aid, although
fluctuating from year to year, continues to play a key role in the Jordanian
economy. After peaking to over $500 million in 1977, foreign aid declined to
about $330 million in 1978. Following the Baghdad Conference in November
1978, inflows are rising again and are likely to amount to a record high of
about $1.0 billion in 1979. The level of gross reserves increased substan-
tially to $923 million at. end-1978 (equivalent to about 7 months of imports),
partly because of foreign exchange appreciation.
6.        Although the Government budget is still heavily dependent on foreign
grants, some improvements have been made in expanding domestic revenues,
which accounted in 1978 for about 52 percent of total revenues as compared to
42 percent in 1975-1977. The increase in domestic revenues was mainly due to
increased custom duties, a higher tax rate on corporate profits and improved
collection of personal income tax. Despite a doubling of domestic revenues
and the sizeable inflow of foreign grants over the period 1975-1978, the
budget deficit increased considerably as a result of stepped up government
expenditure on both the recurrent (68 percent increase) and capital (95
percent increase) accounts. Partly also as a result of the decline in foreign
grants, the budget deficit was at a record high of JD 114 million in 1978 (20
percent of GDP).
7.        The domestic budget deficit, combined with accelerated private
sector credit led in 1978 to a 36 percent growth rate in domestic liquidity
(compared with 23 percent in 1977). The acceleration in the growth of private
sector credit reflected a policy decision to encourage economic activity
following the slowdown experienced in 1977. The inflationary impact was
somewhat mitigated both by the propensity of Jordanians to hold cash balances
and the tendency of commercial banks to hold liquid reserves at higher-than-
required levels. Large amounts of credit were directed to the tertiary sector



and revived construction activities. Industrial investment has in the past
relied largely on retained earnings or direct support from Government but is
now relying more upon financial resources mobilized by the banking sector.
Also, the Amman Stock Exchange has been instrumental in mobilizing financial
resources for industrial enterprises since its inception in January 1977. Its
activities were reinforced by the creation of a Jordan Securities Corporation
with IFC's assistance. Lending to industry amounted to 11 percent of all
outstanding credit at the end of 1978.
8.        The cost of living index increased by nearly 15 percent per year
during 1973-76. The rate of increase since dropped to 11 percent in 1977 and
7 percent in 1978. Inflationary pressures resulted from both domestic and
external factors. Some causes of inflation were external, such as the sharp
rise in the prices of imported goods, strong demand for Jordanian goods and
services by neighboring countries, growing inflows of workers' remittances,
and the speculation in real estate which accompanied the influx of refugees
and businesses from Lebanon.
9.        Partly as a result of the continuing migration of Jordanian labor
to neighboring countries and partly because of rapid economic growth, the
labor market has now reached a situation of full employment except in the
rainfed areas and pressures have emerged on the demand side leading to an
import of labor from abroad. About 200,000 Jordanians are estimated to
be working abroad, compared to total domestic employment of about 400,000.
The Government has been trying to raise female participation rates, which
are low, by opening up employment opportunities for women and by expanding
child care facilities. It has also given increased emphasis to education,
particularly to vocational training, and has provided a broad range of social
services to attract Jordanian labor. There is a growing propensity, in both
private and public sectors, to increase the capital intensity of projects in
order to economize on labor.
Medium-term Prospects
10.       The primary objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1976-80) are
to diversify the productive structure of the economy, increase overall growth,
and improve tax and export revenues in order to reduce dependence on external
assistance and achieve self-reliance in the long run. This involves exploit-
ing phosphates and potash resources for export; extending irrigation in the
Jordan Valley to increase agricultural production, particularly of high-value
fruits and vegetables for export where Jordan enjoys a comparative advantage
in the region; promoting production of export-oriented consumer goods indus-
tries; and strengthening infrastructure in the transport and services sector
to serve regional development needs and earn additional foreign exchange.
During the first three years of the Plan the investment targets were attained.
The overall implementation ratio at the end of 1978 was about 95 percent of
the original targets in real terms. Social issues are being given increasing
attention by the Government, which is currently formulating a program of
action to assist low income groups and rural areas.



-4 -
11.       The medium-term prospects for growth are good, with a likely GDP
growth rate of 6-8 percent per year in real terms. Overall investment is
likely to stay at a high level but may decline as a proportion of GDP from
the exceptionally high rates experienced in 1976-1978 (about 40 percent of
GDP). Jordan's development and export prospects strongly depend on the
implementation of several major projects (phosphate rock mining, potash,
phosphatic fertilizer, oil refining and the Maqarin Dam) and the vitality
of the private sector. Phosphate production may rise to 5 million tons per
year in the next few years. If the proposed projects are implemented on
time and if the marketing is carefully arranged, exports of potash and phos-
phatic fertilizer should also yield substantial foreign exchange earnings
in the early eighties. In industry, priorities have been well established
and the Government encourages industrial development. In view of Jordan's
stock of entrepreneurial skills and the market for medium-scale industrial
products in neighboring countries, the private sector should continue to show
healthy growth. Further improvements in packaging and marketing, however,
are needed for export promotion and improved productivity will be needed to
offset the rise in labor cost. In agriculture, the focus of the Government is
correctly on developing irrigated agriculture. But increased attention will
need to be paid to rainfed agriculture where there is a need to strengthen the
weak institutional and coordinating machinery, reduce fragmentation of land-
holdings and to improve research and extension services.
Development Issues
12.       To achieve gradually the Government's objective of self-sufficiency,
domestic resource mobilization will need to be increased. The Government
can restrain current expenditure growth to some extent particularly by reduc-
ing fuel subsidies which have risen considerably with the rise in oil prices.
But given the need to compete with high wages and salaries offered to trained
personnel in neighboring countries, greater possibilities lie in increased
revenues rather than in controlling expenditures. Tax collection efforts need
to be further increased, and consideration should be given to reducing the
high tax holidays and exemptions of business and individuals. There is also
some scope for increasing taxes on real estate and on non-essential imported
consumer goods. Domestic demand management and financial controls need to
be improved, both to restrain inflationary pressures and to improve domestic
resource mobilization. Efforts are currently being made to issue a variety
of debt instruments to cover financing gaps in the Government sector and to
develop a secondary market for these issues. Similarly, the Government is
encouraging public and private corporations to issue bonds so as to raise
capital directly from the public.
13.       Labor migration to neighboring countries is expected to continue
and is likely to cause shortages of labor in Jordan, particularly skilled
labor. The Government has correctly decided to focus on expanding the supply
of labor rather than attempt to restrict its outflow; a 30 percent outflow of
skilled labor is assumed in the education and training plans. The low partic-
ipation rates, particularly among women, and the underemployed labor in the
rainfed areas represent potential for increased labor supplies. In order to
retain scarce skilled labor in Jordan, the Government is also providing low



5-
cost housing, and various subsidies to reduce the price of imported food
staples and has recently raised civil service salaries. However, most of the
subsidies are provided with insufficient selectivity in terms of recipients,
and the Gov2rnment is reviewing this policy.
14.       Because of their size, Jordan's prospective investments in several
major projects (phosphate mining, phosphatic fertilizer, potash and Maqarin
Dam) require especially careful resource planning. These investments (exclud-
ing the Maqarin Dam, for which works will not start before 1981) are expected
to amount to about one-third of total investment during the remainder of the
current Plan period. Although these projects will tax Jordan's physical,
human, and financial resources, they are net foreign exchange generating
projects exploiting Jordan's rather meager natural resources. So far, Jordan
has been successful both in phasing investment so as not to burden its foreign
exchange resources unduly, and in obtaining substantial amounts of external
assistance on relatively concessional terms for the first three above-mentioned
projects; financing of the large investments related to the Maqarin Dam and
associated irrigation and water supply development is currently under discus-
sion.
External Assistance
15.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 1978
was $825 million ($1,594 million including undisbursed). Of this total, loans
from bilateral sources amounted to $533 million ($1,052 million including
undisbursed) and accounted for 65 percent. Outstanding debt to IDA and the
IBRD was $54.0 million ($120.7 million including undisbursed). Since the bulk
of Jordan's foreign debt has been secured on concessional terms, the debt
service burden remains low. Debt service payments amounted to $53.9 million
in 1978, equivalent to 6.6 percent of total exports of goods and non-factor
services.
16.       Assuming an improvement in domestic resource mobilization (para.
12), Jordan would still need substantial external capital inflows to finance
its development efforts apart from the large external budget support devoted
chiefly to military expenditures. Judging from past trends in commitments by
donor countries, Jordan is expected to mobilize loan commitments from the USA,
Federal Republic of Germany, and UK totalling $75-$90 million annually at
relatively concessionary terms (2-3 percent interest rate, 20-40 years
maturity, with 4-10 years grace) in addition to substantial loans from Arab
multilateral and bilateral sources (para. 5). Jordan can also absorb more
borrowings on commercial terms, mostly in suppliers' credits. The debt
service ratio is projected to reach 9-10 percent in the early eighties, and
should remain manageable if the Government continues to exercise the restraint
it has shown in the past.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Jordan has received four Bank loans totalling $79 million and
fifteen IDA credits totalling $83.8 million (net of cancellations) of which
nine have been fully disbursed. Project implementation is generally satis-
factory. As of December 31, 1979, disbursements amounted to 66 percent of
appraisal estimates and 80 percent of revised estimates. The IDA credits have
mainly financed physical and social infrastructure projects, such as education,
highways, water supply and sewerage, power, irrigation and tourism. With
Jordan having attained a stage in its economic development where it could be
considered creditworthy for Bank lending, and having reached a GNP per capita
level that exceeded IDA limits, the Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage
Project, approved in March 1978, was the last project financed through an IDA
credit. IFC has made four investments in Jordan with total commitments of
$31.8 million, consisting of a $244,000 equity participation and a $1.6
million loan to Jordan Ceramic Industries Limited (JCI) in 1974, a $3.1
million equity participation in the promotion of a phosphatic fertilizer
project in 1975 including a subsequent $20 million loan and $3.6 million
additional equity participation in June, 1978 (see para 19), a $667,000 equity
participation and a $2.5 million loan to a brick company in December 1978 and
$600,700 equity participation in the Jordan Security Corporation in June 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of May 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Unlike past Bank Group assistance to Jordan which was largely for
infrastructure projects, recent and proposed lending is also directed toward
large export oriented projects with foreign exchange earning potential for
which the Bank Group has closely cooperated with the Government in project
preparation and in mobilizing large external financial assistance. In addi-
tion, the Bank Group has been assisting the Government in implementing its
social objectives, as enunciated in the Five-Year Plan (1976-80). These
objectives are likely to receive even greater emphasis in the next Five-Year
Plan under preparation, which will aim at improving the income and living
standards of the rural and urban poor.
19.       In line with these overall objectives, the Bank Group provided
technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding
phosphate rock production, and preparing a comprehensive program for a second
phase of development of the agricultural potential of the Jordan Valley and
for water supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An Engineering Credit was made in
FY1975 to help prepare the project for potash production from the Dead Sea via
solar evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the Executive Directors on
September 5, 1978. In addition, IFC has assisted the Government in preparing
a phosphatic fertilizer project to produce diammonium phosphate (DAP) and
triple superphosphate (TSP) for which an IFC loan of $20 million and equity
participation of $3.6 million were approved by the Executive Directors on June
27, 1978, in addition to IFC's equity participation of $3.1 million in 1975
(see para 17). Support for the Government's social objectives was provided



by the third loan for education that was approved in December 1979, the Cities
and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) project approved in March, 1980 and this
project. Projects are under preparation in the education, water supply,
industries and power sectors. In the agriculture sector, we propose to assist
in the development of irrigated production in the Jordan Valley and are
preparing a rainfed agriculture project to help small farmers increase their
yields through improved inputs of seeds and fertilizer as well as through
better cultivation practices.
20.       The Bank was Executing Agent for a two-year UNDP Planning Assistance
Project based in the National Planning Council which was completed in December
1975. It was also Executing Agent for a UNDP-financed study of the manufactur-
ing industry and industrial estates in Jordan. The first phase, consisting of
a study of the industrial sector, was completed in December 1975. The second
phase, consisting of studies of specific industries and proposals for the
establishment of industrial estates during the next Plan period was completed
in December 1976. The establishment of industrial zones and supporting ser-
vices for light manufacturing would aim at regulating the concentration of
economic activity in the Amman-Zarqa area, which has strained the infrastruc-
ture facilities and caused severe pollution. The Bank has also assisted
the Government in initiating studies for the promotion of export oriented
industries, in establishing an entity to plan and coordinate the use of scarce
water resources, and in developing a program for exploiting Jordan's extensive
shale oil resources and in manpower planning.
21.       At the end of 1979, the Bank Group's share in Jordan's external
public debt was estimated at 7.9 percent, and its share in debt service was
1.0 percent. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in debt
service are expected to be about 4.0 percent and 5.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
22.       Jordan is a highly urbanized country, with about two-thirds of
its population living in urban areas and concentrated in a few relatively
large cities. In 1979, about 1.3 million of the total population of 2.2
million resided in the Amman urban region. Within the region, the city of
Amman accounted for 650,000 and Zerqa for about 215,000. Apart from the city
of Irbid with a population of 115,000, no other town has a population in
excess of 50,000. Population growth has been high, exacerbated by migration,
resulting from previous Middle East conflicts. Average annual population
growth in the Amman urban region since 1961 is estimated at 6 percent per
annum.
Sector Institutions
23.       The Municipality of Amman is responsible for providing municipal
services to the City of Amman with financing provided directly from municipal



-8-
taxes supplemented by grants from the Central Government. The Municipality
enjoys considerable autonomy and the Mayor reports directly to the Prime
Minister's office. Water supply and sewerage services are provided by the
Amman Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), recipient of an IDA credit in 1978.
About 75 percent of the households in Amman city are connected to the water
supply system and 28 percent to the sewerage system, whose efficient operation
is hampered by a shortage of water. Solid waste management in Amman city is
relatively satisfactory except in the poorer areas where accumulated garbage
represents a health hazard. Electricity is distributed by Jordan Electric
Power Company which supplies about 98 percent of the population. The principal
services under the city's control--town planning and building control, solid
wastes, roads and traffic engineering--are organized into 9 geographical and
operational divisions, each under administrative control of a technical
assistant. These divisions are politically under the jurisdiction of three or
four council members elected to represent each division, who jointly form the
City Council under the Lord Mayor. The Lord Mayor and the Under-Secretary,
the most senior non-elected official, are advised by Technical Advisors, a
Planning Officer and a City Engineer who are supported by Administrative
Officers. The municipality's organizational and managerial structure are
ill-defined, with resulting uneven standards of service throughout the city
and generally low-quality administration. The Finance Manager operates at the
level of an Administrative Officer and has inadequate authority and status to
play a meaningful part in the management of the Municipality. As a result
insufficient attention was given in the past to budgeting, financial control
accounting and auditing. In 1978, the Council engaged expatriate management
consultants to advise on ways to improve the organization and management of
the Municipality and the consultants' recommendations are currently under
review by the Council and Municipal officials. During project implementation,
the Municipality will inform the Bank of the outcome of its review and the
steps to be taken to improve its management and organization, including the
strengthening of financial management and procedures.
24.       The Housing Bank (HB).  It was established in 1974 to help mobilize
public savings to finance construction of housing for all income groups, but
with emphasis on the low- to middle-income group. Current ownership is 54
percent private and 46 percent public with about 50 percent in foreign owner-
ship. In 1978, the Housing Bank had a paid-up capital of JD 12 million ($40.8
million), total assets of JD 87 million ($295 million), loan commitments of JD
61 million ($207 million) and deposits of JD 62 million ($210 million). The
Housing Bank has JD 8.6 million ($29 million) in loans from the Central Bank
provided at 4 percent interest per annum. Interest rate paid on deposits
ranges between 5.5-6.0 percent. The Housing Bank charges an interest rate of
7.5 percent for loans to cooperatives and farmers, 8.5 percent for individual
borrowers and 10 percent for loans to commercial enterprises resulting in a
weighted average of about 9 percent which provides the Housing Bank with a
spread of between 3-3.5 percent. Presently, the Housing Bank provides loans
for a maximum of 15 years even though its charter permits loans of up to 20
years. Default on loan repayments is negligible and was less than 0.03
percent in 1978. In 1978 the Housing Bank had a net profit of 11 percent on
networth and paid a 9 percent dividend.
25.       The National Housing Corporation (NHC).  It was established in 1965
and its main objectives are to: (i) construct housing for civil servants and



-9-
middle and low income groups; (ii) recommend housing policy to Government; and
(iii) lend for housing construction by cooperatives and individuals. Between
1965-72, NHC constructed about 9,000 housing units. A target of 7,700 units
was set for NHC under the Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and three-quarters attain-
ment is expected. NHC's current program of constructing about 1,500 units a
year is based largely on construction of walk-up apartment blocks using
industrialized building systems. At present, NHC has 7 projects at various
stages of completion comprising 1,473 units, with 1,296 units or 88 percent
located in the Amman Governorate and the rest distributed in three out of the
four remaining governorates. In addition, detailed design is nearly complete
for a new town being developed by NHC at the outskirts of Amman city. The
town would contain 6,100 units, the cheapest of which would be affordable by
households with monthly income of about JD 100 ($339), equivalent to about the
30th percentile on the urban income distribution curve. NHC projects are
heavily subsidized. It obtains funds at 4.5 percent from the Central Bank and
lends to its clients at the same rate so that NHC operating expenses, mainly
salaries, are met by Government grants. Furthermore, Government land is
provided free, and land costs are recovered from beneficiaries of NHC projects
only if it has been purchased by NHC. Also, beneficiaries are not charged
property taxes until they have completed loan repayments.
Urban Conditions and Policies
26.       About one-quarter of the population of the Amman urban region
live in areas of uncontrolled housing and squatter settlements, characterized
by insecurity of tenure, overcrowding, poor housing conditions and limited
access to infrastructure community services. Occupancy in these areas is
estimated at 4 persons per room and rents average 25-35 percent of household
incomes. Density is high, estimated at 1,000 persons per hectare. Other
problems include high urban land prices, restrictive planning and building
regulations requiring minimum legal plot size of 300 m2, even though at least
25 percent of Amman's residential buildings are illegally constructed on
smaller plots. As a consequence of their irregular status, about one-half of
these residents are denied access to public services including water and
sewerage. For these areas, a pre-requisite to improvements in living
conditions would be achieved through legalization of tenure and change in the
building and planning regulations. The Government is reviewing its building
regulations and has recently passed a bill to lower the minimum plot size to
150 m2.
27.       According to the 1976-80 Five Year Plan, the total housing stock
required to satisfy demand is estimated to be 380,000 units by the end of
1980. However, only 336,000 units are expected to be available, implying a
shortage of 44,000 units. It has been estimated that about 10,000 new
housing units would be required each year to satisfy housing demand in the Amman
urban region, resulting from new household formation and in-migration during the
1980s. The existing public sector housing program has proved inadequate
to cope with the growth in demand and its principal beneficiaries have been
middle-income groups, provided with subsidized housing under the NHC programs.
NHC is expected to supply about 1,500 units per annum and the private sector,
with financial assistance from the Housing Bank, would provide an additional
3,500 units per annum mostly to middle -and upper-income residents. Hence,
the currently planned programs of the NHC and the Housing Bank would still



- 10 -
leave a shortage of some 25,000 units during the project period (1981-85).
Without the formulation of new urban policies, these remaining units would be
provided by expansion of uncontrolled areas and extension and densification of
squatter settlements.
28.       Despite rapid economic growth and declining unemployment in Jordan
since 1975, serious problems of low productivity and underemployment among
unskilled workers exist in squatter areas. Many squatter area residents
work in small establishments or in irregular jobs in the informal sector. The
median household monthly income for squatter settlements in Amman city was
estimated in 1979 at $245, which was only about one-half of the national
median urban income of $450. One-sixth of urban households have incomes below
the Bank-defined absolute urban poverty threshhold estimated at $235 per
month.
New Responses to Urban Needs
29.       During the 1970's, the Government attempted to improve the housing
situation and the institutional set-up for urban planning and administration.
The funding for NHC was increased and the level of its operations expanded.
In 1974, the Government established the Housing Bank to help channel more
savings into housing construction. In 1976, the Government established with
USAID assistance, the Amman Urban Region Planning Group (AURPG) to formulate
an overall development plan for the Amman region. AURPG submitted its final
report to the Government at the end of 1979. In addition, a series of seminars
to discuss planning issues, including housing, were held in various localities
under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister to provide a local input into
Government policies.
30.       The Government aims to promote growth outside the Amman urban region
through the preparation of regional development plans to help eliminate
regional disparities in income and economic growth, and by providing tax
holidays and other investment incentives for businesses locating outside the
Amman urban region. Furthermore, the implementation of the large-scale
development projects such as the potash and phosphatic fertilizer project
would further this objective, even though their location outside the Amman
region was determined not by policy, but by economic and technical considera-
tions. In addition the Government is strengthening the Cities and Villages
Development Bank to foster the development of small municipalities and villages,
and to help increase productivity and the attractiveness of life in smaller
towns, and to help slowdown migration from smaller towns to the larger towns
and Amman. Steps are also being taken to improve infrastructure services in
large urban areas. In Amman, a study of garbage collection and disposal
has recently been completed and is being reviewed by Government. Steps are
underway to augment the water supply to the Amman urban region from Azraq and
studies to supply the long-term water needs of the Amman urban region from the
Yarmouk River are nearing completion. The transportation needs of the Amman
urban region are also being studied by consultants and their interim report is
expected in mid-1980.



- 11 -
31.       The Government's determination to respond to Jordan's shortage of
housing and urban services, especially for the urban poor, has resulted in the
adoption of new approaches for providing shelter services. In 1979, the
Government commissioned a study to develop low cost replicable and financially
viable solutions to meeting Jordan's shelter needs. The consultants' report
recommended lowering of the minimum plot size, changing the planning and
building regulations and land tenure arrangements and broadening the access to
credit for housing. The study's findings were adopted following extensive
debate by a steering committee consisting of representatives of all the public
agencies concerned with urban development. The adoption of the study's
findings by the Government and their embodiment in the proposed project
represents significant progress toward the development of an overall strategy
for meeting Jordan's pressing urban needs. Through practical demonstration of
the viability of low cost sites and services and upgrading schemes, the
proposed project will help demonstrate the feasibility of the Government's new
approach.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project is a first concrete demonstration of the
Government's determination to provide low-cost shelter and related infrastruc-
ture and services in the Amman urban region and improve the living conditions
in the squatter settlements without resorting to extensive subsidies and with
maximum community participation. The Government first approached the Bank in
1977 with the project idea. Subsequently, Bank staff assisted the Government
in preparing the terms of reference for a consultant study which was completed
in October 1979, and assisted the Government in reviewing and supervising the
consultants' work. The National Planning Council (NPC) prepared the project,
with the assistance of consultants. The project was appraised in September
1979, with a follow-up appraisal in April 1980. Negotiations were held in
the City of Amman between June 11-14, 1980. The Jordanian Delegation was
headed by Dr. Hanna Odeh, President of the National Planning Council. The
Housing Bank was represented by Mr. Z. Khoury, General Manager, the Industrial
Development Bank by Mr. Al Hmoud, Head of the Small-Scale Industry Program,
and the Municipality was represented by Dr. Hisham Zagha, Director designate
of the Urban Development Department. A staff appraisal report entitled "The
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan - Jordan Urban Development Project - Staff
Appraisal Report" dated June 23, 1980 is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
33.       The project covers seven sites in the Amman region.  The primary
objective of the project is to provide shelter and related infrastructure and
community facilities to lower income groups at affordable prices with a
minimum of subsidies to ensure replicability. This project is seen by the
Government as the beginning of a longer term program to provide for shelter
and employment needs of the poorer urban dweller. Through the implementation
of the proposed studies and the upgrading component, the project would assist
the Government's efforts to revise the restrictive planning and building
regulations and land tenure policies, making them more conducive to home



- 12 -
ownership by squatter residents and providing them with greater access to
basic infrastructure services. The sites and services component will introduce
a new dimension to public sector housing in Jordan. The project would also
provide technical assistance to the public agencies responsible for the
development of low cost housing and infrastructure services to strengthen
their institutional and organizational capabilities. The project would
provide vocational and commercial training to the urban poor and would enhance
their employment opportunities by providing loans to viable small-scale and
handicraft enterprises in the project area. Finally, the project aims at
increasing the low female participation in the labor force by providing
specialized and locally sited training facilities. The project includes the
following main elements:
(a)  Development of 1,606 residential plots at North Ruseifa, 1,208 plots
at Marka and 2,049 plots at Quweismeh, covering a total of 90
hectares for 41,000 mostly low income residents of Amman region. A
total of 4,135 uniform plots of 100 m2 size would be provided for low
income beneficiaries and 679 plots of 150 m2 and 49 plots of 300 m2
would be offered for sale at market prices. All plots would have
individual water supply and sewerage connections. Electricity would
be provided to every plot and street lighting would be provided to
all vehicular roads, culs-de-sac and footpaths. Solid waste would
be collected from refuse bins to be located within 40 m of every
plot. One boys' and one girls' school combining primary and prepara-
tory grades and one basic health center would be constructed on each
site.
(b) Upgrading of four low-income settlements in the city of Amman
at Jofeh, Wadi Haddadah/Nuzha, East Wahdat, and Wadi Um er Rimam,
covering 21 hectare with a total of 15,000 people. The areas
selected represent the worst housing conditions in Amman, with 50
percent of the families below the absolute poverty level. The
improvements proposed are designed to meet the expressed priorities
of the inhabitants. Security of tenure would be provided, with
transfer of freehold title to existing residents. Roads and footpaths
would be surfaced, solid waste collection and sewer systems installed,
water supply distribution network rationalized including house
connections, electricity distribution connection and street and
footpath security lighting provided. Building material loans would
also be provided for home improvements.
(c) Small business assistance and manpower training through provision
of shops and workshop plots, loans and technical assistance and
training. About 257 workshop sites and 170 retail shop sites will
be developed in the new development areas and in East Wahdat. Of
these, about 52 workshops and 150 retail shops would have completed
core units and the remainder would be financed by loans from the
Housing Bank and other sources. Credit would be extended to small
businessmen for expansion or setting up new businesses. A vocational
center to offer pre-employment training and apprenticeship would be
built in Quweismeh and female training facilities would be set up in
demonstration houses on each new development site and in the up-
grading sites to train women in skills such as dressmaking, child
care, handicrafts, and component assembly.



* 13 -
(d)  Expatriate consultant services consisting of about 21 man-months to
assist in project design and supervision, 110 man-months to assist
in project implementation, 33 man-months to advise Government
on social planning and statistics and to develop comprehensive
housing policy, 8 man-months to review planning and building regula-
tions, 40 man-months for study of suitable new areas for urban
development and 26 man-months for training municipal staff; and 350
man-months of local consultants for design and swi-vrvision.
(e) Equipment for municipal maintenance services.
Project Implementation
34.       The Municipality of Amman, will have overall responsibility for
project implementation, with the assistance of consultants. The Municipality
has agreed to continue to employ consultants whose qualifications and terms of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement). The Urban Development Department (UDD), within the Municipality,
would be responsible for physical implementation of all project components and
for coordination of the design, operation and maintenance of project facilities
with other agencies. UDD would implement the upgrading component and, with
the assistance of the National Housing Corporation (NHC), carry out the
implementation of the sites and services components. The Amman Water and
Sewerage Authority (AWSA) would be responsible for supplying water and operat-
ing and maintaining the sewerage services at all the upgrading sites and at
the new sites in Quweismeh and Marka. The Water Supply Corporation (WSC)
would provide similar services for Ruseifa, but operation and maintenance
would be the responsibility of the Municipality of Ruseifa. The Municipality
will make arrangements for AWSA and WSC not to charge their normal connection
fees since they will be recovered from the beneficiaries through plot charges
(Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement). The Municipality of Amman would
provide municipal services and maintenance to all project sites except Ruseifa,
which would be serviced by the Municipality of Ruseifa. The Jordan Electric
Power Company (JEPCO) would supply electricity to all sites. To facilitate
the maintenance of project facilities by the specialized agencies, AWSA, WSC,
and JEPCO would appoint, as a condition of loan effectiveness, liaison staff
to review design and assist in the implementation of relevant project facili-
ties under their respective jurisdictions (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01(b) of the
Loan Agreement). The Housing Bank will act as bursar for the entire project
with the exception of funds earmarked for loans to small scale business which
will be handled by the Industrial Development Bank under its Small Scale
Industry and Handicraft Program (SSIHP). The Government would arrange with
the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) to operate the vocational training
center at Quweismeh and the other centers in the project (Section 3.02 of the
Loan Agreement). School and health centers would be staffed and maintained by
the Ministries of Education and Health, respectively, while community centers
will be maintained by the Ministry of Social Development. An extension
service would be set up within UDD to provide technical assistance to small
business, promote vocational training and the small business loans program,
liaise with relevant agencies involved with project implementation and monitor
progress in meeting project objectives. Tender documents for the first site
would be ready by December, 1980 and physical works are expected to commence
around July, 1981. The project would be completed around June, 1985.
35.       Land for the Ruseifa site and for part of the Marka site is
Government-owned, but land for the Quweismeh site, part of the Marka site



- 14 -
and all the upgrading is privately owned and will have to be acquired. The
Municipality has agreed on a schedule for acquiring the remaining project
sites (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement). The schedule has been designed
to enable comoletion of the land acquisition process for each site, approxi-
mately thirty to ninety days prior to the start of construction. The
Municipality will commence negotiations with existing owners upon signature of
the Bank loan. If the negotiations are not successfully completed four months
prior to the date specified for acquisition, the Municipality will initiate
expropriation proceedings to ensure timely acquisition of each site.
Implementing Agencies
36.        (a)  Urban Development Department (UDD).  UDD is a new department
created by the Municipality of Amman to implement the project and similar
schemes. Dr. Hisham Zagha, a qualified and suitable person, who as an official
of the NPC has been involved with this project throughout its preparation, has
been designated Director of UDD. Dr. Zagha would transfer to the Municipality
on July 1, 1980. UDD's director would be directly responsible to the Mayor.
In addition to the Director, a core staff consisting of a senior engineer,
an architect/planner, a community development officer and an accountant would
be needed to commence project design and implementation. This core staff will
be supplemented by two engineers seconded from the NHC, an accountant and a
quantity surveyor seconded from the Housing Bank and the liaison staff from
AWSA, WSC and JEPCO. The appointment of the Director of UDD and core staff by
the Municipality, as well as the appointment of the seconded staff by the
Housing Bank and NHC, except for the quantity surveyor who is not needed until
later in the project cycle, and the appointment of liaison staff by AWSA, WSC,
and JEPCO, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the
Loan Agreement). The quantity surveyor should be seconded by June 30, 1981
(Section 2.09(b) of the Project Agreement). For project implementation, UDD
would require 29 local professionals, assistants and secretaries, supported by
28 trainees and assisted by 7 expatriate consultants. UDD should be fully
staffed by December 31, 1981. UDD would be organized along functional lines
with four sections: Technical Services, Community Development, Financial
Control, and Estate Management. The Technical Services Section will be
responsible for engineering design, and supervision and liaison with service
agencies and technical ministries. The Community Development Section would
monitor the community development program and, with the Housing Bank, under-
take the beneficiary selection. It will also contain the Economic Development
Extension Service unit to provide technical assistance to small business and
monitor overall project implementation. The Financial Control Section would
establish accounting procedures, monitor and evaluate financial performance.
The Estate Management section would handle the acquisition and disposal of
property and ensure proper maintenance of project sites. Agreement was
reached on UDD's organizational structure during negotiations (Section 2.01(a)
of the Project Agreement).
(b) Industrial Development Bank (IDB). IDB was established in
1965 to finance private industry, tourism, and mining projects in Jordan. A
recipient of an IDA Credit in 1976, IDB has developed into one of the most
successful and vigorous development institutions in Jordan. In 1975, IDB
established its Small Scale Industry and Handicraft Program to help business
establishments employing five people or less, and utilizing simple machinery
or hand tools. The maximum amount that can be loaned under the program is



- 15 -
JD 4,000 ($13,500), or up to 80 percent of the cost of the machinery for each
unit. IDB charges an interest of 8 percent plus a fee of JD 15 ($50) per
annum, thereby increasing the effective interest rate to about 9 percent.
Maximum loan maturity is 5 years, including a six-month grace period. Since
its inception, IDB has approved loans amounting to JD 0.8 million ($2.8
million) under the program with an average loan of about JD 1,200 ($4,000).
(c) Vocational Training Corporation (VTC). Since its establishment
in 1977, VTC has concentrated on providing in-plant training courses ranging
from short skills-upgrading courses to three-year apprenticeship courses. VTC
skills upgrading courses have benefitted 360 workers to date, and 600 trainees
are currently enrolled in the apprenticeship program. The demand for VTC
courses exceeds the number that can be accommodated, even with all existing
facilities operating at full capacity on up to three daily shifts. A VTC
vocational training center is planned near Ruseifa to be partly financed by
USAID. This center and the proposed training center at Quweismeh to be
financed under this project, will help satisfy part of the demand and relieve
pressure on existing VTC facilities.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
37.       The total cost including contingencies is estimated at JD 17.0 mil-
lion ($57.6 million) of which JD 4.7 million ($16.0 million) would be in
foreign exchange. Physical contingencies are estimated at $2.8 million and
price contingencies at $ 8.4 million. Physical contingencies are estimated at
10 percent of infrastructure base costs for sites and services and 15 percent
for upgrading. For both domestically and internationally procured equipment
and works, price increases of 10.5 percent in 1980, 9 percent in 1981, 8
percent in 1982 and 7 percent per annum thereafter have been assumed. Unit
costs average about JD 1,870 ($6,300) per household in the sites and services
areas and JD 1,400 ($4,750) per household in the upgrading areas, including
the cost of community facilities and off-site infrastructure. In all, about
238 man-months of expatriate consultancy services and 350 man-months of local
consultancy services would be financed under the project at an estimated cost
per man-month of $12,300 for expatriate consultants and $4,300 for local
consultants. The costs for consulting services are comparable with those for
similar projects.
38.       The project financing plan is complete.  The Government would
provide JD 3.5 million ($11.9 million), the World Bank would provide JD 6.2
million ($21 million) and the Housing Bank would provide JD 7.3 million
($24.7 million) which would be madp available to the Municipality on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.01(b)(iii) of the Project
Agreement). The proposed Bank loan of $21 million would finance about 38
percent of total project cost (net of taxes), covering 100 percent of the
foreign exchange cost and about $5 million equivalent, or 12 percent, of the
local costs. Local cost financing is proposed to enable the Bank to make a
reasonably significant contribution to this first Bank-financed urban project
in Jordan aimed at improving living conditions and productivity of bene-
ficiaries who are among the poorest in Jordan and supporting policy changes
and institutional reform that have great social implications. The Bank loan
would be provided to the Government at 8.25 percent for 17 years including 4
years of grace. The Government would on-lend $13.9 million of the Bank loan



- 16 -
proceeds to the Housing Bank at 8.25 percent per annum for 20 years, including
4 years of grace, and would onlend $0.85 million to the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank at 6.5 percent for 10 years including .3 years of grace. The
Government would make the remaining $6.25 million available tc the Housing
Bank, for the financing of project facilities such as schools, vocational
training facilities and community facilities whose costs are non-recoverable
from project beneficiaries. The Government will bear the foreign exchange
risk. The terms and conditions for on-lending the Bank loan proceeds were
confirmed during negotiations. The proposed interest rates and maturities
would be incorporated in separate subsidiary loan agreements with the Housing
Bank and IDB (Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). Ratification of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements is a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections
6.01(a) and 6.02(b) of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
39.       Costs recovered from beneficiaries through plot charges include cost
of land, site preparation, on-site infrastructure, on-plot development, design
and supervision and project management. Land, site preparation and infrastruc-
ture cost relating to schools, community centers, vocational training facili-
ties and areas reserved for mosques would not be recovered. Plot charges in
new development areas would be differentiated to reflect plot accessibility,
road frontage and commercial potential while charges for plots in upgrading
sites would depend solely on size. The large residential plots of 150 m2 or
more will be sold for cash at market prices. For the other plots, a 5 percent
minimum downpayment would be required, with the balance to be repaid over 20
years at an interest rate of at least 8.5 percent per annum, which includes a
life insurance premium of about 1 percent. Building material loans would also
be available on similar terms. For commercial plots, shops and workshops, a
20 percent downpayment would be required with the balance payable over 10
years at 10 percent interest per annum. The Housing Bank would submit to the
Bank by December 31, 1981 model sale contracts to be entered into by the
project beneficiaries (Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement). Loans to small
businesses and handicrafts under IDB's Small-Scale Industry and Handicraft
Program would be made at 8 percent for 5 years plus a management fee of JD 15
per annum. Profits from the sale of the large residential and commercial
plots would be used to offset part of the costs of plots earmarked for the
lowest income beneficiaries. Agreement has been reached on the terms of cost
recovery (Section 2.01(b)(i) of the Project Agreement).
40.       About 77 percent of the cost of the upgrading schemes and 68
percent of the cost of the site and services will be recovered directly
through plot charges at interest rates of 8.5 percent to 10 percent per annum,
and the sale of the commercial, industrial and the larger residential plots.
Land, site preparation and infrastructure costs relating to schools and other
public facilities will be charged to the budgets of institutions responsible
for providing such facilities. Price differentiation and cross subsidies
would enable the cheapest plot option, including building materials loan
repayment to be affordable to 90 percent of the Amman urban population,
assuming that 25 percent of family income is devoted to housing and utility
payments. Beneficiary selection procedures encompassing strict application of
the income criteria for the sites and services areas and proof of residency in
the upgrading areas prior to project implementation, would ensure maximum



- 17 -
participation by low income families. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the selection criteria to be adopted (Section 2.01(b)(i) of the
Project Agreement). About 45 percent of the sites and services beneficiaries
and about 55 percent of the upgrading beneficiaries would be below the absolute
poverty level estimated at $235 per household per month in 1979 prices.
41.        The proposed 8.5 percent interest rate for long-term housing loans
is identical to the interest rate charged by the Housing Bank to individual
borrowers but is considerably higher than the 4.5 percent presently being
charged by the Housing Corporation. It is slightly positive in real terms
when compared to projected inflation rates. The inflation rate in Jordan was
7 percent in 1978 and 12 percent in 1979. It is projected at 10 percent in
1980 and 8 percent in 1981 and 1982. The Government recognizes the current
disparity of interest rates in the housing sector and has agreed to complete
within two years (mid-1982) of loan signature, a study of the housing strategy
including interest rates, and to seek the Bank's views and comments on the
findings and recommendation of the study (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Account and Audit
42.        The executing agencies would maintain separate accounts on their
operations directly relating to the project and UDD would submit quarterly
progress and financial reports to the Bank no later than six weeks after the
end of each quarter (Section 2.05(b) of the Project Agreement). The Housing
Bank and IDB would submit financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, not later than six months after their respective
fiscal years. The auditor's opinion would also cover reimbursement claims by
the Housing Bank and IDB against statements of expenditures (Section 4.02 of
the Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       Civil works for the sites and services component totalling JD 7.9
million ($26.8 million) would be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Municipal services equipment,
furniture, and equipment for the community facilities worth JD 0.9 million
($3.1 million) would also be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. For bid evaluation purposes, a 15
percent margin of preference or an amount equivalent to customs duties,
whichever is lower, would be applied to the equipment components of domestic
bids offering locally manufactured goods. Contracts for civil works for
upgrading areas totalling JD 1.4 million ($4.8 million) would be individ-
ually small and dispersed and would therefore be procured on the basis of
locally advertised competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. Consultancy services amounting to JD 1.3 million ($4.4
million) would be procured individually by the agencies responsible for
implementing the various components on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.
44.       The proposed loan would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 38 percent of total expenditures for civil work contracts;



- 18 -
(b) 50 percent of loans to beneficiaries for building materials
and to small-scale businesses for shops and workshops
construction, raw materials and equipment;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported furniture
and equipment; or 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured furniture and equipment for municipal and community
facilities; and
(d) 100 percent of expenditures for consultants' services.
The Bank would reimburse 50 percent of the approved loans made by IDB each
quarter under the small business assistance component. Disbursements against
building material loans will be made on the basis of statements of expendi-
tures certified by the Project Director. All supporting documentation for
building material loans will be retained by the Housing Bank and will be
available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project supervision.
About $0.7 million would be disbursed in FY81, $4.4 million in FY82, $7.5
million in FY83, $5.8 million in FY84 and $2.6 million in FY85. The Closing
Date would be December 31, 1985.
Project Justification
45.       The project represents a significant step in the development
of a new urban strategy in Jordan which addresses the shelter, service and
employment-related needs of the urban poor. Through its emphasis on afford-
ability and cost recovery and the introduction of appropriate design standards,
this project would have important demonstration effects and would provide the
basis for a long term program. The consultancy service would have the bene-
ficial effect of strengthening local, organizational, and institutional
capability in the sector. The economic rate of return for the sites and
services and upgrading components, amounting to about 72 percent of the
project costs, is estimated at 20 percent, based on the net increases in
imputed rental values attributable to the project. A 10 percent decrease in
cost would increase the rate of return to 24 percent while a 10 percent
increase in benefits would increase the rate of return to 23 percent. A 10
percent increase in cost or decrease in benefits will reduce the rate of
return to 18 percent and 16 percent respectively. Calculation of the rate of
return for the other components is not feasible because of the difficulty in
quantifying their related benefits.
46.       Project benefits will accrue to about 56,000 people in the seven
sites of the project areas. A total 1,025 jobs will be created at an average
incremental cost per job of $3,050, in 1980 prices.  About 400 people will be
trained annually under the project's vocational training program. About
two-thirds of the trainees would be women, which would serve to increase the
participation of women in the labor force, leading to higher household incomes
for the project beneficiaries, who are at the low end of the income distribu-
tion curve.



- 19 -
Project Risk
47.       There are two main risks associated with the proposed project.
First, the project's emphasis on cost recovery, including a higher interest
rate charge for this project compared with rates charged for public sector
housing loans in the past, is both politically and socially sensitive and will
require continuing strong Government support for the project during implementa-
tion. Continuing Government support is expected considering the concurrence
with the project objectives at the highest levels in Government and the com-
mitment of the Municipality and the other executing agencies to its successful
execution. Also, surveys show that beneficiaries are prepared to pay the
project costs in exchange for security of tenure and improved level of basic
infrastructure services. Secondly, project implementation may be hampered by
institutional weakness due to shortage of trained staff. This risk is
minimized by including in the project, considerable technical assistance to
the project implementation agencies and the Government. The other possible
area of potential risk relates to delay in acquiring land for the project
sites and delay in the provision of the infrastructure services by the
technical agencies and municipalities. In both these areas satisfactory
safeguards have been included in the project (paras 34 and 35).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement among the Bank, Municipality of
Amman, Housing Bank and the Industrial Development Bank and the draft Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. As indicated in the text and in Section III of Annex III of this
report, the additional conditions of effectiveness are: (i) the Housing Bank
and IDB subsidiary loan agreements have been ratified (Sections 6.01(a) and
6.02(b) of the Loan Agreement); and (ii) the Project Director, the core
project unit staff, the seconded staff, and the liaison staff (para 34) have
been appointed (Section 6.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 25, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-20 -                                                ANNEX I
Page I of 5
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVUAqS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            97.7                                                MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     14.7                              MOST RECENT       NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  ..         ..   1050.0               698.2                 1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    197.0     306.0    535.0               545.0                 1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-TEAR (MILLIONS)    1.7        2.3      3.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 42.7     49.6     54.9                45.7            '      63.4
POFULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   5.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     12.0
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED              2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                     17.0       24.0      31.0               40.7                   28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   133.0     165.0    204.0               598.6                   81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       44.0       45.8     46.6                44.0                   41.4
15-64 YRS.                      52.0        51.1     50.7                52.5                   54.7
65 MRS. AND ABOVE                4.0         3.1      2.7                 3.5                    3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
iTOTAL                            3.2        3.0       3.3                 2.6                   2.7
URBAN                            5. O0c     4.5      4.7                 4.5                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0      49.0     46.0                41.6                   34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0      16.0      13.0               13.7                    8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.4        3.5      3.4                 2.9                    2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        ..        ..               16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       220.0       81.0     94.0                93.5                  106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                .92.1       67.0      62.0              103.6                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)      '57.4        40.0     41.0                69.8                   65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     13.8       11.0      11.0               17.5                   33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    30.0      22.0     16.0                17.5                    8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.0      52.0     56.0                54.4                   63.1
INFANT MaRTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND) ..      86.0       ..                  ..                   66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         ..      56.0               62.5                   65.9
URBAN                             ..         ..      60.0               82.9                   80.4
RURAL                             ..    .    ..      50.0               45.1                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         ..        ..                 ..                   62.3
URBAN                             ..         ..       ..                  ..                   79.4
RURAL                             ..         ..       ..                  ..                   29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        5900.0     2680.0   1940.0              4688.7                 1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   1650.0     1050.0    953.0              1751.5                 1227.5
POPULATION PER BOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          557.0      960.0    833.0               635.5                  480.3
URBAN                             ..      740.0
RURAL                             ..     5750.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..       36.5     39.6
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.3        6.1
URBAN                            5.5         ..
RURAL                            5.1         ..
AVERAGE NHMSBE OF PERSONS PER ROOn
TOTAL                             ..         ..
WEAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PURCE??
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           17.0         ..
UUAN                            39.2
RURAL                            1.0         ..



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                Page 2 of 5
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                             REFERENCE GItOUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAC%
- IDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLlMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 77.0         73.0/d    83.01d                76.4                     99.7
MALE                  94.0        80.0/d    87.0/d                 92.2                    101.0
FEMALE                59.0        66.0/d    79.0/d                 59.9                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 25.0         33.0/d    53.0/d                33.3                     34.4
MALE                  36.0        41.04d   60.01d                  41.9                     33.5
FEHALE                13.0        24.01d    46.0/d                 24.2                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   3.0           3.01d     4.01d                 9.8                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0         39.01d    36.01d                39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                          21.0         23.01d    21.01d                25.1                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        32.0           .-       70.0                 39.7                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0          9.21d    27.31d                15.3                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         38.0        162.01d   191.01d               139.0                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         20.014    45.01d                29.0                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSAND POPULATION                  18.0         24.01d    18.01d                22.2                     63.3
CINEbA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           0.9/d       ..                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       432.0        569.0     715.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    5.3          5.5       6.0                   9.6                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              43.9         33.8      27.0                  47.0                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 26.3         32.8      39.0                  23.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                25.5         24.8      24.2                  26.1                     31.5
MALE                                 46.7         45.6      44.4                   47.4                    48.9
FEhALE                                2.7          2.9       3.0                   4.7                      14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                2.3         2.4       2.1                    1.9                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
IGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
NIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           *-     230.0                 262.5
RURAL                                ..           ..     100.0                 140.4                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     206.0                 202.1                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     135.0                 122.2                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      17.5                  22.1
RURAL                                *-           *-      22.5                  33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1952-61; Id East Bank only.
April, 1980



- 22 -                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are drawn froc toneata generlly judged the end  authoritative and reliable, it fhorld aleo be rated ehet they ray ret be ieter-
tutionally casyarable becaase et the lark at attedardleed definttiats atd aonaepts used by differeet aenetreta  ie ralleatieg the date.  The date  ree,  one-
theless. utetal ta desreibe orders ef  agritade, iedi-ate trerde, aed characterize  netrait maiJr diffleree  bhet=eenaea. Ln.i
The reterenae ger pe net (1) the  aine aonatry graap of the t-bjeca cauntry  ed (2) e cenetry group vith mauebhat higher average itrnce  th.a tbe caurtry genap
af the subject country (exceey  fee  Capital SDeplun  Oil Exporters' Stoop cheer "tiddle Ieoaae Nareh Africa nd hiddle Eamt" is ahosen hecaaae at ttanager
nori-cultural affinitia)  I. the reftre-ce grasp data the aeragesea  pepalactee weighted arithmetic rears far earh indioator avd nhnvr only when at
least halt at the canetetie  inagenap hat date Inr tbnt indicator   Diner the aseerage at cnunetrem among the tndiaators depends an the availability  fe
data and s net aettars, caution mttus  e exercteed Sn relaring averages of tee indi-atn- to  anther.  These averaget err only useful in aomparing the value
of ace -idiator at a tie aong the aountry end referetel groeps.
LAND AREA (thoasand sqikn.)                                                               lorulatiac rer Phynlnan -   Ponl-aItta  auciaea bS ousber or practiaung pay-
Tonal - Totul surtace tree a-mp,ititg land area and inland vaters.                        silc-a  qutliafid   -oa aIedical achao  at -ni-eomity level.
Asrin-ltural - EatiCate of agri-alturarea ened tempanarily or percanently               Populatiot per barging Peeson - PFpulation  diaided ho nhber of pra-tiaing
fnr areps, pnt-ures, carket end kitahen gaedens or te lie fIllnv; 1977 data,            male ad female graduate turret, prantloaD nurses, sad assistaec
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita eact-atee   at arrenet market prices, eel-            ruratn and natal) dIvIded bytheir urben t    ruah  -r Ygaptian (ttbes
aulaced by sane aaeveeeone meehed anIs'World  gunk Atlas (1976-78 bhais); 1960,           available in public and private genertl end ape_iallned hoapital and Te
1970, and 1978 data.                                                                      h.bilitatite aentera.  ftHapitaln ere eeteblinhments permanently staffed
ENtERGY CDONDSUMPTION PER CAPITDA - inasal anneanpnlan et areralal energy (real             by at leant tee phyytaian. latablibhmenen yh nv-idirg prieipally eastediel
ENEGYONUhfIONPeCAIIA-nnul pti of energy(coal asre see net intluded.  Raral banpiali, heweve. includs he lth and  tedital
and lignite, peterle=, natural gas and hydro-, -nleme snd geothermal eDen-                certees net permanently dd staed by a phyit  oian (but by  a        ra.dioeD  saletase.
trinity) in                                                                                --logrF at anal equiealene per apita; 1960, 1970, and 1979  nurse, midwife,  tr.) which offer ie-patient aat-datiee  nd proide I
data,                                                                                     limited range of edital facilitien    Far stati-ti-al psep.ee I       erbhe  bhapi-
POP  LATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            taiF itcluda aWO. Preilpeepitae end edital and maternitY aentet.
Total Pepulaticn, Kid-Year (nillions) - An of July 1; 1960, 1970, med 197S              -d-1sainns pee Hfepital Bed - pitel rasher at admieniena te or disuharges
data,ls f-  h-npitels divided by the rsber of bade.
Urban topulatien (peecent et etotal) - Ratin of urban to creel populatioe
differeet defititnsn at frban areas nay affeft neeparability of data                hOUSING
e rolnontrieel; 1969, 1971, and 1978 data.                                            Average tize of Iteneld (eenant pee heunebold  - trtal, urban  and renal-
Populstion Poen)  -ciot0                                                                  A htusehold can          at   a greup no indleidualt eke there living quarters
Population Sn year 2DOO - Currant papelatiro  projections are hnsed en 1980             and their male  meals.  A brander  or ladger cay on  may not h  included in
total prlation hy age anad see and theSr  ertnality and  eertility rates              the houeehold for etatintical purposes.
Prajeation para-eters fee mortality rates eepeina ot chree level,aseu-              Average runhee mf Pemains er room - total, urban  and reel - Average rai-
ing life enpeatancy It birth increasieg vibh country's per -aspita trnme              her at peetone yer reot 11 all urhan, and eural occupiedaenoneionml
level, and femaln life expectancy stabilizing at 77.5 years.  The .ars-               dwellingn, respectively.  Dwell gs  xcaladanon-Ormneemsttrcraeeand
meters ftr fertility  rate ean- have three levels aeses-dg decline in                 un-ocpied parts
fertility aecording en irCOne  lscal esd peat ft-ily planning perf.retmee.          Anc.es te  Rletetriity (Pneree  af deellinga) - cetul, urban, and rural -
Raeh tOnetry in ther aseigoed aneof thlse eni  combimatirnn of martality              Cnnventienal drellinge vith electricity in living quarters es
and tertility  creeds tee peojenelm parpoesef                                         ot tetal, uIban, and raret dielllnI reepeetlaelc
Steactonart eoPulatlen - Iretest lernary pepalselrn thmere is nO gmanch elate
the birth rate is equal Sn the demeb rate, and alse the age ntruoturehre-    EDUCAT1tO
mains constant   Thin ia achieved taly after tertility rates decliee to             Ad1usted EnrolLeent laden
the replaneme.t leuel of unit net reproduetian rete, eheneae  generatier              primary nahool - itol, male and tamale - lanes total, mOale and DenDe
ofesenereplanes Itself erectly.  The ntatioeaey population site ea.                     enrollment at al egen at the primary level as peraseteges at respeclive
aetisated an  the bai  af tha pr tjected ohareaterietias of eta population              pretery mrbeel-agt prpalattees; 1rermlly inclades ahildre= aged 6-1l
in the year 7000, sod the rate at decline at fertility  eate to reylace-                years hut adiusted for different legthn ef periery edunatio.; for
neat level.                                                                             countriesnvttharivtesal education enenllmect a ayexceed 10O PnerSen
veetationary pop=latio= is eraehed - The year when stationary population                  elet s.es  pupiln tee halts or abeve the efticial scheol age.
tire hbe  bkee rea.hed.                                                               Seeodarv school - total. male end taale - Cemnpted as aboet  neneodaty
Pasulatlee Dencnity                                                                         edreatden requires an least tent yearn et appreved primary _nstirniieh;
Par as. ha. -  id-ymar pepulatien per square kilemerer (100 hentarma) ef                  provides general, vocational, or teacher training Snaterrtirea fin  pUPiF
total area.                                                             osfally ft 12 to 17 years of aCge; iatrrespondsue coaas are generally
Per us  he ageicultural land - Cteputed as eblet for agricultural land                    secluded
only.                                                                                    ..aatinly  f1 trrel7lyne  (pace  at mecdpry   ... .e.t.ma  instttutt...rel
Population Age Structure  (teescet) - Children (0-14 years), arking-age (11-                incLude teahninal  industrial  re eherrga   whiab opersteldpn-
hi years), end retired (S6  yearn and amer) am perentages of sid-year ptpu-               dently oe as departments ot secondary inmtltutlnns
lanler; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                      dpal-tleaer  raind   - gritmary. -nd seco=dary - TVtal students aeroled in
Pteulation Grovth hate (percent) - Itetl - Acasel growth retea of treaD mid-                prim ry med nenendaty levels divided  by numbers ot teachers in the
year pepalations for "IOD-60, 1960-70, aed 1970-7B                                        correapnedeg 1eve1.
levaletle     _ Growth tate (percent) - urban - Annual grm.th rates of urban petu-        Aduit litedaci  nate (percent) - Ltterateadult- (able to read and aelee)
latien, for 1950-60, 1960-70, med 1970-78.                                                  ampereetage of tetal adult population aged 15 yearn erd over.
Crude Birth  Itue (Per thousand) - Annua1 live births per thousand of rid-year
popuaition; 1960, 1910, end 1978 date.                                              CoNsMPTION
Crude Death Rate (refSr ehuamd) - Anneal deaths per th-usard tof  id-year               Passenger Cars (per thousand rpoplation) - Pasnenger cars nampeime miner
pepulttion; 1960, 190, and 1978 data,                                                   ontssting le  than eight permons; excludee ambulances, heeruen end
Geese lete tdutia  Rata - Average numbee af daughteena  ema  will beer in                  military vehicles
bee  earma rapredu-tive peeild if ateag periears present age-speeii intee-             Radio Receeiv   frs ee thoeuegd htrulac-ar) - Alt types of relasters tea radi
Cility rates; usually five-yeer averages ending in 1960, 1970, and 1977.                beoadasts en general public pee thosand of papelatios; eNludes unli-
Family Planning =. Aceypt,p Anesal (thousands) - Annual esinhar of eeepteen               cemeedeenere  in counres n=d Sr yeers vhen regiYtestir-    af radfo  seet
of birth-contrel dealrem  andar easpieer of metittal family ple asig progras            was in etfent  dta fog  recent yeers may see be cmeparable since mast
F    btly Planni=g - leers (iereet ot  married  Ame l) - Peree=ttge ef  earried           cpu     .tries abaliat-d licensing.
anen, of ohild-beerieg age (15-4i yearn) ahb  are birth-a=t-rl devices to             TV bteie.ven   (per     lir..a.d ipa,lntirn) - Tf receivers far hemadoe,t Sr
all carried .e..e  is meet age groupe                                                   general publi per ebersand pepslueatn;  secludes aellbensed TV receivers
FOOD  ND N~~~~~~~~ITRITION ~~~~~innea-tri- and in Yearn when egieteat ien of It st  e  in effet.
rdex at Pcd terdncrien per Cepite (1969-71101) - Inden of per capita annual             tSaref. dai lyi g     (Per tnnerese            defined as ah perie e  pub-
pradunetan of all fend cnmedtotir.  trodactio=excainden serd end teed a=d               licetion  devoted yimalily en reordding general mama.  It is  rnaSdsered
it en nalardar year basis.  CoRanditiem never primary goods (e. S  sugerre             et  be "daily" if it appears an least fear timet-nark.
instead of sugar) vhiah  rar  edible and conta=l -anri-nse (e.g  coftee and           Cinema Annual Aten=da=ce sea Capita ret Tear-Based en the nuber of
tea are exladed). Aggregate productio= of e.ch country is based  =                      tikets said duri=g  the year,  onoludSeg adm-isnins to drive-tn cinema,
n         --inal average producer price .eighte; 1961-65, 1970, mcd 1978 data.          an  shld datitts
Far capita eupely of cainriem  (pereent at estuiraenets) - Ceinputed teenr        eu
energy eqnvile-tt    rt feed  upplie  available in coutry per sapita              LABOR FORCE
pee day.  Available supplies conprise domestic productio=, Imports lens             Teta1 Laker Foreo  (thousands) - farnocicelly entice peet .n, including
exparts, and changes Sm stnek    t s=pplies  exclade animal fend, needs,              armed Error  and cerplayed but excludi=g  rtenewivis, etudente. eta
quactities sed in food prnorsuing, and lasses in diuteibatlen   Require-              Defiritio=t ft various couetirn see eno  nampurable; 1960, 1970 end
cents  eres estimated by FAO bhned en physiological eeedi far se seD anSi-            1971 d90a.
clay end health  -nsidering e-eirene=tal te-per-ture, body aeights, age                  l  feceat -Fr   lbor faren as perenrtege of -tm1 labhr force
endsear dineribution ot popurs-ton, end rllestne 10 1eeat  toe winne at             Agriculture (ararcet) - Labor force in Faming, ferestry  lancing and
bruanbald level; 1961-65, 1970, ard 1977 data.                                        fithing a  percentage of eareD labor torte; 1960, 1970 end 1979 date
Per caPita nuppic ef protein (grams per day) - Protein nontent of pee capita          Induogry (asece-t) - Labor torce in mining, construction, manutactr9 na
art supply af fond per day. Net supply af food is defined am bave   ne-               a=daienetricity, eater and gas an percentage of total labor force  1960,
qulee=snin for all ountries eemtblinhed by USDA pr-vide far miniu                    1970  and 1978 dt.
allawane of S0 greet at tetal proteir  pea day and 20 graes of aei=al end          FParinipation hate (cement) - total, rein  and tesale - Participation or
pulls protes, of vhich 10 genes should be animal protin.  Tb nu  stand-               activity rates are rro=uted as notal, mule, and temule lebot farce as
ard_ ace lver  than three of 75 Sran  of tota1 protein san  23 areas of               perentrages at  etoa, male end female populatiat of all aget renpecnicely;
ac Fe1 Fratein us an average for the acrld, proposed by FAO in the Thief              1960, 1970, end 1975 data.  These are ILO's participtio= reaten reflecting
aid Pond Survey; 1961-6, 1971 and 1977 data.                                                   s of           h  p 
Pee capita crotain surply fro= maci_l and rulse           t- .r-etn mupply of tend de-  mag                                                    treed.  A ffc -ets-
riced from eeleale end pulses iS grass per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.   Ecanuit -efendre=c Rtr  - hatie of population sdn e 15
Child (anet 1-u) Mortalitv nase (per titunerd)  - Annu tl deaths per thent iantd i         en tI the c l lab=r fored.
age grouP 1-4 ye_r, cc children in this age group; far sort developing cove-
criel  data derived fran life tables; 1960, 1970 end 1977 dana.                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
tercensage at Private IDCO= (Intl in cash and kind) - te-eceid by rinhent
LIfe Eapatterny atLBirth (yss  -tAeregenambef of ytsr  of life  -elon                      I percent, rinhent 20 percent, poorest 00 percent, and p--rcsn  40 pe.ect
at birch; 1960, 1970 snd 1978 date.                                                      of     e o h.
Inftnt tortality Rate (par thoueand) - An=ual deaths of infants under ore year   POvERTy TARGET GROUPS
of age per tousaend live birste.                                                      Intimated Absolute Poverty Incore Level (01) prerv caite) - urban and cret 1-
Attest to stte Wlairer (percent of population) -  reeal, urban, and rural -                Absolute poverty fraome level is that ircume level below vhich a esnimal
Nuhber of people (total, urban, and rural) vth reasonabie access en safe                 nutritto=ally adequate diet plan esnentiel  nec-trod renqnle=emss is net
cater supply (inlude. traited usrfane reot.   or untreated bht unn-rtmei-ntnd          tff.rdelef
watr sunk us thac frn protentsd bIreblet, epritng, and sea itary welie) an             Estieted Reiative Poverty Incom  Level (uSS par eunice) - urban and easel -
percentagee af their respec-i-e papulatiorn   In en urban areattubie                     Ral reletive poverty Secant level is  nc-third of average pet capita
fountain or rtasdpset Located ort mtem than 200 eet.rS fram a hause cay be               Feaeroal Simote of the i-u=try.  l-hu  leetl is derived ferne tbe  rsal
-nuide-ed an being nithic reneonable scee  of tehat house.  It rurl trees               level nith adjusteatn  tee bsebr  taut of livi=g in arben areas.
rea...a..blea acces uid imply chat the heases.fe cc f   esbean of the  .esnehold       Zssiested  Porulatioc seine Absolute Poverty  eonine Level Ipercent) -ehrba
do not have to speed a dinproyernlorste part of the day in fetntSeg the                  and rural - Featent of potulatiet (urban and rural) wIt are 'abtolute poor"'
familyr c ater neteis.
incesste anfcroca Disposal (crent of ronuintioc- tdtli. tehn. aId
rural - Sunber of people (toeal, urban, and ersr1) served by nanrette
dispoanl as pe-centages of their respective populations  Elnresa din-                                                  Ectonoic and Social Data Dirisirn
FasIl say includr the nallenctee end dispesal, tith ur cithaut creatuent.                                         Earomi A=inlynin and Prn-j-tio.s Depert-ect
nf lumen ecc-ent and sante-eater by eater-lame nysees or the ant of                                                                  April, 1980
pit privies and similar isvsallatlns.



23 -
ANNEX T
P-a;* 4 c-f 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PROWCT IN 1978                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROW1H (,. constant prices)
USS Mn.         %                     -  1961 -66             192 -75       1976 -78
GNP at Market Prices           2332.0        100.0                          7.7                9.0             7.1
Gross Domestic Investment       775.0          33.2                         5.9                 9.1           11.5
Oross National Saying           610.0         26.2                          1.3               -0.7            -8.1
Current Account Balance        -163.0
Etcports of Goods, NFS          816.0          35.0                        14.6               18.0             9.5
lIports of Goods, NFS          1858.0         79.7                          6.5               12.6             9.3
CJTPUT, LiBOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                    Labor Force-/                    V. A. Per Worker
USS ln.    L ALkd                              %                     US            V
Agriculture                     81.4        9.6                   115.0    30.0                     707.0        32.1
Industry                       212.9       25.2                    38.2    10.0                    5573.0       252.9
Services                       549.4       65.2                   221.6    58.0                    2479.0       112.5
Unallocated                       -          -                      8.0      2.0                       -           -
Total/Average
b43.7      10O.O                  382.8      21 47                              loc. 0
General Goverranent
!T ii Kn.)    _   % of 09
I=YN8     1978        19'7
Current Receipts                   242.1            42.8          51.7
Current Zxpenditure                211.0            37.3          42.0
Current Surplus                      31 I             5         -
Capital lEpenditurea               148.5            26.2          23.0
&xWroal Assistance (net)             59.2           10.4           6.0
PiT. CW.DIT and PRICES                      173           1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
tr3:lion     outstanding end periodT
Alney and Quasi Money                       176.1         219.7        288.4         376.3       464.3         597.4
Bank credit to Public Sector                 38.8          41.7         37.2    -    60.5         72n8        103.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                59i3          81:3        120.8        196.4        229.8        313.8
- (Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            80.5          82.1         94.9         91.3         94.3        105.5
Go. .:a' Price Isid.x (1975 - 100)           74.8          89.3        100.0        111.5        127.7        136.6
Aunal percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          11.1          19.4         12.0         11.5         14.5          6.9
Bank credit to Public Sector                 64.1           7.8        -10.8         62.6         20.3         41.6
Bank credit to Private Sector                23.8          37.1         48.6         62.6         17.0         3f.5
WNFOs  All conversions to dollars in this table 8ri at the OVEragc exchange rate frevaihtng during tte per3oJ
covere r.
1.1 Total iIIuor force; unlOihPloyed are allocato l to sector of thieir nernal occupation. "Unrllocated" eonrists
mainly of unemployed w6rkers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicsbA44



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TIUDB PAMENTS AND CAPITAL FIDWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENSS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1976     1977      1978                                                  US $ Mln
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NYS           551        692       816              Phosphates                            57.2    28.&
Imports of Goods, NFS         -1271     -1650    -1858                Fruits and Vegetables                 42.0    20.7
Resource GaP (deficit --)                 9-58                        Manufactured goods                    25.8    12.7
CheNsc&ls                            10.9       5.
Interest Payment  (net)          25         22       23
Workers' Remittances            396        424       458
Other Factor Payments (net)    -            -        _
Net Transfers                   381        504       398               All other comodities               .2         33,:
Balance on Current Account       82        - 8     -163                     Total                         203.1   100.0
Direct Foreign Invwstment                                            EXTERIUL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 197
Net MLT Borrowing
Loans Received              125        301       317                                                         US $ Ml:
Amortization                -160     _=14 8     -121
Subtotal                     -35       153       196                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              825.0
Capital Grants                   -          -                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             -10         11        39               Total outstanding & Disbursed              825 
Other items n.e.i               -76         399 49-                                              1/
Increase in Reserves (+)         39       195       121              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978-
Grous Reserves (end year)       504        677      923
Net Reserves   (end year)       470        654      894                Public Debt  Lncl. guaranteed                6.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related MateriAls                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports
of which:  Petroleum        112       131
RATE OF EXCHANGE
JD 1.00 - US$                    3.01       3.04      3.27
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
November 15, 1979
EMENA CP IT-C



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
(as of May 31, 1980)
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
----$ Million-------
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number    Year       Borrower          Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Nine credits fully disbursed                                    35.1
Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan
386        1973       "         Power                           10.2       0.4
498        1974       "         Irrigation                       7.5       0.9
534        1975       "         Education II                     6.0       1.5
570        1975       "         Power II                         5.0       0.9
639        1975       "         Tourism                          6.0       4.5
780        1978       "         Water Supply III                14.0       6.0
1617       1978   The Arab
Potash Co.   Potash Extraction        35.0             21.2
1688       1979   Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan    Power III                15.0             13.9
1781       1979                 Education III            19.0             19.0
/a    1980      "          CVDB                     10.0             10.0
TOTAL                                        79.0   83.8      78.3
of which has been repaid                            0.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b            79.0   83.1
Total undisbursed                            64.1   14.2      78.3
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1980)
------ $ Million --
Year         Obligor                     Type of Business          Loan      Equity   Total
1974  Jordan Ceramic Ind. Co. Ltd.  Ceramic Tiles                   1.6       0.2       1.8
1975/
1978  Jordan Fertilizer Ind. Co.    Phosphatic Fertilizer  70.0 /1   6.7               76.7 /1
1979  Jordan Lime and Silicate          Building Materials          2.5       0.7       3.2
1979  Jordan Securities Corp.           Money & Capital Market                0.7       0.7
Total Commitments                                           74.1 /1   8.3       82.4/1
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or Cancelled                  50.1 /1    -        50.5
Total Commitments now held by IFC                           23.5       8.3      31.8
Total Undisbursed                                        59.5        1.6      61.1
/1   Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other participants.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
Cr. No. 386:  Power Project; US$10.2 Million Credit of May 24, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: August 21, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is to help the conversion from diesel to steam powered
generation by adding two 33 MW steam generating units and one 13 MW combustion
turbine, all to be installed at a new power station at Zerka, near Amman and
by providing management consultancy services to assist the Jordan Electricity
Authority in organizing and expanding its power generation and transmission
operations. The Project has been satisfactorily completed despite initial
delays; the combustion turbine unit was commissioned in May 1975 and the two
steam units in August 1977. A claim by the electro-mechanical contractor
which delayed the closing of the credit has been settled.
Cr. No. 498:  Northeast Ghor Irrigation and Rural Development Project; US$7.5
Million Credit of July 25, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August
1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is part of an overall development scheme for the east
bank of the Jordan Valley, other parts of which will be financed by the KfW,
USAID, and the Kuwait Fund. The project consists of the agricultural devel-
opment of 7,700 ha net, of which 6,660 ha are already under irrigation, and
the provision of rural facilities for domestic water supply, health, educa-
tion of the irrigation system by a Korean contractor is proceeding satisfac-
torily. All structures have been completed, most equipment and materials are
on site and pipe laying is slightly ahead of schedule. All schools are
completed, furnished and are now being operated by the Education Department
and all health center buildings are completed. Several grants from USAID for
training, applied research and assistance in management of the farmer's
association should improve the Jordan Valley Authority's efforts to accomplish
the agricultural development objectives of the project which have so far been
neglected. Cost overruns amounted to about 72 percent of total project costs
and have been met by the Government.
Cr. No. 534:  Second Education Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of March 12,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is designed to expand vocational and technical educa-
tion, to promote quality improvements in secondary education by replacing
uneconomically small, rented school buildings and providing schools with
adequate workshops, and to support integrated rural development projects in
the Jordan Valley through a pilot scheme of non-formal basic education. The
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
project includes construction, furniture and equipment for the following
institutions: a Polytechnic at Irbid; a training complex at Aqaba; a Hotel
Training School at Amman; three comprehensive secondary schools; extension
of preparatory and secondary schools (seven pre-vocational workshops; five
science laboratories, four women's craft centers); and a rural development
center. Overall project implementation is about 2 years behind schedule due
to initial delays in selecting project consultants. However implementation of
major project components is now proceeding satisfactorily. It is expected
that the time already lost in construction will be regained and that schools
will be ready for occupancy during the 1980/81 school year. Technical assis-
tance being provided by UNDP and ODM is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 570:  Second Power Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project adds 33 megawatts of steam power plant to total generat-
ing capacity. It also includes reconditioning of the diesel-electric power
station at Marqa and a Power Development Study for Southern Jordan. The
project is physically completed and in commercial operation. After settling
disputes with the contractor the final disbursment of the credit proceeds has
been accelerated.
Cr. No. 639:   Tourism Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of August 12, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project includes the construction of tourist accommodation and
related facilities near the Petra Entrance, and the construction of visitor
facilities and archaeological preservation works in the Petra Basin as well
as the resettlement of about 96 Bedouin families currently living in the
Basin. The Project also provides for visitor facilities, infrastructure,
archaeological preservation works at Jerash, and technical assistance.
Schematic plans and cost estimates for the Petra Entrance Facilities, includ-
ing staff housing are under preparation. Procurement of the first lot of
equipment is proceeding on schedule and bids for the Bedouin resettlement
housing have been reviewed by the Association and implementation would be
by Jordan Housing Corporation. The civil works contract has been awarded
and archaeological work on both sites are proceeding satisfactorily with
assistance from UNESCO. Construction activity, which was slowed down due to
poor weather, to the discovery of several tombs at Jerash, and to the necessity
for deeper excavations than originally anticipated at Petra, has now picked up
momentum.
Cr. No. 780:   Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$14.0 Million
Credit of May 19, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is part of the on-going 1978-81 program of the Amman
Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), to expand water supply and sewerage
services in Amman, including those areas where the urban poor reside. The
project consists of the construction of approximately 207 km of water and 225
km of sewerage mains, laterals and house connections, a 4,000 m3 reservoir,
15,000 meters and related equipment, and training. The improved sewerage



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
services resulting from the project would help protect groundwater resources
in the Amman area from pollution. Overall physical implementation of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Because of heavy precipitation during
the past rainy season, AWSA was able to increase its water production to a
high level of 3,000 m3/hour during April 1980. Water service also improved
with the high level of production. AWSA has recently appointed a financial
manager, which, together with USAID-financed technical assistance, is expected
to strengthen AWSA's financial operations.
Loan 1617:      The Arab Potash Project; US$35 Million Loan of October 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project is the largest industrial project ($428 million total
cost) ever undertaken in Jordan and is aimed at producing 1.2 million tons
of potash from Dead Sea brine via solar evaporation. The project consists of
a solar evaporation and brine transfer system, a harvesting system, a refinery,
infrastructure facilities and an associated township. All the major contracts.
for the project have been awarded. The revised capital cost estimates indicate
a 7 percent increase due to higher than anticipated cost of the mechanical
works contract and the inclusion of screening and compacting facilities.
Overall project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
Loan 1688:      Third Power Project; US$15 Million Loan of May 4, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: October 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Third Power Project is an integral part of Jordan's 1979-82
Power Development Program whose long range objective is to progressively
interconnect the Northern, Central and Southern regions of Jordan into an
economic and reliable national power system. Specifically, the project would
supply the power needs of the potash complex at Ghor Safi, the phosphate rock
mining works at El Hassa, the cement plant at Rashadiya and rural distribution
loads in Central Jordan. Physical implementation of the project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1781:      Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 21,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: March 12, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is designed to assist the Government in training skilled
manpower required in implementing the economic development plan, improving the
quality of education and enhancing the Ministry of Education's management
capabilities. The project would expand technician and vocational training,
increase the supply of teachers, improve agricultural education, expand adult
education, upgrade school building maintenance and establish a computerized
management information system in the Minsitry of Education. Contract for
preparation of bid documents and supervision of construction for all project
institutions was signed in October 1979. Proposals for the hardware and
software for the management information system are under review. All aspects
of project implementation are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan        Cties and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) Project; US$10 Million
Loan of              , 1980; Date of Effectiveness:  Not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project would help establish CVDB as a development bank for
municipalities and villages, and provides a line of credit to finance eligible
subprojects over a two year period. It also includes a technical assistance
component to (i) train CVDB; (ii) undertake a study of the ways and means of
increasing productive projects in local communities; and (iii) provide an
advisor to assist CVDB's management.



- 31 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1
JORDAN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare               15 months
the Project:                                       (July 1978 - October 1979)
(b)  The Agency which has prepared the                  The National Planning Council
Project:                                          with the help of consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank and date of the first Bank mission
to consider the project:                          July 1977
(d) Date of Departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                           September 8, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                June 14, 1980
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                     October 31, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government to complete study of housing strategy including interest
rates, within two years (para 41);
(b) Municipality to continue to employ consultants satisfactory to the
Bank (para 34);
(c) Municipality to acquire land for the project sites in accordance
with an agreed schedule (para 35);
(d) Housing Bank (HB) to second quantity surveyor to Urban Development
Department (UDD) by June 30, 1981 (para 36);
(e) HB to submit model sale contracts by December 31, 1981 (para 39).



-32 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a) Director of UDD to be appointed (para. 36);
(b) UDD to appoint core staff (para 36);
(c) National Housing Corporation to second two Engineers to UDD
(para. 36);
(d) Amman Water and Sewerage Authority, Water Supply Corporation,
Jordan Electric Power Company to appoint liaison staff (para. 36);
(e) Housing Bank and Industrial Development Bank Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments to be ratified (para. 38).



<, . l C - <-N 3renu S_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCATIONS OF PROJECT SITES
-  '  >  (  < <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JORASIN   SISEH                                                                                                      i            PCT AEAS  RA [ROADS
->\ XttSq t \g         NO OTHER
JORD  RD AAN
URBAN  DEVELO RMENT PROJE C
QUWEIS                                                             PROJECT  AREAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA            TN
W IORgmna&,su,dsm                          ,<fR8W~  -                                                                                                                     D        I        2        3                LIRVA  |  REP uRLIZO                           *aRtRIN- -e 
ThRV~~~~~~~~,~~~WS V  0                                                                                         ___________________~~~~~~ITS    NDSRVCE                             AMA       MNCIALBQNDR
d   n d   ,b. on the Jel ot of che   /    \r  J > JH  t                    \  \                       \                          n                   W                      R        2       3                    l    O F  RO        SBAU       U D             ATRj PA
Zf  "PT           _
-       lyny  RhrN rOnvendorse.ment          sRP,/          \<         |                      \+                     )                         /                   J                        KI3OMEIERR5                               VGYPT          ' \,g  ARAR.A IJA[ R
a0                                                                                     lWepc/uoda   Z\    )J2T7  SUDAN  5I P  A N



