LOAN NUMBER 1893 JO
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF AMMAN
and
HOUSING BANK
and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1893 JO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEME-I-, dated      - k                 S    , 1980, among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON TRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank), MUNICIPALITY OF AMMAN (hereinafter called the
Municipality), HOUSING BANK (hereinafter called HB) and INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called IDB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Municipality, HB and IDB agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between, on the one hand, the Borrower and, on the other hand, HB
and IDB, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to HB and IDB on the terms and
conditions therein set forth and HB will, in turn, make available
to the Municipality such amount of the proceeds of the Loan as
shall be allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (5) and
(6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement; on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS the Municipality, HB and IDB, in consideration of
the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) the Municipality shall carry out the
Project, except Part D thereof, with due diligence and efficiency,
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engi-
neering and urban development practices and with construction
standards acceptable to the Bank and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose. To that end, the Municipality shall
continue to maintain UDD at all times in operation, which shall:
(i) consist of a technical services section, a com-
munity development section, a financial control and
administration section and an estate management
section;
(ii) operate under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank;
(iii) employ a director responsible for all its activi-
ties, an engineer, an architect/planner, a commu-
nity development officer and an accountant,
all to have qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to the Bank; and
(iv) employ, as and when necessary to assist the senior
personnel referred to in subparagraph (iii) above
and, in any event, not later than December 31, 1981
(or such other date as the Bank may agree), quali-
fied and experienced technical and clerical person-
nel in sufficient numbers.
(b) (i)   HB shall carry out Part D (1) of the Project and
IDB shall carry out Part D (2) of the Project, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, banking and
urban develiment practices, and to that end, shall
apply to tne Project beneficiaries pricing and
cost recovery principles, eligibility criteria
and guidelines for financial assistance accept-
able to the Bank including those set out in Sche-
dule 2 hereto, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement among the Bank, HB
and IDB.


﻿-3-
(ii) HB shall, by June 30, 1982 (or such other date as
the Bank may agree), exchange views with the Bank
on the establishment by HB of a revolving fund for
financing future urban development projects.
(iii) HB shall, as and when needed for the timely comple-
tion of the Project, make available to the Munici-
pality, out of its own resources (within a limit
equivalent to JD7,300,000) and the proceeds of
the Loan relent or made available to it by the
Borrower, all funds required for the financing
of the Project, (except for Part D thereof) on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Municipality shall carry out Part C (c) of the
Project in cooperation with the Vocational Training Corporation of
the Borrower.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Municipality in carrying
out Part E of the Project, the Municipality shall continue to
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Municipality undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by HB against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Municipality to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Munici-
pality shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available to it by HB to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Municipality shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement


﻿4-
schedules for the Project (except for Part D thereof) and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Municipality shall: (i) maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Pro-
ject, except for Part D thereof, (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project, except for Part D
thereof, and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan made available to it and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, except for Part D thereof, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds, such information shall include quarterly
reports on the progress of the Project during the calendar quarter
concerned and annual reports on the financial flows pertaining to
such Parts of the Project during the calendar year concerned, such
reports to be submitted to the Bank within six weeks and six
months after the close of the time period concerned, respectively.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose among the Munici-
pality, HB and IDB and the Bank, the Municipality, HB and IDB
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a joint report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Municipality, HB and IDB and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement, the HB and IDB Subsidiary
Loan Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(d) The Municipality shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of the Municipality and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. HB and IDB shall each duly perform all its
obligations under the HB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the IDB


﻿-5-
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as the case may be. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, neither HB nor IDB shall take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the HB Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or the IDB Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as the case may be, or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Municipality, HB and IDB shall each, at
the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the HB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
the IDB Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as the case may be, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Municipality, HB and IDB shall promptly inform
the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Municipality, HB
and IDB of its respective obligations under this Agreement and
under the HB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the IDB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, as the case may be.
Section 2.08. The Municipality shall take all such actions
as shall be necessary to acquire all such rights in respect of
land as shall be required for the carrying out of works under
Parts A, B and C of the Project; such actions shall be taken: (a)
in respect to -the site of Quweismeh by January 31, 1981; (b) in
respect to the site of East Wahdat by February 28, 1981; (c) in
respect to the site of Marka by April 30, 1981; (d) in respect to
the site of Wadi Umm er Rimam by May 31, 1981; (e) in respect to
the site of Wadi Haddadah/Nuzha by June 30, 1981; and (f) in
respect to the site of Jofeh by July 31, 1981. The Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such rights in respect of land are
available for the purposes of such works.
Section 2.09. (a) HB shall second to UDD on a full-time
basis until the completion of the Project one qualified and
experienced accountant.
(b) HB shall, by June 30, 1981 (or such other date as the
Bank may agree), second to UDD on a full-time basis until the
completion of the Project one qualified and experienced quantity
surveyor.
Section 2.10. On or before December 31, 1981 (or such other
date as the Bank may agree), HB shall prepare and submit to the


﻿-6-
Bank, for its approval, model forms of the sale contracts to be
entered into between the beneficiaries of the Project and HB
and the arrangements required for the administration of such
contracts.   Thereafter, HB shall not modify the forms of such
contracts or arrangements without the Bank's prior consent.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations
of HB and IDB and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. HB and IDB shall each, at all times, manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, banking and financial practices and
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by qualified and experienced personnel in sufficient
numbers.
Section 3.02. The Municipality shall: (i) operate, or cause
to be operated by its agencies, the facilities (other than
education, health and community facilities), infrastructure and
equipment (other than those located at the site of North Ruseifa)
included in the Project in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive policies and public utility practices and with due regard to
economy; (ii) make, or cause to be made by its agencies, arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank to provide at all times such
facilities with experienced and qualified personnel, in such
numbers as shall be necessary for their efficient operation, and
the funds necessary for the efficient operation, maintenance and
repair of said facilities and for providing an adequate renumera-
tion to said personnel; and (iii) make, or cause to be made by its
agencies, from time to time, all necessary renewals and repairs of
the facilities (other than education, health and community facili-
ties), infrastructure (including roads) and equipment (other than
those located at the site of North Ruseifa) and included in the
Project, all in accordance with appropriate engineering, construc-
tion and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. The Municipality shall make the necessary
arrangements in order to ensure that no connection fees (other
than those provided for under Parts A (a), B (a) and C (a) of the
Project, in addition to the meter installation fees) shall be
charged for the provision of water and sewerage services for the
lots developed under Parts A, B and C (a) of the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Each of HB (in connection to the Project
except Part D (2) thereof), and IDB (in connection to Part D (2)
of the Project) shall maintain separate Project accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures
under the Project.
(b) (i) Without any limitation on the generality of the
preceding paragraph (a), the Municipality shall
maintain records through UDD for all contracts and
other documents not submitted to HB for purposes of
withdrawal from the Loan Account but pertinent
to the Municipality's expenditures under the
Project, and shall make such contracts and docu-
ments available for review by the Bank's accredited
representatives; and
(ii) HB shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, re-
ceipts and other documents) pertaining to the
Project, except Part D thereof, and evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to review
such records.
Section 4.02. HB and IDB shall each: (i) have its Project
accounts and, only with respect to HB, its records supporting
certificates of expenditure referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
hereof for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested including, with respect to HB only, a separ-
ate opinion by said auditors in respect of such certificates of
expenditure showing whether such certificates are consistent with
the disbursements actually made by HB; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the Municipality, HB and IDB thereunder shall termi-
nate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so
notify the Municipality, HB and IDB thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For the Municipality:
Municipality of Amman
P.O. Box 132
Amman
Jordan
Cable address:
AMMAN MUNICIPALITY
AMMAN
For HB:
Housing Bank
P.O. Box 7693
Amman
Jordan
Cable address:                      Telex:
ISKAN                             21693 JO
AMMAN
For IDB:
Industrial Development Bank
P.O. Box 1982
Amman,
Jordan
Cable address:
BANK SINAI
AMMAN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Municipality, HB or IDB or by HB
or IDB on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be
taken or executed by the Mayor of Amman, the Chairman of HB and
the Chairman of IDB, respectively, or such other person or persons
as the Municipality, HB or IDB, as the case may be, shall desig-
nate in writing, and the Municipality, HB or IDB shall furnish to


﻿- 10 -
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Miile East and North Africa
MUNICIPALITY OF AMMAN
Authorized Representative
HOUSING BANK
By    f
Authorized Representative
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
By/-5-
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works for
Part A of the Project and those for the shops and workshops
referred to in Part C (a) of the Project and located at the sites
of North Ruseifa, Marka and Quweismeh shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Municipality shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Municipality shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project and
those for the shops and workshops referred to in Part C (a) of the
Project and located at the sites of North Ruseifa, Marka and
Quweismeh shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the


﻿- 12 -
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shaiLl not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Jordan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Jordan if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Municipality and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Jordan equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result
of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 13 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Goods and works for Part B of the Project and those for
the shops and workshops referred to in Part C (a) of the Project
and located at the sites of Jofeh, Wadi Haddadah/Nuzha, East
Wahdat and Wadi Umm er Rimam shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Contractors and suppliers will be allowed to bid for
individual contracts or for a group of similar contracts at their
option.
(b) Items for the water supply, electricity and refuse
collection facilities included in Parts A and B of the Project may
be purchased from the original supplier, so that they be compat-
ible with the existing equipment installed in such facilities;
provided, however, that the number of new items so acquired is
less than the existing number of such items.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Municipality shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification shall be furnished by the Municipality to the
Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Municipality's decision, and the Municipality shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿-14-
With respect to all contracts for works and goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Municipality shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Munici-
pality shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Municipality and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence,, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Municipality shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Municipality and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 15 -
4.  'Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 10% of the original price, the Municipality shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Municipality and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Pricing and Cost Recovery Principles;
Eligibility Criteria; Guidelines for
Financial Assistance
A.   Pricing
In computing the price of plots the following cost elements
will be taken into account:
(a) land acquisition (including the national price of
government land);
(b) cadastral survey;
(c) preparation of the site concerned;
(d) on-site   infrastructure   (including   connections to
individual plots);
(e) on-plot construction;
(f) management costs incurred for the development or up-
grading of the site concerned; and
(g) design and supervision fees for the 'development or
upgrading of the site concerned.
B,   Cost Recovery
(a) Plots included in Parts A and 3 of the Project:
(i) the cost of plots, whose surface is 150 m2 or
above, shall be recovered in full through a sale at
market prices, the surplus over and above the full
recovery of such cost to be used wholly or partly
to reduce the sale price of plots referred to in
subparagraph (ii); and
(ii) the cost of plots, whose surface is below 150
m2, shall be recovered in full (after crediting
against such cost any allocated surplus arising
from the sale of the plots referred to in sub-
paragraph (i) above and paragraph (b) below) as
follows:


﻿- 17 -
-   an instant cash down-payment of 5% of such
cost; and
-   the rest of the cost shall be recovered over
not more than 20 years at an interest rate of
not less than 8.5% per annum.
(b) Plots included in Part C (a) of the Project.
The Municipality may maintain ownership of such
plots and make them available for rent to eligible
beneficiaries in the Project area. The cost of such
plots shall be recovered in full through a sale at
market prices, either to the Municipality, if it so
desires, or to eligible beneficiaries; the surplus over
and above the full recovery of such cost to be used
wholly or partly to reduce the sale price of plots
referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) above and the sale
price to be paid as follows:
-    an instant cash down-payment of not less than
20% of such cost; and
-    the rest of. the cost shall be recovered over
not more than ten years at an interest rate of
not less than 10% per annum if the sale is
made to beneficiaries and 8.5% if the Munici-
pality retains ownership.
C.   Eligibility Criteria
(a) Part A of the Project
For the selection of beneficiaries for the following
types of plots the following monthly income ranges in
December 1979 prices shall apply:
Income Range
Type of Plot                                 in JDs
100 m2 (foot path access
and sanitary core)                      52/68
100 m2 (foot path access,
sanitary core, one room
and front wall)                         69/76


﻿- 18 -
100 m2 (road access, sanitary
core, two rooms and
front wall)                             77/100
(b) Part B of the Project
(i) In the case of existing plots the beneficiaries
will be the present occupants of such plots.
(ii) For the selection of beneficiaries for the follow-
ing types of new plots, the following monthly
income ranges in December 1979 prices shall
apply:
Income Range
Type of Plot                                 in JDs
100 m2 (foot path access
and sanitary core)                      58/68
100 m2 (foot path access,
sanitary core, one
room and front wall)                    77/100
100 m2 (foot path access,
sanitary core, two
rooms and front wall)                   78/100
D.   Guidelines for Financial Assistance
(a) Building material loans made by HB.
Except as may be otherwise agreed between the Bank
and HB, such loans shall be made on the following condi-
tions:
-    interest rate: not less than 8.5% per annum;
-    term: not more than 20 years; and
-    maximum amount: JD175 (except in the case of
new plots where the maximum shall be JD270 for
a 100 m2 plot with one room and sanitary
core and JD365 for plots with sanitary core
only); no loans shall be made for other plots.


﻿- 19 -
(b) Small business development loans made by IDB.
Such loans shall be made on the following condi-
tions:
-    interest rate: not less than 8% per annum;
-    term: not more than 5 years (including six to nine
months of grace); and
-    maximum amount: JD4,000;
-    management fee: JD15 per loan per annum; and
-    the beneficiary of the loan shall employ not more
than 5 persons or less and utilize simple machinery
or handtools.
(c) Small business construction loans made by HB.
Such loans shall be made as the following condi-
tions:
-    interest rate: not less than 10% per annum for
Project beneficiaries and 8.5% per annum for
the Municipality.
-    term: not more than 10 years.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ament.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  r*      day of       , 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


