The World Bank
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                                                   June 30, 2011

            Minister Veaceslav Negruta
            Ministry of Finance
            Chisinau, Moldova


             Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant for Technical Assistance Support to Public Administration Reform
                                           of Moldova Project (TF056601)

            Amendment to the Grant Agreement
            Your Excellency:

                    We refer to the Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the “Grant
            Agreement?) between Moldova and the International Development Association (the
            “Association?), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by Swedish International
            Development Cooperation, Department of International Development of the Government
            of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the Government of the
            Netherlands (the “Donors?), dated June 29, 2006, as amended, for the above-referenced
            Project.
                   We also refer to the letter from Mr. Vladimir Filat, Prime Minister, dated August
            26, 2010 and the e-mail correspondence between the State Chancellery and the
            Association dated April 12-14, 2011, requesting certain amendments to the Grant
            Agreement.
                    Pursuant to the increase of the Grant amount with the additional contribution not
            exceeding the equivalent of three million seventy five hundred thousand United States
            dollars (US$3,750,000) provided by Swedish International Development Cooperation, we
            concur with your request and hereby amend the Grant Agreement as follows:
                    1. The first paragraph of the letter of the Grant Agreement is amended to reflect
                    the increased Grant amount not exceeding the equivalent of nine million nine
                    hundred thousand United States dollars (US$9,900,000).

                    2. In Section 1 of the Annex of the letter of the Grant Agreement, two new sub-
                    paragraphs (v) and (vi) shall be added under Part A (b) to read as follows
                    (modifications are shown in italics):

            “ (b) Government’s Policy-Making Capacity: Provision of technical assistance and
            training to: (i) review the policy planning system and develop a methodology for
            improved elaboration and coordination of policy proposals; (ii) conduct on-the-job-
            training in preparation, and pre-approval procedures for policy documents; (iii) review
            and amend Government normative acts and pass additional regulations on policy
            coordination system; (iv) further develop mechanisms linking policy and budget
            planning; (v) develop and implement new methodology for improved elaboration,
                                            -2-


coordination, monitoring and reporting on policy proposals and strategic planning
documents in the State Chancellery and across all the line ministries, during two
consecutive budget execution periods; and (vi) build capacity of the Recipient’s State
Chancellery in coordinating the activities of the Recipient’s National Participation
Council as a key mechanism for stakeholder consultations on development of strategic
planning documents of national importance.?

       3. The table set forth in Section 4.2 of the Annex of the letter of the Grant
          Agreement is amended in order to reflect the additional contribution.


       Accordingly, the revised table is indicated in the attached Annex 1 to this letter.


       4. In Attachment I, Sections I.A and I.B. are amended to read as follows
          (modifications are shown in italics):

“A.    All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods,
Works and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers? dated January 2011 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the
provisions of this Attachment.?

“B.    All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers? dated January 2011 (the Consultants
Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Attachment.?

       5. In Attachment I, Section III.5 shall be amended to read as follows
          (modifications are shown in italics):

“5. Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the
requirements of paragraph 3.9 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source selection,
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.?

       Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of Moldova, by
signing, dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. The amendment will
become effective upon receipt of a countersigned copy of this letter.


                                        Sincerely,


                                   /s/ Martin Raiser
                                        Director
                               Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova
                                           -3-


                             Europe and Central Asia Region




AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

By: /s/ Veaceslav Negruta

Name: Veaceslav Negruta

Title: Minister of Finance

Date: June 28, 2011
                                     -4-




                                                                 ANNEX 1


            Category         Amount of the Grant   % of Expenditures to
                                   Allocated           be Financed
                               (in U.S. dollars)

(1) Consultants’ services,       7,063,000                100 %
    including audit

(2) Goods                         1,350,000               100 %

(3) Training                      1,078,000               100%

(4) Incremental Operating           309,000               100%
     Costs
(5) Unallocated                    100,000                100%

     TOTAL AMOUNT                 9,900,000
