OFFICIAL            -TF o    bo
The World Bank                        I   OCUMEW        S
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                   o
December 20, 2012
1I.E. Veaceslav Negruta
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Chisinau, Moldova
Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant for Technical Assistance Support to Public
Administrai ion Reform of Moldova Project (TF056601)
Amendment to the Grant Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Mult -Dor,or Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the "Grant Agreement")
between the Republic of M:ldova (the "Recipient") and the International Development
Association (the "Associatior"), acting as administrator of grant funds ("Contributions")
provided by Sweden and the Government of the Netherlands (the "Donors"), dated June 29, 2006,
as amended, for the above-referenced Project.
Pursuant to the Recipicnt's letter dated September 14, 2012 requesting: (a) an extension
of the Project's Closing Date; znd (b) additional funds from the existing Contributions to finance
ihe implementation of additional activities under the Project, we are pleased to inform you that
The Association hereby agrees to establish December 31, 2013 as the later date for purposes of
Section 4.3 (c) of the Grant Agieement and amend the terms of said Grant Agreement as follows:
I.     The first paragraph of the 3rant Agreement is amended to reflect the increased Grant
amount not exceeding the equivalent of eleven million four hundred fifty thousand United States
dollars (US$11,450,000).
2.     Paragraph 1.1 of the A nnex to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to include a new
;ubparagraph (iv) under Part A (a), and replaced in its entirety to read as follows:
' (a)Institutional Reorganizaticn: Provision of technical assistance to: (i) conduct a government-
wvide functional review of the central public administration entities; (ii) further develop the legal
framework on the organization of public administration; (iii) build capacity of the CPAR unit of
the Recipient's State Chancellery; and (iv) develop a program for improving the quality,
transparency and efficiency of administrative public services delivered at the central and sub-
national tiers of the Governmeit.
3.     Paragraph 2.1 of the Annex to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in
i's entirety to read as follows:
-'2.1. The Recipient shall: (a) cary out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency, and in
accordance with the provisio is o- the Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants, dated October 15,


﻿-2-
(006 and revised January 2011; (t) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other
:esources required for that purpo;e; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of
he proceeds of the Grant as the iAssociation shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange
iews with the Association's repieseniatives on the progress and results of the Activities; (e) take all
-ecessary measures required to enable the Association to visit the territory of the Recipient for
:urposes related to the Grant; ar d (f) cause all consulting services, goods, training and incremental
:perating costs, financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of
i- Grant. Without limitation on he fcregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Association shall so request,
:repare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form
md substance satisfa-tory to the kssociation, on the results and impact of the Activities.
4.     Paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in
s entirety to read as follows:
4.2.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
ilie Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of
xpenditures for itens to be fine nced in each Category:
Category                Amount of the Grant         % of Expenditures to
Allocated                   be Financed
(in U.S. dollars)
(I) Consultants' services,            8,570,000                      100%
including audit
(2) Goods                              1,500,000                     100 %
(3) Training                          1,200,000                      100%
(4) Incremental Operating               180,000                      100%
Costs
(5) Unallocated                               0
TOTAL AMOUNT                     11.450,000
For purposes of this paragraph, :he terms:
(a)    "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred by the Recipient on
z,ccount of management of Grant im)lementation including office supplies, communication, local
transportation, training, and suci other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association.
(b)    "Training" mee ns expenditures incurred by the Recipient in connection with the
carrying out of training aclivities under the Activities, including reasonable costs of
transportation, accommodation, per diem and interpretation services and cost of study tours,
workshops , and any other train ng related costs as may be agreed upon by the Association."


﻿-3-
Please confirm the Recipient's agreement with the foregoing by having an authorized
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Amendment Letter, and returning
it to the Association. The amendment shall become effective upon receipt by the Association of
ii original countersiDned copy cfthi,, Amendment Letter.
Please note that the final restructuring paper dated December 13, 2012, will be disclosed
on the Association's external website.
Sincerely,
Paolo Belli
Acting Director
Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova
Buro-e and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
Name: ____e__     x?&A_
Fitle: i tw,_e_ F'qqi ,
[)ate: kec-e('01!,42, ar  ___1


