Document of
The World Bank
fOR OFFI(IAL. l SE ONLY
Report No. 12943-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
JUNE 13, 1994
lLer~~ rt !.c i V A :- .
*2;  4 k?
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bsnk authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of Currency = Ruble
Rubles per US Dollar
Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currencv Exchange/Foreign Exchange Auction Market (VEB) rate
Period Average End of Period
1990                  19             23
1991                  62           1 69
1992
I Quarter       177           160
11 Quarter       134           144
III Quarter       178           254
IV Quarter       396            415
1993
I Quarter       580           684
II Quarter       801           934
III Quarter     1000          1000
IV Quarter      1200          1200
1994
I Quarter      1591          1753
II Quarter      1843          1928 (as of June 6,1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bbl     = US barrel (42 US gallons)            mmbbl         = million barrels
bcm     = billion cubic meters                 MMSCFD        = million standard cubic feet per day
bpd     = barrels per day                     ton            = metric ton (1,000 kilogram)
mbbl   = thousand barrels                      tpd           = tons per day
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
API    American Petroleum Institute
CIS    Commonwealth of Independent States
CPI    Consumer Price Index
EBRD  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA    Enviromnental Impact Assessment
FSU    Former Soviet Union
GAAP  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GAAS  Generally Accepted Auditing Standards
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
LIB    Limited Internati nal Bidding
MNG   Megionneftegas Joint Stock Company (Producer Association)
NGDU  Oil and Gas Production Unit within Producer Associations
NGL   Natural Gas Liquids
NGO   Nongovernmental organization
OVOS  Russian acronym for Industrial Activity Environmental Impact Assessment
PA     Producer Association
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
SCL    Single Currency Loan (IBRD)
TN     Tomskneft Joint Stock Company (Producer Association)
YNG   Yuganskneftegas Joint Stock Company (Producer Association)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND OIl REHABILITATION PROJECT
fable of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ..............   ..  ..............  v
I. THE MACROECONOMIC SETTING.                                                                  I
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR ..............                           .........          .......  I
A. Energy Consumption .1
B. Energy Resources, Production and Exports             . .2
C. Energy and the Environment ....    ..... 3
D. Energy Prices, Taxes and Subsidies ....    ...... 3
E. Organization of the Energy Sector and Strdctural Reform.                             3
F. Foreign Direct Investment .        .................................  5
G. Bank's Role in the Energy Sector .............................5 
III. THE OIL SUBSECTOR                                      ..                                 6
A. Oil Consumption, Refming and Distribution                      ..                   6
B. Oil Resources, Production, and Exports                       ..                      7
C. Oil and the Environment .................                                           9
D. Crude Oil and Petroleum Product Pricing            ..                               9
E. Oil Taxation  l..
F. Legal Framework for Oil Operations ..........................  13
G. Organization of the Oil Sector            ..14
H. Foreign Direct Investment in the Oil Sector    ..16
I. Russian Oil Sector Reform Program   ..........................   18
IV. THE BANK'S PETROLEUM  LENDING EXPERIENCE   ................  19
A. Petroleum Lending Experience Outside Russia  ...................   19
B. First Oil Rehabilitation Project ..............................   19
C. The Bank's Future Lending Strategy in the Russian Oil Sector ...           ......  20
This report is based on the findings of Preappraisal (Oct/Dec 1993) and Appraisal (March 1994) Missions led by Task
Manager Charles McPherson and Deputy Task Manager Douglas McKay. The report was prepared by Charles
McPherson and Douglas McKay (EC3IV), with contributions from Suzanne Barnes (EC31V); Peter Pease (OPRPR);
Ahmed Jehani (LEGEC); Viren Sirohi and Stan Peabody (EMTEN); Christopher Brierley, Vince Connelly and
Miguel Montes (Consultants). Marc Blanc (EC3DR) provided operational guidance. The Division Chief and
Department Director are Jonathan C. Brown and Russell J. Cheetham.
i doument has a nsticted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfman f heir
ocia duie  Its contentm  not otberMw be dislosed without World Ban auhoizaon                |



Page No.
V. BORROWERS AND BENEFICLARIES                                  ............................   21
A. Organization and Management  ...........                ..         ................   21
B. Legal Status .......         ..............              .....................   22
C. Mineral and Land Rights  .............               ..        ..................   22
D. Relationship with Subunits  .............             ..        .................   23
E. Accounting Systems ...... ............                       ...................   23
F. External and Internal Audits ..... ............                                          25
G. Financial Situation and Prospects ............................   26
VI. THE PROJECT   ....               ...............             .......................   28
A. Project Objectives ......         ............              ....................   28
B. Project Description           .................             ....................   28
C. Project Cost Estimates ......          ...........             ..................   31
D. Financing Plan .....................                                                     34
E. Inurance  .................. ....................   35
F. Implementation Arrangements ............                   ..................   35
G. Reporting Arrangements  .................................  37
H. Procurement  ......................................   37
1. Disbursement  ......................................                                     40
J. Technical Assistance .....................................   41
K. Environment  .....................................   41
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTICATION AND RISKS                                        ..                       44
A. Project Justification and Benefits ............................   44
B. Economic Sensitivity Analyses and Project Risks  ..................   46
VIII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION   ............... ..................   46
A. Projected Profitability and Risks  ............................   46
B. Financial Covenants .....................................  48
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...............   48



ANNXES
Annex 2-1  Russia: Primary Energy Supply
Annex 3-1  Organization of the Russian Upsream Oil Sector
Annex 3-2  Russian Federation Oil Sector Reform
Annex 5-1  Legal Characteristics of the Participating Producer Associations
Annex 5-2  Organizational Structures of the Producer Associations
Annex 5-3  Financial Status of the Producer Associations
Annex 6-1  Technical Overview of the Producer Associations
Annex 6-2  Technical Recommendations
Annex 6-3  Field Opfimization Study: Recommended Scope of Work
Annex 6-4  Implementation Schedule and Project Expenditures
Annex 6-5  Lending Arrangements, Tegal Documents and Flow of Funds
Annex 6-6  Project Implementation Unit: Organization Chart
Annex 6-7 Draft Terms of Reference for the PIU Specialists
Annex 6-8  Project Supervision Plan
Annex 6-9  Procurement Arrangements
Annex 6-10 Environmental Assessment Summary
Annex 7-1  Economic Analysis
Annex 8-1  Financial Analysis
Annex 9-1  Russian Governmenit Letter of Policy Intent
Annex 9-2 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 24146R1 Russia: Main Petroleum Basins and Crude Oil Trunk Lines
IBRD 24145R1 Main Petroleum Producer Associations of Western Siberia



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower    Thz Russian Federation
Guarantor   The Russian Federation
Beneficiaries Three Oil Producer Associations in Western Siberia:
- Megionneftegas OTJSC
- Tomskneft OTJSC
- Yuganskneftegas OTJSC
Note: OTJSC = Open Type Joint Stock Company.
Amount       US$500 million equivalent
Terms        Currency Pool Loan for 17 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's stndard
variable interest rate.
Onlending   The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to the Beneficiaries. Maximum
maturity periods under the on-lending arrangements are 10 years including 2 years
grace. Funds on-lent would carry an interest rate equal to the Bank's lending rate
plus a premium of 75 basis points.
Project      The proposed Project's principal objectives are to: (i) slow the rate of oil
Objectives   production decline in Western Siberia and thus strengthen the Russian Federation's
ability to earn foreign exchange in the near term; (ii) transfer international
technical, environmental and managerial practice to the operation of oil fields in
Western Siberia; (iii) promote a more efficient and environmentally sustainable
use of Russia's petroleum resources; and (iv) through policy consultations,
continue past support to sector reforms conducive to attiacting the equity and loan
finance and international participation necessary to reverse the oil production
decline.
Project      The most effective investment in the petroleum sector, in terms of early economic
Description   benefits, is the provision of essential inputs to support existing oil production
operations. Russian oil production is concentrated largely in the region of
Western Siberia and the proposed Project focuses on three Producer Associations
in this region. The Project would contain the following broad categories of
components: (i) rehabilitation of idle wells and facilities where warranted; (ii)
systematic reconstrucion of existing field infrastructure for a limited number of
fields; (iii) in-fill drilling in existing fields; (iv) technical assistance for project
implementation and for preparation of field optimization plans and (v) equipment
and services to help mitigate the effects of oil operations on the environment.



During Negotiations for the First Oil Rehabilitation Loan, the Bank established a
procedure of regular consultation with the Government on all key oil sector policy
topics. This dialogue will continue through implementation of the proposed
Project.
Rationale    Bank involvement in this Project is justified on the following grounds: (i) an
expected early positive impact on oil production, the fiscal deficit and foreign
exchange earnings; (ii) a favorable demonstration effect; and (iii) support to
petroleum policy reforms conducive to private sector investment which should
ultimately become the primary source of capital for petroleum operations.
Environment Past oil production practice in Russia has not conformed to international standards
and has often resulted in alarming damage to the environment. As required under
OD 4.01, this Project has been assigned Category A, which calls for the
preparation of a comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). A craft
EIA was circulated to the Executive Directors on March 17, 1994. Based on this
EIA, the Government has determined that, on environmental grounds, there are no
objections to implementation of the Project. In fact, a key component of the
Project involves replacement of oil gathering pipelines to reduce the occurrence of
oil leakages. The Project also provides training in environmental management,
equipment and training for pilot clean-up programs, support for the development
of adequate emergency oil spill response capabilities in the Associations and
assistance in planning programs to safeguard the interests of national minorities in
or near Project areas.
Economic    At peak production the Project would provide 8.3 million tons per year (160,000
Benefits     bpd) of incremental oil, representing a 2.5 percent increase in national output that
would generate additional gross revenues of approximately US$900 million per
year. Economic rates of return for each component of the Project would exceed
50 percent and the benefit-cost ratio for the aggregate Project is estimated at over
2.0 at a real discount rate of 15 percent.
Economic    While it is expected that all project components would generate strong economic
Risks        returns, uncertainty in expected well production due to the state of the reservoirs,
potential downhole problems, or unreliable well records presents some risk for
well workovers and rehabilitation. This risk is acceptable given the large number
of idle wells potentially to be rehabilitated (over 3,000 in the three Associations)
and can be managed through careful well screening and review during Project
implementation. The risk of improper drilling of horizontal wells will be managed
through contracting these services to specialized firms and flexibility in the
program during implementation.
Lower international oil prices would reduce project returns, but the overall Project
is still economic at international oil prices (Brent North Sea) as low as US$70 per
ton (US$10 per barrel). Since a high proportion of both Project costs and
revenues are in foreign exchange, the Project is relatively well insulated from
adverse macro-economic developments such as high inflation. Project costs do not



pose a significant risk. The uncertainty surrounding local cost components due to
changing economic conditions in Russia is minimized due to the small share of
local costs in the overall Project cost. Delays in implementation during the
Project life should not significantly affect overall Project returns, due to the fact
that the Project is made up of a series of self-contained and rapidly completed
components.
Financial    Under the current investment regime and reasonable oil price assumptions, the
Benefits     Project would generate acceptable financial returns to the Producer Associations
and, over the Project life, would provide aggregate net present values of
approximately US$300 million in after-tax cash flow to the Associations and
roughly US$1,200 million in taxes and payments to the Russian Government.
Financial    Any withdrawal or diminution of tax and export incentives provided to the
Risks        upstream oil industry would seriously affect Project returns, as would any re-
imposition of price controls.
At recent low international oil prices of US$98 per ton ($13.50 per barrel), the
ove:all Project is financially viable but returns are insufficient for many
components. These prices are regarded as abnormally low and price levels have
since recovered to US$120 per ton (US$16.50 per barrel). In any event, the
Project is structured to absorb adverse price developments through adjustment of
both Project components and timing.
Economic Rate
of Reunm    Greater than 50 percent for all Project components.
Financial Rate
of Return    Greater than 40 percent real after-tax for the aggregate Project.



Estimated Project Cost
(US$ million equivalenw)
Project Component                   Local   Foreign  Total I/    Foreign  Component
as %        as %
of Total    of Total
Well WorkoverslRehabilitation        58       191       249        77%         42%
In-Fill New Wells                     22      179       201        89%         34%
Surface Facility Replacement (km)     7        59        67        89%         12%
Environmental Management              -        15        15       100%          3%
Field Optimization Studies                     19        19       100%          3%
Unallocated Rig Costs and Misc.      -        25         25       100%          4%
Implementation TA                     -        12        12       100%          2%
Sub-Total 2/                          87       500       587        85%         100%
Import Duties                         53       -         53         0%
Interest During Constr. & Fees        -        38        38       100%
Total Financing Required             141       538        678       79%
Notes:
1/ Costs include 6% physical contingencies plus average price contingencies of 2%.
2/ Numbers may not add duc to rounding.
financing Pln
(US$ million equivalent)
Financing Source           Local    Foreign   Total/1        % of Total
IBRD                          -       500       500              74%
Producer Associations       141        38       178              26%
Total /1                    141       538       678             100%
% of Total                 21%       79%      100%
11/ Numb,ers may not add due to rounding.
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank Fiscal Year (ending June 30)
1995     1996        1997
Annual                                248       223         29
Cumulative                            248       471        S00



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. THE MACROECONOMlC SETTING
1.1   The macroeconomic setting for the proposed Project is contained in the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Russia. The most recent discussion of the CAS was on May 19,
1994 in the context of the Financial Institutions Development Project. At that time, the Bank
recommended an Intermediate Case lending program, on the order of US$1-$1.5 billion annually,
not including adjustment lending. The program would be composed of a core set of relatively
straightforward projects, largely in infrastructure and the social sectors, and an additional set of
projects that would go forward only when the Government satisfied key conditions for sectoral
reforms. The proposed Project is included in the latter group of projects, and it is intended to
advance the Bank's continuing policy dialogue in the petroleum sub-sector. As indicated in the
recent CAS, the energy sector is expected to be a major focus of Bank lending over the next several
years, accounting for roughly 40 percent of new conunitments during the FY93-97 period. In
particular, the CAS recognizes that developments in the energy sector, especially the petroleum sub-
sector, are critical for Russia's export prospects over the next several years and therefore the
viability of the external financing program. The proposed Project is fully consistent with the Bank's
policy objectives in the CAS and represents a priority use of Bank resources in assisting the
transformation of the Russian economy.
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR
2.1   The CAS makes clear the importance of macroeconomic reform to the recovery of individual
sectors of the Russian economy. In turn, certain key sectors will have a direct impact on success
at the macroeconomic level. Energy is one such sector, and within energy, the oil subsector is
critical.
2.2   Energy is estimated to account for 15% of Russia's GDP, 11% of industrial production, and
49% of its convertible foreign exchange earnings. Rapid stabilization of the overall economy is
unlikely to occur unless macroeconomic reforms are paralleled by energy sector reform and
recovery.
A. Energy Consumption
2.3   Inefficient energy use is characteristic of the Russian economy. In 1992, Russia's energy use
per unit of GDP was 14 times that of Japan, 8 times that of the UK, and 5 times that of the US.
This problem has worsened in the recent past, with further decreases in economic output and modest
decreases in energy consumption. Russia's inefficient energy use stems from a combination of
factors including an emphasis on energy-intensive industrial users, widespread use of inefficient and



2
outdated equipment, and prices that discourage conservation. The root problem is that energy use
has for years been dictated by central planning rather than by market forces.
2.4   The potential for economic rationalization of energy consumption in Russia is enormous. The
Goverrnent has initiated a program of reforms to address this prospect encompassing: (i) energy
price policies that have increased oil, coal and natural gas prices to about 50% of market levels by
December 1993; (ii) draft legislation on energy conservation; and, (iii) the establishment of a Russian
Energy Conservation Fund (RECF) to encourage energy conservation investments. Some results
have already been observed as a result of the pricing reforms. Energy consumption in Russia has
decreased by 11 % since 1990, with the largest declines in the coal sector (20%) and petroleum
products (19%). Gas consumption has remained relatively constant until the first half of 1993, when
a decline of 4% took place.
2.5    Data on Russian energy consumption since 1985 by type are included in Annex 2-1. In 1993,
natural gas accounted for about 50% of domestic primary consumption, oil about 27% and coal 18%.
The remaining 5% is split amoi-g nuclear, hydroelectric and other fuels. Coal was the main fuel
through the 1960s, replaced by o;' prMw%ts in the 1970s and natural gas by the late 1980s.
B. Energy Resources, Production and Exports
2.6   It is estimated that Russia has 10%l, of the world's oil reserves, 40% of natural gas reserves,
10% of hard coal reserves, and 20-; of the world's brown coal reserves. Its electric power
generating capacity ranks second in the world. Russia is the second largest energy producer in the
world, accounting for about 14% of total commercial energy production. Notwithstanding the fact
that Russia is one of the most energy intensive economies, it has been able to export over 25% of
its total production, making it the world's largest exporter of energy. Energy exports, primarily of
oil and gas, represent almost 50% of Russia's current exports to non-CIS countries and provide a
critical volume of foreign exchange.
2.7   Russia's productive capacity in energy cannot be maintained and its unexploited reserves
cannot be commercialized without massive annual investments. Annual capital requirements for oil
and gas alone, merely to stabilize existing production levels, are probably in the range of US$6 to
$7 billion each. Funds are no longer available to meet these requirements, however, and the future
of the sector and the overall economy is being placed in serious jeopardy. Output of energy is now
falling in all energy subsectors. Crude oil output is down 40% from its 1988 peak, and is declining
at an amnual rate approaching 15%. This must be viewed as catastrophic if sustained for another
year or two. Exports of crude oil are also falling sharply, as a consequence of the drop in
production. Currently oil exports, which are dominated by crude oil, are running at about 45% of
their 1988 peak. Natural gas production, which had steadily increased over the past several years,
has registered its first decline in 1992, falling 3% compared to 1991. There has been a further 4%
drop in 1993. Gas exports have also declined by 7% in 1992 and 9% in 1993. Production of coal
was declining at an approximate rate of 10% by late summer of 1993 indicating a deepening crisis
in this subsector as well. Finally, Russia has become increasingly short of electricity generating
capacity since the late 1980s, reflected in severe shortages of power in certain regions. Electric
power output in 1993 declined roughly 5% from 1992 levels.



3
2.8   The erosion of Russia's productive capacity in energy began several years ago. The massive
funding required to correct this situation will depend crucially on rapid implementation of policy
reforms. Data on Russia's energy production and exports 1985-1993 are contained in Annex 2-1.
C. Energy and the Environment
2.9   Russia's environmental problems are serious and widespread. There are many reasons for
the current situation including: past policies that set performance targets in quantitative terms and
treated the environment as a free good; lack of environmental legislation, poor implementation
standards and enforcement at both the govermnental and enterprise levels; and pricing policies that
undervalued natural resources. Russia's energy inefficiency in both production and end-use
represents not only an alarming waste of economic resources, but also a prime cause of high
atmospheric pollution and of natural resource degradation. Price reform, coupled with investment
in more efficient technologies, would lead to major improvements. Future energy policies in the
public sector are expected to incorporate principles of demand management and incentive-based
regulations, which are becoming standard in the OECD countries. There is also an important need
to address the requirements of indigenous people whose traditional ways of life have been negatively
impacted by energy resource development.
ID. Energy Prices, Taxes and Subsidies
2.10  Relative energy prices have been gradually corrected over the past two years. Prior to 1992,
energy prices were less than 10% of estimated market levels. By year-end 1993, they had reached
about 50% of estimated market levels. The only exception to this is the price of energy products
to households, which have risen at a more gradual rate, reflecting the limited ability to pay as a
result of the slow adjustment in labor prices and the failure to establish an effective safety net.
2.11  On the production side, until recently, energy prices and taxes left little or no room for
suppliers to recover capital costs or even, in some cases, operating costs, a high percetage of
which, certainly for oil and gas, are for imported materials and equipment. This resulted in financial
losses at producing enterprises, sharply curtailed investment and necessitated subsidies to producers
through either direct budget transfers, as is the case for coal, or subsidized credit, as has recently
been extended to the oil and gas subsectors. Energy taxes have caused problems not only because
they have been high, but also because they have been based on revenues rather than profit, i.e. they
have been insensitive to the distressed condition of energy producers.
2.12  While there has bee  )rogress over the past 12 to 18 months, there remains a pressing need
to continue to rationalize energy prices and reform taxes, and doing so can be expected to have far-
reaching macroeconomic and structural implications.
E. Organization of the Energy Sector and Structural Reform
2.13 Structural reform of Russia's energy sector is underway. Goals of the reform package
include reduced state intervenion, promotion of compeution and a strong, independent private sector.
Over the past 12 to 24 months, there has been progress under each of these headings, but it has been
uneven and considerable work remains to be done.



4
2.14   Prior to 1990, energy was fully integrated into the (then) Soviet Union's national plan. The
sector was managed by central Moscow ministries and by subsector or branch ministries. This
concentration of authority in the center, together with the fact that central ministries with authority
over energy subsectors rarely coordinated their approaches, stifled commercial and operational
initiatives in the sector. Pressure from the energy enterprises, notably oil enterprises, over the past
three years has led to substantial decentralization of this authority.
2.15   As a result, branch miristries were converted to giant state concerns during 1991, with the
intent that commercial and operational matters for each subsector would be the responsibility of the
concerns, while policy matters would remain with the ministries. The state concerns included:
Rosneftegas for crude oil production; Glavtransneft for crude oil transport; Rosnefteproduct for oil
product transport and distribution; GasProm for non-associated gas production, transmission and
storage; Rosstroigasifikazia for gas distribution; Ugol Rossii for coal; and Rosenergo for electric
power. While distanced from the ministries, these state or national concerns were still formally
answerable to them and wholly owned by the state. Selected activities camne under newly established
committees rather than state concerns, for example, oil refiming under the Refining Committee within
the Ministry of Fuel and Power, and oil exploration under the State Committee on Geology (former
Ministry of Geology).
2.16 Following the creation of the state concerns, a period of further informal decentralization of
control over the sector began. This was favored by certain parts of the reform movement in
Government on the ground of fostering competition. Others regarded it as potentially disruptive,
during a time when stability in energy supplies was vital, and argued for a halt to the decentralization
process, at least for the time being. Except in the oil sector, the Government has by and large
acceded to these latter arguments. Its latest position is defmed in a series of Presidential Decrees
issued in October and November 1992, covering the oil, gas and electricity subsectors.
2.17 The transformation of all energy sector enterprises into joint stock companies commenced
in late 1992 and is now well-advanced. This is beneficial in that it sets the stage for corporatization
of the enterprises along commercial lines and looks to their ultimate privatization. At the same time,
the Decrees provide for a controlling interest in each enterprise to be retained by the state and place
responsibility for administration of the state's shareholdings in the hands of a very few centralized
holding companies which are themselves either wholly owned or effectively controlled by the state.
Except in the oil sector, where three new enterprises were established, the centralized holding
companies were formed out of the pre-existing state concerns. The Government is now drafting
contracts that will set out in detail the relationship between holding companies and the enterprises
whose shares they hold in trust. It is expected that these contracts will preserve for the state,
through the holding companies, significant control over management of the enterprises during a
transition period.
2.18  The risk inherent in current arrangements is that they will not prove transitional, i.e. that te
giant holding companies will be reluctant to devolve control to subsector enterprises and will use the
tansitional period to consolidate rather than transfer their authority. This would be unfortnate, as
dtere is considerable potential in all subsectors for a much greater degree of beneficial competition
based on a large number of independent enterprises. The scale of Russia's energy sector is such that
even a substantial fragmentation would result in enterprises that are hlrge by world standards. While



S
siieable natural monopolies may persist for some tine in a few functional areas, for example, oil,
gas and power transmission, the advantages of competition can be introduced even here through
carefully designed and implemented regulation.
2.19 During the reform process it will be of paramount importance to provide clear definition of
and consistency in the responsibilides of key government ministries and committees, both at the level
of the center and at regional or local levels. While some key conflicts or ambiguities appear to have
been resolved, for example with respect to oil licensing, other areas of uncertainty have yet to be
satisfactorily resolved, for example, the relationship between parent ministries, holding companies,
and operating enterprises.
F. Foreign Direct Investment
2.20 Foreign direct investment in Russia's energy sector can make a critical difference: in funding;
in transferring managerial skldls appropriate to a market economy; in technology transfer; and in
promoting a competitive environment. To date, however, the energy sector has fared little better
than the overall economy in attracting foreign investment. While foreign interest remains high and
a growing number of service contracts and joint ventures have been established over the past 18
months, no significant investment has been made or committed. This has been ascribed by investors
to the absence of an accommodating legal and fiscal framework, to institutional uncertainties and to
Understandable confusions during a period of major transition. One important qualitative factor often
menioned by potential investors in the energy sector are the conflicting signals they receive from
the Russian side: investors are not persuaded that their investments are in the end welcomed by
Russia.
G. Bank's Role In the Energy Sector
2.21 The Bank's energy strategy in Russia has been to support sector reform and sector recovery
through: (i) direct assistance to Russian authorities in the design of their reform program; and (ii)
development of a focused program of energy lending.
2.22 The Bank assigned high priority to support of the oil and gas subsectors due to: (i) the
potential for these subsectors to attract significant inflow of foreign investment capital; (ii) their
potential to generate foreign exchange through export; and (iii) the potential positive impact on the
fiscal deficit through adjustent of domestic prices and rationalization of taxes. An additional
important consideration is the apparent Russian capability to implement effectively projects in the oil
and gas subsectors.
2.23 Technical cooperation between Russia and the Bank on sector reforms began under the
Technical Cooperation Project signed between Russia and the Bank in November 1991. Areas of
particular focus included: (i) prices and exports; (ii) axation; (iii) legislation; (iv) enterprise
restrucuring; (v) oil transport; and (vi) oil project tendering. The regular policy consultations
established under the First Oil Rehabilitation Project have emphasized the same topics and resulted
in the defmition of a policy framework for lending to the petroleum sector (see Chapters HI and IX
below).



6
2.24  Identification of suitable projects for lending has proceeded in parallel with technical
cooperation on policy issues. The US$1 billion First Oil Rehabilitation Project supporting urgently
required oil production rehabilitation in Western Siberia is under implementation and procurement
is advancing favorably. The Second Oil Rehabilitation Project is the subject of this report. Other
potential project areas in the oil subsector have been identified including: (i) joint venture
development of new fields; (ii) refinery rehabilitation and modernization; and (iii) oil transport
debottlenecking and system expansion. These are discussed further in Chapter IV below. In the gas
subsector, Gazprom has been able to attact fnancing for gas transiission and major projects from
other sources. As a result, the Bank has focussed its efforts on gas distribution and energy efficiency
investnents. Finally, a gas injection demonstration project is in preparation which could have a
positive impact on petroleum sector earnings and exports and on the environment through reduced
gas flaring, and increased recovery of oil from the reservoir.
2.25  The Bank has broadened its dialogue with Government in the energy sector to include other
subsectors, for example, power and coal (a small portion of the Bank's first loan to Russia, approved
by the Bank's Board of Directors in August 1992 was allocated to coal). Lending to the energy
sector could range between US$500 million and US$1 billion annually for the next several years.
In all cases, the highest priority will be assigned to designing a lending program that will act as a
catalyst to private sector investment. Once the macroeconomic framework stabilizes and an
acceptable investnent framework has been established, the Bank's relative role in Russia's energy
sector should decline significantly, giving way to private funds.
2.26 The role the Bank has defined for itself in Russia's energy sector is expected to be fully
consistent with the most recent CAS.
ULU  TH8E OIL SUBSECTOR
3.1   Russia's oil subsector is representative of both the opportunities and ills of the energy sector
as a whole. Resources have been misallocated in both consumption and production; consumption
is excessive by international standards; resources are substantial but infrastructure is deteriorating
and production capacity is declining rapidly; the legal and institutional bases for transformation to
a market economy are sfill under development; and, notwithstanding its potential, the subsector so
far has failed to attact significant foreign investrnent. Implementation of a very substantial program
of sector reform is urgently required, not only for a continued trnaround of the sector, but for
overall macroeconomic stabilization. Russia has already embarked on such a program. The highest
priority should be assigned to continued rapid progress in this area.
A. Oil Consumption, Refining and Distribution
3.2   Russia's high energy use compared to other industrialized countries is in good part
attributable to its intensive and inefficient consumption of oil products.  Oil accounts for
approximately 27% of Russia's primary energy consumption. Total consumption of oil (including
losses) was about 225 million tons in 1992, down somewhat from previous years but still high,
especially given the decline in overall economic activity. The first significant drop in consumption



7
was registered last year: 1993 consumption is estimated at 204 million tons. Data on apparent
consumption of oil products from 1985 through 1993 are shown in Annex 2-1.
3.3   Forty percent of Russia's oil is exported. The remainder goes to the domestic refining
sector. Refining capacity to meet Russia's demand for oil products is in desperate need of
rehabilitation and, equally important, of re-configuration. Russia's refineries typically produce a mix
of 50% heavy products and 50% light products. In contrast, the typical European mix is 25% heavy
and 75% light. The failure of the Russian refineries to meet the needs of a modern economy has
contributed to the overall malaise in Russia's industrial sector. Russia's attempt to address the
problem ot emerging slioirages of lighter products by increasing crude oil runs has diverted crude
oil from export markets and resulted in an excess supply of heavier residual oil that the domestic
economy cannot absorb and which must be exported at a significant discount to crude oil prices.
Reforming the refinery subsector will require realignment and upward adjustment of product prices,
and re-orientation of present policies which support across-the-board refinery rehabilitation towards
more selective regional rationalization of capacity. Substantial near term benefits, estimated in
excess of $15 billion, could be achieved with a relatively modest investment, on the order of $1.5
billion. To date, however, domestic funds for modernization of the refining sector have been very
limited and there has been little or no commitnent of foreign capital.
3.4   Russia's product distribution system is also in need of reform to reflect costs and market
conditions. Product distribution is accomplished primarily by rail and river transport. Less than
20% of the Russian pipeline system is designed to handle products.
B. Oil Resources, Production, and Exports
3.5   As noted above, Russia has very substantial oil reserves, estimated at 100 billion tons or
approximately 10%  of the world's proven reserves.  Many large discovered fields remain
undeveloped, some 35 in Western Siberia alone, and vast unexplored areas have the potential for
substantial new additions to reserves.
3.6   As recently as 1987, this reserve base was able to support production at up to 570 million
tons per year, making Russia the world's leading oil producer. Since then, however, production has
dropped by 40% and is now declining at a 10%-15% annual rate, as shown in Figure 3.1 below.
Oil production in the Western Siberian province of Tyumen, Russia's main oil producing area, has
been particularly hard hit. This dramatic decline is the result of a number of factors, including: (i)
rapid natural production decline in the old fields which have accounted for the bulk of Russia's
production to date; (ii) subopfimal technology and reservoir management; (iii) management and
coordination difficulties; (iv) breakdown in traditional equipment supply arrangements (e.g., from
Azerbaijan and the Ukraine); and (v) lack of finance to perform required maintenance and well
workover operations and/or develop new oil fields. Lack of equipment and fmance in good part
accounts for a halving in the rate of drilling since 1988 and a drop in the number of new fields
commissioned for development from 30 to 2 per year.



8
Figure 3.1: Annual Crude Oil Production
600
~8-^ l 8 200-_ 
1987   1988   1989    1 990   1991   1992   1993  1994 est.
Year
Ms West S1berZa Ml Ofthr
3.7    During 1992, as a result of relatively modest cutbacks in domestic oil consumption, oil
production declines fell almost exclusively on export markets. Total oil exports during 1992 were
down one-half from their 1988 peak, from 280 million tons to 140 million tons. This represented
lost foreign exchange earnings of almost US$17 billion per year relative to the 1988 peak. While oil
consumption finally fell in 1993, by over 10%, production losses were greater in absolute terms and
total exports fell to 128 million tons. Hard currency export earnings, however, increased as a
greater portion of crude oil exports were channelled to hard currency markets.
3.8    Without rapid remedial actions these already alarming trends will continue to worsen.
Arresting Russia's oil production declines will require government commitment to major policy
reforms and truly massive investments, up to US$7 billion per annum through the year 2000 just to
stabilize production. Given the state of the Russian economy and the limited availability of
multilateral and bilateral development capital, a substantial part of the investment required over the
next several years will have to come from private international sources. To date, however, the
volume of foreign private equity or loan capital committed to the Russian oil sector remains relatively
small. This is attributable to the as yet inadequate legal and fiscal framework and political
uncernes. As price and tax reforms are implemented, the domestic industry will increasingly be
able to self-finance but, given the escalating problems of arrears in the sector, it will be some time
before programs on the scale required can be funded by the domestic industry. These considerations
have highlighted the near term importance of multilateral and bilateral development finance.
Development finance can make an important direct contribution to oil production rehabilitation during
the period of transition to a more acceptable investment climate and, in the case of the Bank,
significantly influence the pace of oil sector policy reform.



9
C. Oil and the En} ironment
3.9    As already noted, Russia's high energy inefficiency has been a prime cause of its high
atmospheric pollution intensity. Oil consumption is a major contributor to this pollution. Oil
production in Russia has also been conducted with little regard for environmental concerns or the
needs of indigenous peoples.  Past oil production practice has largely ignored international
enviro-mental standards, often resulting in alarming cases of damage to the environment. The
primary sources of historic damage are from unconstrained flaring of associated natural gas and from
oil spills attributable to environmentally unacceptable drilling practices and to leaks in, and other
malfunctioning of, the oil pipeline gathering and transportation systems. At the same tin.,e, oil
production activities have often caused serious disruption to traditional patterns of life for indigenous
people.
3.10  Correcting this situation will require pricing reform, strengthening and enforcement of
environmental legislation, incentive-based regulation and new investments in both the oil consuming
and producing subsectors. While policies are now being adopted to safeguard the interests of
indigenous peoples, much more needs to be done in this area.
I). Crude Oil and Petroleum Product Pricing
3.11   The Russian Government is fully cognizant of the need for, and benefits to be expected of,
energy price rationalization. However, out of concern that the economy would not be able to
withstand the shock of an immediate increase in energy prices to world levels, the Government chose
not to include energy prices in the general liberalization of prices announced in the first quarter of
1992. Instead, the Government issued a series of special decrees on oil prices, in January, May and
September of 1992. While stopping well short of achieving world price parity, these decrees
demonstrated a significant commitment to market liberaliation and increased prices.
3.12  The Govermnent's September 1992 Decree introduced a very important qualitative factor into
the crude oil market, namely free negotiation of prices between producers and consumers in the
domestic vnaket, subject to a limit on price levels of 1.5 times production cost, and an end to
allocated sales. In September 1993, the Government did away with the 1.5 limit.
3.13 Crude oil prices at the refinery gate (excluding VAT) advanced from under 1% of world
levels in December 1991 to 30% of world levels in September 1992, and reached 50% or more by
December 1993 as shown in the Figure 3.2 below. Currently prices are approaching 60% of world
levels. While part of these recent gains can be traced to declines in world oil prices and to a real
appreciation in the value of the ruble, a good part is also attributable to the Government's policies
of price liberalization in the domestic market.



l0
Figure 3.2: Russian Domestic Crude Oil Prices
as a Percent of International Price
100% ~                                                  ~ 
60%r
I       I                                                           l
4 60%-
w8~~0 402- X%                
Jan. 92  Feb. 92  May 92  Sept 92  Jan. 93  June 93  Jan. 94  June 94
3.14  Russia's experience with respect to petroleum product prices has been similar to its crude oil
price experience. Over the past 12 months wholesale prices have increased to over 50% of
international levels, with significant increases occurring in recent months. Retail prices, measured
by motor gasoline prices, are approximately 60% of comparable retail prices in the United States.
3.15 The Russian Government recognizes that future progress on oil prices depends on trade
liberalization and export tariff policies. Action on both fronts is now pending.
3.16 Oil exports have been subject to strict quota limitations and cumbersome licensing
procedures. Quotas have been increasing, however. Crude oil exports to non-FSU countries in 1993
increased by approximately 20 percent over 1992 levels, from 66 million tons to an estimated 80
million tons. Early this year the Government set quotas for 1994 which would further expand non-
FSU exports to approximately 90 million tons. Then, on May 23, 1994, the Government issued a
Presidential Decree which from July 1, 1994 abolishes all quotas and licenses for exports of goods
and services, except those which are exported in compliance with the international commitments of
the Russian Federation. Liberalization of access to the export market will put further upward
pressure on domestic crude oil and product prices.
3.17 This process will be helped by Government plans to reduce the oil export tariff by 50 percent
from 30 Ecu per ton (approximately US$5.00 per barrel) to 15 Ecu per ton ($2.50 per barrel) in the
near future and to rapidly phase out the tariff altogether. The Government has also assigned a high
priority to establishing an acceptable regulatory framework for oil pipeline transportation. This is
relevant to domestic prices because, without such a framework, the oil transport system, which is
a state monopoly, would be in a position to act arbitrarily in granting access to the export market



it
and to extract the equivalent of an export tax from the domestic industry with the effect of restraining
domestic price increases. The principles to be applied in establishing a regulatory framework for
oil transport, including non-discriminatory access and transparent economic tariffs are contained in
draft legislation submitted by the Government to Parliament in April 1994.
E. Oil Taxation
3.18  The Russian oil taxation system presents two serious difficulties to the existing and/or
potential investor: (i) the level of tax "take' is too high; and (ii) the system depends excessively on
revenue-based rather than profit-based taxes.
3.19 The Government is well aware of these difficulties and, especially over the last 12 to 18
months, has worked to address them.
3.20 As shown in Figure 3.3 below, taxes combined with consumer subsidies (price controls),
resulted in a level of take through early 1993 which was in excess of 100% of the operating margin
available to the average producer on flowing production. By June of last year, at the time of
presentations of the Bank's First Cil Rehabilitation Loan to the Board, taxes had been reduced and
prices increased sufficiently to allow the average producer to break even or earn a small profit on
flowing production. By that time too, the Government had introduced a number of tax incentives,
not reflected in Figure 3.3, for investment in new production, i.e. in oil production rehabilitation and
new oilfield development. Average take has contiued to decline over the past year and is now in
the range of 80% to 90% on flowing production and 65% to 75% on new production.
Figure 3.3: Distibution of Operating Margin
A~ 125%.
I
0 25%
-25%   Jan. 92    jan. 93     June 93     Jan. 94    June 94
m consumr subsiltes - Taxes and Fees
125%
7 5%
-- I. I                  _-___
}-25%
Jan. 92    Jan. 93    June 93     Jan. 94     June 94



12
3.21   While tax reform in the oil sector implies significant reductions in tax rates, the negative
impact of such rate reduction on government tax receipts is expected to be more than offset by an
expansion of the tax base through incremental production.
3.22  Over the same period, there have been changes in the structure as well as level of the
Government's tax take, as reflected in Figure 3.4. Because simple revenue taxes are insensitive to
profitability, they distort investmnent decisions, discriminate against higher cost projects and reduce
the overall range of projects undertaken. At the beginning of 1992, the Russian Government's take
in the oil production subsector was composed almost entirely of revenue taxes. A corporate profits
tax was in place, but was never applied since the burden of revenue taxes left producers with no
taxable income. Later in the year, the Government began to reduce the revenue tax burden and to
restructure a significant portion of the revenue taxes, in particular the excise tax, so as to be more
sensitive to the underlying profitability of a project or Producer Association. This was done by
'tailoring" the excise tax charged to expected operating and capital costs in each Producing
Association or project area. By June 1993, the share of revenue taxes in total tax take was still
abnormally high, but the situation was improving. As Figure 3.4 shows, it has continued to improve
over the past year. These improvements relate to the taxation of established production from existing
license areas. In December 1993, the Government issued a Presidential Decree (Decree No. 2285)
which would dramatically simplify oil taxation and shift its structure towards profit-based taxes for
new licenses structured as production sharing agreements. Under the new Decree only three taxes
would be payable: (i) the corporate profits tax (currently 38%); (ii) a mining royalty (6% to 16%
depending on the production license); and (iii) a variable production or profit share negotiable in each
license. The Government is now actively preparing a series of normative acts or regulations to give
effect to the new Decree. A number of major new projects, involving capital investments estimated
in excess of US$ 35 billion and corresponding increases in production, would come under the new
tax system. International as well as domestic oil companies would be affected. Among the
international companies are Amoco, Elf, Exxon, Marathon, Mobil, Shell, Texaco and Total.
Figure 3.4: Structure of Oil Production Taxation
120%
100%
I-                 I O*L_. 
40.F  1 r/ 
20%
0%
Jan.92    Jan.93    June93    Jan.94    June94  Deree #2285
Date
I Revenue Taxes    cm Pront SenslUve Taxes



13
3.23  Other significant concerns raised by the Russian oil taxation system include: (i) its
complexity; and (ii) the lack of effective assurances of tax stability. As to complexity, the
Government has deleted some taxes over the past year (e.g. the complicated Price Regulation Fund)
and intends to phase out others (e.g. the Geological Fund). Its major initiative in this area, however,
is Decree 2285 which would reduce the number of applicable taxes from eight to three. With respect
to stability, the Government has provided assurances of its intent to maintain or deepen existing tax
incentives (see Annex 9-1) and recently issued an important Decree to restore export tax incentives
to international joint ventures. Onct again, Decree 2285 provides a model and contains attractive
language stabilizing fiscal arrangements.
3.24  Finally, as part of its oil tax reform program, the Goverrnent has taken steps to simplify tax
administration and increase the likelihood of compliance. By a Government Resolution issued in
April 1994, the percentage ad valorem excise tax was converted to an equivalent ruble per ton tax.
It is worth noting that care was taken in introducing this reform to avoid any increase in the statutory
burden of the tax and to maintain its variable, profit-sensitive, character.
F. Legal Framework for Oil Operations
3.25 A comprehensive, clear and stable legal framework for petroleum licensing and operations
is essential for successful future development of the Russian petroleum industry by Russian and by
international enterprises under market economy conditions. To date, such a framework, although
well progressed, is not fully in place and the investments required for rehabilitation of the industry
have been consequently withheld.
3.26 The Russian Government quickly identified the need for a legal framework and Russian
experts have completed a substantial amount of work in this area over the past 24 months. The
enactment of the Law on the Subsoil (May 1992) and the related Licensing Statute (July 1992),
together with the issuance of Regulations for its implementation, are significant achievements and
have been used successfully to launch an expanding program of tendering and licensing oil
exploration and production projects. Experts recognized, however, that these initial laws and
regulations, not being specific to petroleum, needed to be complemented and possibly in some areas
amended or replaced by special petroleum legislation.
3.27 Follow-on work on amendments to the Law on the Subsoil, a new draft Law on Oil and Gas
and a draft Law on Concessions and Contracts was well advanced by June 1993, but subsequent
legislative processing of these drafts was seriously disrupted by the political events of
September/October 1993 and new Parliamentary elections in December 1993. Fortunately, progress
resumed in 1994.
3.28 A comprehensive legal framework for petroleum is now expected to be in place by year-end
1994 or early 1995. The draft amendments to the Law on the Subsoil and the draft Law on Oil and
Gas have gone to Parliament for a first reading. Additional complementary legislation will be
submitted in the coming months. In December of last year, as noted above, (para 3.22) a
Presidential Decree was issued which would establish a new and attractive legal as well as fiscal
regime for agreements structured as production sharing agreements. Drafts of more detailed



14
legislation and regulations necessary to make this Decree effective are expected by July 1994.
Industry response to this initiative has been positive.
3.29  During the legal and contractual drafting process, the Government and Parliament have
maintained an extensive dialogue with both the domestic and international petroleum industry. This
consultation will continue through the period of legislative debate. The Bank has actively supported
this process.
G. Organization of the Oil Sector     2
3.30  Satisfactory clarification of the organization and legal status of the oil enterprises, of their
relationship to Government and of institutional responsibilities for petroleum within Government are
all very nmportant to the efficient functioning of Russia's oil sector and to attracting fmance and
investment.
3.31   The key institutions in Russia's oil sector are as follows:
(a)    Mintstry of Fuel and Power. The Ministry is responsible for oversight of the energy
sector and for policy development and regulation. The Ministry holds controlling
interests in national concerns such as Rosneft and over oil producing and refining
associations. The organization of the Ministry is described in Annex 3-1;
(b)    State Committee on Geology (Roskomnedra). The Committee has the same status as
a Ministry and is responsible for minerals and for oil exploration. Under the July
1992 Law on the Subsoil, the Committee is responsible jointly with regional
authorities for licensing of oil exploration and development;
(c)    Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. This Ministry has an
oversight role with respect to the environmental impact of all oil operations. Any
significant oil project requires clearance by the State Committee of Mineral
Resources, within the Ministry, on environmental grounds;
(d)   Regional Governments. Regional governments exercise a great deal of authority over
oil operations in their areas on matters which range from the purely operational to
legal and fiscal. Local infrastructure requirements in relation to oil operations are
of particular concern.
(e)    Scientific Institutes. In the past the Russian oil sector depended heavily on major
scientific institutes such as the Institate for the Study of Complex Fuel and Energy
Problems (VNOEIING), the Siberian Petroleum Institute and the Geological Institute
for advice on economic and technical topics. These institutes, formerly branches of
the key energy ministries, are now quasi-independent. They still exert considerable
influence;



15
(f)    Holding Companies. The Government is in the process of establishing a number of
holding companies to administer its shareholdings in oil enterprises.  This is
described more fully below,
(g)    Oil Enterprises. Actual operations in the oil sector are carried out by a large number
of oil exploration, producing, refining and transport enterprises or associations. In
the past, annual budgets, programs of work, anl production targets were provided
to the association by appropriate federal ministries. Today, the enterprises have
greater autonomy and are expected to be self-financing. Oil producing associations
usually have a number of sub-units (or NGDUs) which are responsible for individual
field operations.
3.32   The Russian oil sector is going through a period of rapid structural transformation. A large
number of uncertainties remain, but the outlines of the new sector are becoming clearer. Under a
Presidential Decree issued in November 1992, virtually all existing oil enterprises or amalgamations
thereof were to be corporatized, i.e. established as joint stock companies, before December 31,
1992. This deadline was not met, but the process is well advanced and, for most enterprises, already
completed. For a limited time period, the state will hold a controlling interest in each of these
enterprises either directly or indirectly through one or another of six newly created companies:
Rosneft, a large state enterprise, formed out of the previous state oil concern, Rosneftegas; four
vertically integrated joint stock companies, Lukoil, Yukos, Surgutneft and the very recently formed
Sidanco; and two transportation joint stock companies, Transneft for crude oil and Transneftprodukt
for oil products. A schematic diagramn of the new sector organization is contained in Annex 3-1.
3.33   Rosneft, a 100% state owned enterprise, is responsible for managing the state's shareholding
in a variety of oil producing and refining enterprises, including Tomskneft and Megionneftegas, two
of the beneficiaries under the proposed Project. The state's shareholding in each of these enterprises
will be 38% of total stock and 51% of voting stock. The four vertically oil integrated companies,
Lukoil, Yukos and Surgutneft and Sidanco are 45% state-owned and in turn hold 38% controlling
interests in another set of producing and refining enterprises, including, in the case of Yukos,
Yuganskneftegas, the third beneficiary under the proposed Project. The state appoints the Board
Chairman (General Directors) of Lukoil, Yukos, Surgutneft and Sidanco and key Government
ministries or agencies, including Fuel and Power, the State Property Committee and the
Antimonopoly Office, are represented on their Boards. Finally, the two transportation enterprises,
Transneft and Transneftprodukt, are 100% state-owned and in turn hold at least 51% of each of the
enterprises involved in oil transport.
3.34 Although the energy sector was specifically excluded from the 1992 Russian State Program
of Privatization, the Government's intent, expressed in its November 1992 Decree, is that interests
in oil enterprises which are not specifically identified for state holding will be made available to
employees and managers of the enterprises, to the public and to certain special interest groups, such
as native people in Siberia, through preferential share purchase schemes or the voucher system
established under the Program of Privatization. Up to a 15% shareholding will be available to
foreign investors. Further, except in the case of oil transport enterprises, it appears that the state's
controlling interest itself must be disposed of within three years.



16
3.35  The November 1992 Decree on oil goes further than other energy subsector decrees in
distancing commercial operations from  government, and in establishing a basis for rapid
corporatization and eventual privatization of enterprises in the subsector. This is appropriate.
Russia's oil sector is well suited to the early emergence of competition based on a significant number
of independent enterprises, at least in the exploration, production, refining and distribution functions.
The sector already contains more than 30 geological (exploration) associations, 40 producing
associations (many of which have sub-units or NGDUs which themselves could be viable commercial
enterprises) and 20 refining associations. Where natural monopolies exist for the present, e.g., in
crude oil and product transport, regulated independence of the enterprises involved could produce
competitive results and is under Government consideration.
3.36  As noted earlier, clarification of the institutional responsibilities for the petroleum subsector
is critical to its orderly development. In the context of encouraging new investmnent in the sector,
the Goverunent and the Parliament have made an important clarification of institutional roles in
designating the State Committee on Geology as the licensing authority in conjunction with Regional
authorities. Additional divisions of responsibility between the Ministry of Fuel and Power and the
Committee on Geology have been clarified in joint conununiques.
3.37  Other important responsibilities over the oil sector, for example, taxation (Ministry of
Finance), environmental protection (Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources)
and policy and sector oversight (Ministry of Fuel and Power) appear to have been reasonably agreed
at the level of the center or federal government. Relations between the center and the regions,
however, are still evolving in a number of important areas such as taxation, property rights and
licensing. These ambiguities need to be removed. The Government has assigned a very high
priority to progress in this area. Recently, a Protocol was signed between the Ministry of Fuel and
Power and the Khanty-Mansisk Okrug, the major oil producing region in Siberia, clarifying
respective roles in the oil sector.
H. Foreign Direct Investment in the Oil Sector
3.38  While Russia expects to attract some foreign equity investment in Russian oil enterprises in
the form of shareholding (para 3.34 above), a far more important need is for direct investment in
production rehabilitation and more importantly in the development of new oilfields.
3.39 The number of new oilfields commissioned for development has fallen at an alarming rate
over the past 2 to 3 years, from about 30 per year in 1991 to two in 1993. Enormous hydrocarbon
reserves, crucial to economic recovery, are left undeveloped for want of finance. Tendering of such
fields, including especially the participation of foreign oil companies, is the only practical near term
possibility for a turnaround in the rate of new field development. Foreign company participation has
the potential to bring massive new investment to Russia. Up to US$50 billion is believed to have
been earmarked for Russia by international companies, provided attractive projects are tendered on
reasonable terms and conditions. Foreign participation would also bring a significant transfer to
Russia of profit-oriented management skills and new technology, and beneficial risk sharing.
3.40 Russia's experiments to date with foreign investment in the oil sector have been very uneven.
Initially, there was a strong resistance to inviting meaningful foreign participation. The early deals



17
offered were not appealing: they were small, technically complicated or very high risk. Further,
since the legal and fiscal framework for oil tendering was inadequate, contract negotiations were
complex, lengthy and of necessity conducted at several levels. The contract approval process
involved local agencies and branches of goverrnent, at least six central ministries or conmnittees
and, ultimately, the President, Prime Minister and the Supreme Soviet. Not surprisingly, foreign
direct investment in the oil sector so far has been insignificant, certainly relative to sector needs.
That said, it has had a demonstrable impact on sector performance. Over 40 international joint
ventures are now operating in Russia. Most are small. However, productiorn in 1993 from these
ventures exceeded 10 mirllion tons or just under 3% of national production, and should increase in
1994.
3.41   Unfortunately, several of the smaller foreign joint venture projects that have gone ahead have
run into serious difficulties, partly due to differences between the local and foreign joint venture
partner, but in good part attributable to the failure of the government to deliver on export quotas,
predictable access to oil transport and on promised tax relief, particularly with respect to the export
tax. The Government appears to have largely resolved the quota and export tariff difficulties through
Decrees issued in May 1994 on the abolition of quotas amid the restoration of export tax privileges.
However, the experience of early joint ventures has had a dampening effect on new investor interest.
In fact, a sharp fall-off in interest in the smaller to medium-sized joint venture projects is already
apparent. No agreements on major new investment projects have been signed as yet. While 6 to
8 of these are pending with international oil companies, negotiations have been, until recently,
immensely complicated and time consuming.
3.42  Against this background, attracting foreign direct investment on the scale required will be a
daunting task. Nevertheless, the Govermnent of the Russian Federation and Regional Governments
are now devoting considerable attention to the preparation of project tenders. Based on the
experience painfully gained over the past two years, the process of tendering, while certainly not
complete, has been considerably refined. Two major tenders were conducted in 1993 in Khanty-
Mansisk (West Siberia) and Sakhalin (new areas). The results of the Khanty-Mansisk tender were
announced in September 1993. The tender drew bids from Shell, Amoco, Exxon, and Mobil, with
Amoco and Shell named as winners along with Russian partners. Winners in Sakhalin named in
January 1994 included Texaco, Mobil, and Exxon. Following tender awards, the winners must
negotiate detailed agreements with the relevant authorities. Recent tenders negotiations have moved
much faster than under earlier tenders. Several agreements could be signed in the next several
months. Their effectiveness, however, will be conditioned on satisfactory assurances regarding the
applicable legal and fiscal framework.
3.43  Preparation for international tendering is currently being carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Law on the Subsoil. Lead roles are played by the State Committee on Geology and
regional governments. Necessary coordination with the Ministry of Fuel and Power and other
ministries at the center and with agencies of regional government is achieved through a temporary
commission which includes representatives from all interested parties. Technical data packages are
being professionally prepared by joint ventures among three or four Russian institutes and western
service companies. In the event that new petroleuim legislation redefines the licensing authority,
great attention will need to be paid to the transition to ensure that work on tenders continues with
the minimum disruption.



18
3.44  The Government and a growing number of Regional Authorities are increasingly committed
to tendering attractive projects to the international and domestic industry. The current focus is on
exploration projects. A number of significant development projects already exist, however, and have
yet to be included in a tender. Most are under license to Producer Associations. A major challenge
for the Government will be to persuade the Associations to release these projects for tender to a joint
venture partner. The reluctanice of the Producer Associations is attributed to their concern that, until
the arrears problem is resolved or access to export markets is assured, early development of their
projects will prove uneconomic.
3.45   Finally, successful tendering to international investors will depend not only on an efficient
tendering process but also on: (i) clarification of past legislative and administrative actions,
particularly of those events which have sent a negative message to the international industry, (ii)
satisfactory legislation on petroleum licensing and taxation; and (iii) the resolution of a number of
policy issues specifically related to the conduct of a tender (for example, auction versus direct
negotiation and the terms and conditions of Russian participation in licenses). Industry reactions to
the recent Khanty-Mansisk and Sakhalin tenders confirmed the critical importance of progress in each
of these areas.
I. Russian Oil Sector Reform Program
3.46  As will be readily apparent from the foregoing, the introduction and implementation of a
reform package on the scale required to bring about recovery in the Russian oil sector is an
extraordinarily difficult task. Yet, the potential rewards to reform are enormous. Reforms should
be implemented on an urgent basis, as an integral part of the macroeconomic stabilization program,
because they offer the best opportunity for significantly relieving present and prospective budget and
balance of payments constraints.
3.47 Under the Technical Cooperation Agreement between the Russian Federation and the Bank,
the Government and the Bank engaged in an intensive dialogue in Russia's oil sector reform
progran. In the context of the First Oil Rehabilitation Loan, the Government provided the Bank
with a Letter of Intent which proposed that the practice of regular consultations with the Bank be
maintained with a view to achieving mutually satisfactory results, especially in the areas of price,
taxation and legislation. This program of consultations is now well established and will be continued
under the proposed Project. In addition, at the Government's request, the First Oil Rehabilitation
Loan includes a US$10 million component for technical assistance to support the Government's
sector reform in price, taxation, legislation and other areas such as enterprise restructuring and the
promotion of private investment. Implementation of this component is about to begin. In the
meantime policy programs funded by bilateral agencies under Bank supervision are ongoing.
3.48 Annex 3-2 summarizes progress to date on sector reforms and future reform targets. In the
context of the proposed Second Oil Rehabilitation Project the Government has provided the Bank
with a Letter of Policy Intent (Annex 9-1) outlining recent policy reforms and near term goals.



19
IV. THE BANK'S PETROLEUM LENDING EXPERIENCE
A. Petroleum Lending Experience Outside Russia
4.1    The proposed Project would be only the second Bank petroleum loan to Russia. However,
the Bank has considerable experience in financing petroleum projects elsewhere in the world, on the
basis of which it has developed a set of guidelines for oil lending. These guidelines emphasize the
promotion of policy reforms and private sector investment, the transfer of operational and managerial
expertise and the strengthening of the financial, lecinical and commercial capacity of the domestic
petroleum industry. Because of the p . ential detrimental impact of oil and gas projects on the
environment, the Bank assigns considerable importance to the adequacy of measures to avoid
pollution and harm to indigenous people, and more generally, ensure that any potential damage can
be brought rapidly under control.
B. First Oil Rehabilitation Project
4.2   The criteria and considerations listed above are reflected in the Bank's strategy for the
Russian petroleum sector and are incorporated into the Bank's First Oil Rehabilitation Loan to
Russia. The First Oil Rehabilitation Loan was structured as to both location and project components
to avoid displacement of private capital and was paralleled by a major program of technical
cooperation on policy issues. Technology transfer was built into the Loan as explicit technical
assistance and in the design of project implementation components which have attracted bids from
several major international oil companies as well as qualified international consultants. Repair and
replacement of leaking oil pipelines is a major component of the Project and will contribute directly
to environmental clean-up, as will improved drilling and production practices under the Project. The
Project makes specific provision for the acquisition of environmental equipment and technical
assistance. The structure of the First Oil Rehabilitation Project, which will be largely duplicated by
the proposed Second Project, has served as a model for similar projects prepared by other
international agencies, for example, the EBRD, and for private sector rehabilitation projects.
Further, the policy dialogue associated with the First Project has contributed to improvements in oil
prices and in the legal and the fiscal framework for new investments, enhancing the financial viability
of the oil sector and, attracting new, albeit as yet far from sufficient, funds to the sector.
4.3   The First Oil Rehabilitation Loan was declared Effective November 15, 1993.
Implementation for the most part has gone very smoothly. Lessons learned from the First Oil
Rehabilitation Loan highlight the importance of: (i) identifying a consistent counterpart team with
sufficient authority to move a project forward; (ii) coordinating among key interested parties
(Ministries, agencies, levels of government) on critical or controversial project issues; (iii) early
detailed attention to procurement and other implementation issues and the potential benefits of a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in this regard; (iv) involving local consultants and institutes in the
process; and (v) an early start in cooperation with the relevant Ministries on an Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA). The design and preparation of the proposed Project anticipates each of
these issues. Core teams of representatives from the Government and the Producer Associations
have been established to prepare and implement the Project on the Russian side. The Bank has
discussed with the Government the reed for close collaboration between Ministry of Fuel and Power,



20
Ministry of Finance, Parliamentary Committees and the Ministry of Justice during the later project
stages of signature, effectiveness and disbursement. The experience gained in the preparation of the
First Oil Rehabilitation Loan will be particularly helpful in this regard, both to the Bank and to the
Government. PPFs have been set up to expedite Project implementation. Local consultants aie
involved in procurement preparation and, at an early stage, were engaged to help prepare the EIA.
4.4   Other significant experience includes recognition of: (i) a deeply ambivalent attitude in Russia
towards foreign direct investment, official policies notwithstanding; and (ii) the lingering power of
old central planning views on policy formulation, business practices and the uses of new technology.
These issues have been taken up in the policy dialogue with Government and in Project design.
C. The Bank's Future Lending Strategy in the Russian Oil Sector
4.5   The greatest potential for early returns from Russia's oil sector lies in the restoration to
service of a portion of an estimated 25,000 to 35,000 idle wells in Western Siberia. While a large
number of these wells are not expected to be economic, many can be made to produce profitably
within a matter of months. Well workovers have been the principal focus of domestic and foreign
activity and development fiance over the past two years. Contracts for the restoration of 8,000
wells have been signed between Producer Associations and oil companies or service contractors. The
Bank's First Oil Rehabilitation Loan and the EBRD's parallel loan are essentially devoted to well
workovers, as are pending Japanese and US EXIM credits. Investments in this area have begun to
pay off already and there has been a perceptible slow-down in the annual rate of decline of domestic
production, from 15 percent in 1992 to an estimated 11 percent for 1993. The Bank's First Oil
Rehabilitation Loan will have a significant positive impact on production over the next 24 months,
equivalent at peak to 3 percent of national production. International joint ventures with Russian
Producer Associations have resulted in similar gains.  It should be noted that production
rehabilitation investments to date can be attributed in good part to the incentives which developed
out of the Government-Bank policy dialogue associated with the First Oil Rehabilitation Loan and
to the demonstration effect of the Loan. The design and policy components of the proposed Second
Oil Rehabilitation Project closely resemble those of the First Project.
4.6   The Bank's future lending strategy for Russia's oil sector can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Second Oil Rehabilitation Project:  The Bank's immediate focus will be on
implementation of the First Oil Rehabilitation Project and on timely completion and
implementation of the proposed Second Oil Rehabilitation Project. The rationale for
the Second Project is essendally the same as the First, including early economic
benefits and policy reform. However, this would be the Bank's last oil rehabilitation
project. The First and Second Project will have played a critical demonstration role
and alternative finance should become increasingly available.
(b)   New Proiect Areas: The Bank has already begun to turn to new project areas in the
oil sector, applying the same general criteria as were applied to the rehabilitation
projects. These include:



21
(i)   Joint Ventures: Support to joint venture development of major new oil fields.
In the medium to long-term, this is the only solution to declining production
and exports. One or two operations of this type are envisaged, to encourage
the early implementation of joint ventures between Russian and international
oil companies. The current lending program includes such a project for FY
96, which is now being prepared.
(ii)   Refinery Ungrading: Relatively modest investments in refmery modernization
could significantly reduce the volumes of crude oil consumed by domestic
refineries, freeing up crude oil for export.
(iii)   Crude Oil Transport:  "Debottlenecking" investments in the crude oil
transport sector can be expected to expand exports and improve production
incentives.  Investnents of this type will be critical to the success of
Government policies intended to free up crude oil exports.
4.7   The Bank has taken care to define its role in the Russian oil sector as that of a catalyst to
private investment. At the same timne, the Bank recognizes that private finance on the required scale
will not be forthcoming quickly. This is certainly true of major development projects, as well as
refining and crude oil transport. Bank funding can make a valuable direct contribution during a
transition period and at the same time, promote the conditions ultimately required to attract private
capital.
V. BORROWERS AND BENEFICIARIES
5.1   The Borrower and Guarantor of the proposed loan will be the Russian Federation represented
by the Ministry of Finance. The responsible sector ministry is the Ministry of Fuel and Power. The
beneficiaries will be three Producer Associations in Western Siberia, each of which is a joint stock
company: Megionneftegas (MNG), Tomskneft (TN), and Yuganskneftegas (YNG). Funds will be
on-lent to these Associations which will be responsible for implementing the Project (see Chapter
VI).
5.2   A brief account of the structure of the upstream Russian oil sector including the role of the
Producer Associations within this structure, is given in Chapter III. This Chapter provides generic
descriptions of the legal status and structure of Oil Producer Associations, which are characteristic
of the Associations participating in the Project. Further details are provided in Annex 5-1, which
summarizes the legal characteristics of the participating Associations. The operational and
management structures of these Associations are outlined in Annex 5-2.
A. Organization and Management
5.3   Producer Associations are operating entities generally responsible for oil and gas production
within a contiguous geographic region. Associations comprise a number of functional subsidiary
enterprises, the most important of which are NGDUs, the field operators. The management of the



22
Association is responsible for overseeing and coordinating the subsidiary enterprises, including
corporate activities such as external financing, govermnent relations, legal affairs, external
contracting with suppliers and customers, and arbitration and regulation of transfer prices between
subsidiary enterprises. The Producer Association generally has exclusive jurisdiction over oil
produced by the NGDUs.  The Associations are also responsible for the majority of social
infrastructure within their jurisdiction, although some Associations are starting to shift these
responsibilities to municipalities.
5.4   While the NGDUs are responsible for preparing production plans, these plans have
traditionally been finalized through negotiations between the Producer Association, the Ministry and
the State Oil Committee. Experts from the scientific institutes in Tyumen may provide third-party
assessment of achievable production levels. In the past, critical production decisions in the
Associations were subject to external control, and Producer Associations consequenty have limited
experience in decision making related to capital investment. In addition, since exploration was
carried out by the Ministry of Geology, they have minimal experience in evaluating exploration and
development opportunities. Producer Associations and Geologic Associations are beginning to form
alliances as central funding declines for the Geologic Associations, but this process is hampered by
uncertainty regarding rights and jurisdiction.
B. Legal Status
5.5   As discussed in Chapter 3, Decree 1403 of November 1992 established the framework for
oil sector reorganization over the next three to five years. By late 1993, the majority of Producer
Associations and even some NGDUs had been transformed into open joint stock companies. The
Associations participating in this Loan have all been established as joint-stock companies, a pre-
requisite for obtaining Bank financing. The majority of shares of these Associations eventually will
be held by employees and other private investors although initially the majority of voting shares are
currently or will shordy be held by the holding companies (Rosneft in the case of Megion and
Tomsk, and Yukos in the case of Yugansk) which in turn are controlled by the Government. Over
the next two to three years the Government is expected to divest its shares. In the interim the
Producer Associations will operate as autonomous organizations with the legal and administrative
powers expected of commercial enterprises.
C. Mineral and Land Rights
5.6   The legal regime and permits relating to mineral and land rights are also in the process of
being reformulated. Until recently, mineral permits were granted to Producer Associations for a
period of only two or three years and their renewal depended on a number of factors, including
production performance. In other words, there was no long-term security of rights. This system
clearly did not safeguard the right of extraction in existing oil fields, nor did mineral permits cover
pre-extraction exploration and appraisal rights. The Law on the Subsoil and the Statute on
Licensing, enacted during 1992, provide a framework for licensing. Licenses or permits issued
under these laws provide secure rights to explore, develop and produce petroleum for a reasonable
period, up to 25 years. Producer Associations submitted license applications for fields currently
under production during late 1992 and the Government has issued such licenses in conjunction with



23
joint stock company approvals. Evidence of field licenses, together with rights to surface access to
the land under license, has been provided by the Beneficiaries of the proposed Project.
D. Relationship with Subunits
5.7    While overall coordinating and controlling fun lions are carried out by the Producer
Association, each Association delegates some rights to its NGDUs, including the rights to conclude
contracts, operate current bank accounts, manage the property entrusted to them for the purposes
stipulated in their charters, and decide on labor issues. The scope of these rights is determined by
the Producer Association and specified in the NGDU's by-laws, which are also approved by the
Association. Tbe status and power of NGDUs vary substantially according to the amount of power
the parent Producer Association vests in them. Some NGDUs are allowed to enter into external
contracts, participate in foreign joint ventures, maintain settlement bank accounts in addition to
simple current accounts and take on debt.
5.8    Since NGDUs will play a critical role in implementing the proposed Project, it is important
to ensure that relationships between the participating Producer Associations and their NGDUs remain
stable. Establishment of the Producer Associations as joint stock enterprises has clarified the
relationship and provides the mechanism for stability. None of the NGDUs of the Associations
participating in the Project have the status of separate legal entities. The NDGUs of the participating
Associations have also been involved from the beginning in defming and preparing the proposed
Project.
E. Accounting Systems
5.9    All Russian enterprises use the national accounting system that is based on a unified chart of
accounts and specified rules for recording all transactions. These accounts have historically been
driven by tax and state reporting needs. A new unified system of accounts was introduced in
February 1992. This system, based partly on international Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP) and arising from a United Nations sponsored accounting review, is considered an
improvement over the previous system but still dictates the recording of all financial transactions
based on standardized rules and accounts and not on accounting principles'. Accrual based accounting
was adopted in principle in 1992 and implementation is currently underway. The planned transition
to international GAAP over the next few years is creating great uncertainty as most Russian
accountants are not familiar with the concepts of GAAP.
5.10 The accounting systems in the Producer Associations generally provide an adequate structure
for maintaining Project accounts. Transactions are recorded at the NGDU level where Project
iInplementation will occur, the law requires that transactions be appropriately documented, and there
are sufficient numbers of trained accounting clerks at each NGDUJ. However, recording errors still
occur. Instances of unrecorded fixed assets are common, and since enterprises rarely take trial
I/ A number of other initiatives in general accounting reform are under way, including: (i) EU funding of ongoing
work in accounting reform by the International Advisory Board (a group of Bank, international and Russian
government and academic experts), (ii) UN sponsored translation of well-known US accounting text books, (iii) the
British Council's funding of courses for 40 accounting trainers, and (iv) World Bank funding of trainer programs.



24
balances, errors are prevalent at the end of the accounting period. Experience has shown that some
transactions, such as the recording of foreign currency or intra-enterprise payments, can create
problems when they are not adequately prescribed in the unified system. Enterprise accounting also
shows a lack of regard for materiality: for instance, numerous insignificant items might be recorded
while major items may be lumped within miscellaneous accounts.
5.11   In general, Producer Associations have computerized only payroll, fixed assets and contract
accounting. All Producer Associations are in the process of increasing computerization but are
hindered by a lack of finances, trained staff and adequate software. Most Russian accounting
software is poorly designed and with the volatility of the Russian chart of accounts, quickly out of
date. International accounting software that can prepare accounts in different formats is often
adopted for use in foreign joint ventures but is not a long term solution for Producer Associations'
overall accounts.
5.12   The management information systems of the Producer Associations will require substantial
improvements since they have been geared to satisfying information requirements for the Ministries,
not internal management needs. The enterprises are increasingly required to make strategic decisions
that were previously made by the old Ministries of Oil and Geology. Capital budgeting procedures
and criteria will need to be developed and supported by the information system. Cash management
is also an unfamiliar and critical task currently facing the Associations.
5.13  During discussions with the Associations it was agreed that financial advisory services would
be provided to support Project implementation and the Associations in general (para 6.20). These
specialists would help ensure that project accounting procedures meet the Bank's requirements,
provide short-term advisory services in critical areas such as cash management, assist in the
preparation of financial statements according to international standards, and provide training in
international oil and gas accounting practice. The specialists will come from one of the large
international accounting firms familiar with both Russian and international oil and gas accounting.
Terms of Reference for the proposed fiancial advisory services are provided in Annex 6-7.
5.14   A longer-term consideration, associated with privatization in particular, will be the need to
re-establish the Associations' financial positions. Current balance sheets are misleading for a number
of reasons. The historic cost basis of fixed assets results in serious underestimation of the current
economic value of the assets2. The value of oil reserves are not included in the Association's assets.
Conversely the balance sheets typically contain non-oil assets (such as farms and social infrastructure)
and are often inflated by double counting. Uneconomic and obsolete assets currently on the balance
sheets (such as dated receivables) will need to be written off and, by international standards, capital
investment (for example, drilled wells) is generally high relative to production levels. Re-estimation
of the Associations' balance sheets will need to be conducted from the perspective of the net present
value of future earnings. Simple revaluation of assets to current prices will not provide an accurate
picture of the Association's economic value. The current process of selling shares in the integrated
holding companies, such as Lukoil and Yukos, to the domestic and international markets will provide
initial indications of company values.
2/ The value of current assets exceeds the value of fixed assets for each Association in the Project.



25
F. External and Internal Audits
5.15   The preparation of pro-fonna financial statements based on the Russian chart of accounts is
mandatory in Russia. Statements of income and balance sheets are submitted quarterly to the
Government. However, external audits of these statements are only required where a foreign joint
venture or foreign trade is involved. Otherwise the Producer Associations do not have formal
external audit arrangements. Tax inspections (compliance audits) occur periodically but are not
mandatory. Tax audits are adversarial, and mainly involve checking that all transactions have been
recorded in accordance with Russian law and include a review of documentation, co- ract formats
and compliance with legal requirements. This type of audit requires a very detailed and lengthy
review of the Producer Association's manual ledgers. A typical GAAP audit based on Generally
Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) is not required.
5.16 Currently over 1,000 firms offer audit services in Russia including the "big six" international
finms. The international accounting fims are well established and active in Russia, some with a
large contingent of Russian accountants and auditors trained in international GAAP. The audit firms
in Russia currently operate without license or regulation3. During 1993 the Russian administration
and previous legislature deliberated draft national legislation aimed at establishing a framework for
accounting, record-keeping and reporting as well as prescribing certain minimum accounting concepts
and standards generally along the lines of GAAP. While the draft law cleared all parliamentary
hurdles it was vetoed by the executive. In its place a decree, 'Temporary Rules for Audit", was
issued in December 1993. Passage of a law governing accounting and audits is expected during
1994.
5.17  Internal accounting controls in the Associations are maintained through internal audit
departments that typically have two to four staff. Overall accounting resources range from 8 to 18
people in the Producer Association, and a greater number within the NGDUs. The chief accountants
of the NGDUs report to the chief accountant of the Producer Association who in turn reports directly
to the Director General of the Association.
5.18   Prior to initial loan disbursement the Producing Associations participating in the proposed
Project will be required to appoint external financial auditors acceptable to the Bank. The proposed
audit law for Russia should be in place prior to submission of the first set of audited financial
statements from the Associations and will provide the framework for audits and financial reporting.
If this law is delayed, then in the interim, GAAP based audits of the Association's Statements of
Income and Cash Flow should be possible, since accrual accounting is under implementation and a
qualified restatement of the accounts to GAAP is possible. However, a GAAP audit of the
Association's Balance Sheets will not be meaningful until rules governing revaluation are established.
31 A Bank Implementation Mission in late 1993 shortlisted 8 Russian audit firms as acceptable to conduct audits
of Project accounts for Bank projects. These firms were deemed capable of conducting full financial audits of
borrowers only in association with one of the "big 6" international audit firms.



26
5.19   The participating Producer Associations will furnish to the Bank:
(a)    Actual and forecast financial statements, within three months of the end of each fiscal
year;
(b)    Audited project accounts beginning with the account for fiscal year 1994, within six
months of the end of each fiscal year; and
(c)    Audited financial statements of the Association (including a qualified restatement in
accordance with GAAP if required) showing their performance and position
beginning with fiscal year 1994, within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
G. Financial Situation and Prospects
5.20   The Producer Associations in Western Siberia have generally experienced severe erosion of
their fimancial positions over the past five years. The most vLsible cause of this erosion is the sharp
drop in production as shown in Table 5.1 below. Overall production levels in Western Siberia
declined by almost 40% over the period 1988 to 1993, from 409 million tons per year to 248 million
tons. The causes of production decline are varied: inadequate investment in new fields to replace
mature reservoirs; idle wells due to shortages of production equipment; premature water
breakthrough; and a disincentive to reactivate idle wells due to inadequate producer revenues. A lack
of fimancial reserves, low producer prices and reductions in Government budget allocations are the
root causes of the low levels of investment in Western Siberia over the past five years. During the
past two years a further complication has been the rise in inter-company arrears, resulting from the
economic restructuring, friction in the banking system, and the disincentive to pay under conditions
of high inflation. Only in April 1994 were Associations formally allowed to stop shipments to
delinquent customers4. The upstream oil sector was collectively owed in excess of 6.4 trillion rubles
(US$3.5 billion) at end February 1994 and in mm owed suppliers and the Government a similar or
greater amount.
Table 5.1: Annual Oil Production by Association
(million tons)
Producer           1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993
Association
Megionneftegas    21.5      19.7     17.3     16.7     14.6     13.5
Tomskneft         14.5      14.9     15.0     14.0     12.0     11.6
Yuganskneftegas   68.3     65.3     59.1     50.5     40.8      33.4
Westem Siberia    408.7    404.5    374.6    332.4    287.0    248.0
Western Siberia              1%       7%       11%      14%      13%
Annual% Decline
4/ Presidential Decree #307, April 8, 1994



27
5.21   Production decline has not been uniform across the participating Producer Associations.
Megionneftegas (MNG) has dropped 37% over the past five years; Tomskneft (TN) has lost 23%;
Yuganskneftegas (YNG) production has dropped by 51% and the super-giant Mamontova field in
Yugansk, over 70%. Variations between Producer Associations stem from different reservoir
characteristics and age, management capability and location.
5.22 All Producer Associations face serious cash flow problems. In early 1992, losses stemming
from production decline were compounded by increases in input costs of 30 to 60 times, as supplier
prices were liberalized, while oil revenues increased much less under state price control. Decree
1089 of September 1992 provided Associations with the ability to raise prices subject to a price limit
of 1.5 dmes production costs and subject to their ability to negotiate the increased prices in the
market. This led to a fourfold increase in average crude oil prices. In 1993, the price limit was
abolished. Prices have been more or less freely negotiated since and constrained only by export
limitations and conditions in the domestic market. While producer revenues improved, cash flow was
still poor because of worsening customer payment problems. Trade receivables for the three
Associations included in the proposed Project exploded to over 30% of sales during 1993. The
Associations rely heavily on barter as one means of managing cash flow under these conditions.
Cash flow will improve as oil price reform continues but the Producer Associations are likely to face
payment problems for some time as the downstream oil sector goes through significant structural
adjustment. Control of cash flow during the current period of high inflation and sectoral adjustment
will be one of the most critical tasks facing management.
5.23  Arrears to oilfield suppliers rose dramaticaly in response to these cash shortfalls,
exacerbating the problem of oilfield equipment shortages. The Associations are also often in arrears
on salaries, contributing to a loss of experienced staff. The Producer Associations currently have
limited scope to reduce staff and operadng costs in response to these changes, although many
external drilling crews have been dismissed. Making the necessary structural adjustments (notably
in labor productivity) to minnize cost escalation and retain cash flow for new field development will
be a major challenge for the Associations. Capital and labor productivity is substantially below that
of international oil companies. Further details of the Producer Associations' historic financial status
are provided in Annex 5-3.
5.24 Improvement in sector financial performance has been supported through a number of
Government reforms over the past two years, including liberalization of the domestic crude oil
market to allow Producers to negotate prices freely with domestic buyers; provision of export
permits for incremental production from major rehabilitation projects and new fields; export tax relief
where commensurate investment occurs; excise tax relief for high cost production, and profit tax
relief through asset revaluation, accelerated depreciation and investment tax credits. Continued
progress on domestic price, tax and market reform is planned as summarized in Annexes 3-2 and
9-1.



28
5.25 In the medium to long term, the Producer Associations have the resources to regain financial
viability. While oil production has declined, each Association still holds significant oil reserves5.
The Producer Associations have well-trained and innovative technical staff. How quickly and
effectively the Associations are able to develop the management skills needed for commercial
operations is a critical and unpredictable factor for future success. That the three Associations
participating in the proposed Project are willing to work with international oil companies is a positive
sign. Project advisors (see para 6.20) will provide furrther support for this transitiot. The
Associations currently have low financial risk as they are not encumbered with long-term debt.
However, short-term debt and payments arrears have increased dramatically in the past year and it
is uncertain what fixed financial obligations to the state will be established as part of privatization
and whether these obligations will reflect realistic asset values.
VI. TlHE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
6.1    The proposed Project's principal objectives are to: (i) slow the rate of oil production decline
in Western Siberia and thus strengthen the Russian Federation's ability to earn foreign exchange in
the near term; (ii) transfer international technical, environmental and managerial practice to the
operation of oil fields in West Siberia; (iii) promote a more efficient and environmentally sustainable
use of Russia's petroleum resources; and (iv) through policy consultations, continue past support to
sector reforms conducive to attracting the equity and loan finance anc international participation
necessary to reverse the oil production decline.
B. Project Description
6.2    The investment intervention in the oil sector most likely to yield early economic benefits is
the provision of essential inputs to support current oil production operations. Oil production has
fallen in recent years at a faster rate than normal reservoir decline would dictate due to curtailment
of normal workover operations, reduced in-fill drilling and lack of spare parts to replace equipment
such as inoperative pumps. By some estimates 35,000 production wells in Western Siberia are
inoperative. Since Western Siberia represents over 70% of national oil production, this level of
shutdown has a critical impact on one of Russia's key sources of foreign exchange. The Siberian
Scientific Research Institute estimates that 70% of these idle wells can be restored with simple
workover investments. The location of the West Siberian basin in relation to the other main oil
producing basins in Russia is shown in Map IBRD 24146R1.
6.3    The proposed Project will focus on Producer Associations in Western Siberia. Map IBRD
24145R1 indicates the locations of the main petroleum Producer Associations of Western Siberia.
5/ Estmated recoverable oil reserves in the eight fields covered by the Project are: 30 million tons for MNG, 240
million tons for TN and 375 million tons for YNG. These levels represent in excess of 15 years of current production
for each field. The Associations each hold significant additional reserves in other fields.



29
During Project preparation, a number of Producer Associations in West Siberia were approached and
visited. The number of Producer Associations to be included in the proposed Project is limited to
three to facilitate speedy project preparation, avoid unduly complex implementation arrangements,
and ensure the availability of a critical mass of resources to each. Megionneftegas, Tomskneft and
Yuganskneftegas are included based on the following criteria:
(a)    The quality of programs proposed by the Association and their early response to the
opportunity to participate in the Project, and their willingness to support rapid project
preparation;
(b)   The openness of management towards innovation and their desire to move quickly
towards commercialization and market-oriented operations, and
(c)    The presence of international oil companies in the Association (in service contracts,
joint ventures or other arrangements), which is an indication of the willingness of the
Association to be open towards private capital and new technology.
6.4   Based on a technical review of the geology of selected fields, and a well-by-well assessment
of the work programs planned to be undertaken by the three Associations, the following general
components are recommended for inclusion in the proposed Project for each Association:
(a)    Oil Field Modernization: A two year integrated program of oilfield rehabilitation
which will comprise: modernization of approxiinately 1,200 wells including provision
of measuring facilities; and reconstruction of associated surface facilities, particularly,
oil pipelines (over 800 km) and water conduits, with corrosion resistant pipe. The
programs will be focussed on wells and surface facility replacement in up to three
fields within each Association to ensure investments are sufficiently concentrated so
that workovers are fully supported by reliable surface facilities. The criteria for
selecting the fields focused on economic returns but also considered the potential
impacts of future programs in the field. Since the well operations would not occur
until early 1995 they should not interfere with wells currently under contract to other
parties.
(b)   In-fill Drilling: Programs of in-fill and step-out drilling (127 wells) have been
identified in each Association including the drilling of horizontal wells from existing
wellpads. Horizontal wells are recommended to avoid drilling in environmentally
sensitive regions of the field and to increase productivity rates per well, thereby
reducing the number of wells required to efficiently drain the reservoirs.
(c)   Environmental Protection: Support for environmental protection wiU be provided
through; enhancement of the Association's emergency response capabilities,
environmental monitoring and management training including assistance in planning
programs to safeguard the interests of national minorities in or near Project areas
and through trial clean-up programs, such as bioremediation, for previous spills and
damage. This support will include provision of training, manuals and equipment, such
as vacuum trucks, skimmers, laboratories and testing facilities.



30
(d)   Field Optimization Study: A comprehensive field optimization study will be carried
in one of the fields currently under production within each Association. This study
would be aimed at identifying and evaluating optimal plans for future operation of the
field including both subsurface and surface facility considerations. This study will
re-examine current development strategies with the goal of establishing whether the
field could be exploited with a reduced number of wells at an in-situ reservoir
pressure considerably lower than present. The program would include provision of
computer equipment and services, such as workstations and software support, plus
training to undertake reservoir analysis and simulations. The study would be carried
out by engineers within the Associations, supplemented as needed by experts from
the Russian oil research institutes and international experts.
6.5   Projects of the type proposed can be implemented relatively quickly. Implementation is
expected to occur over roughly a 2-year period once equipment reaches the field. Comparable
programs underway in Western Siberia arc being completed in similar or even shorter periods. The
estimated project cost is US$678 million (including 15% import duties). The workover and drilling
programs included in the Project are derived from broader investment programs and equipment lists
provided by the Associations. It is important to note that the programs (and therefore the equipment
and services lists) were derived during project preparation, based on the situation prevailing at that
point in time. There will inevitably be some changes in the composition of the equipment and
service lists at the time of implementation. A sufficient level of flexibility has been built into the
procurement arrangements to accommodate these changes.
6.6   Annex 6-1 provides technical background and details of the proposed Project including the
geological setting, current operations and plans of the Associations involved, and the programs
recommended for consideration under the proposed Project. Some of the main technical issues and
how they would be addressed are discussed below.
6.7   While there is clearly an abundance of high-calibre technical staff in the Producer
Associations, production decline cannot be reduced simply by providing goods and services to the
Producer Associations. Historic technical and incentive constraints are gradually diminishing, but
there is still a risk that equipment could be deployed in the workoverl drilling of low-productivity
wells that would not be economically and financially viable, unless appropriate measures are
introduced in the project design. The workover screening practices of the Associations have been
audited by technical consultants and found to be adequate. Nonetheless, screening of well candidates
at the time of implementation will be essential to select wells with sufficient productivity potential.
This screening would be accomplished through review of work plans by consultant technical
specialists attached to Project hnplementation Units (PIUs), which would be established in each of
the participating Producer Associations and charged with the responsibility of implementing the
Project. The structure and staffing of the PIUs are discussed in paras 6.19-6.22. In addition, the
PIUs, assisted by the technical specialists, would help determine technical changes that could enhance
operational efficiency and increase productivity. To enable this, the PIU would need to:
(a)   Realign performance criteria to conform  with economic oilfield development
practices. This would entail departure from previous practices such as assessing the



31
performance of drilling enterprises by the number of meters drilled; and construction
enterprises, by the length of pipe laid or the number of welds per day.
(b)   Introduce new technology where required.  This would entail departure from
uniform, standardized approaches for a wide range of applications, with more
attention to specific requirements of individual fields and wells. The application of
sub-optimal techniques has led to a number of major problems. A prime example is
the excessive waterflooding of fields which has added substantially to the cost of
production and affected the overall recovery from reservoirs. Other examples include:
the excessive production of water which is transported over long distances before
separation; and the inhibition of well productivity by setting subsurface pumps at
uniformly shallow depths due to technical constraints.
6.8   To enhance the productivity of wells included in the Project, particularly in areas where the
rate of production under existing techniques would be marginal, it is proposed to lower the sub-
surface pumps, in addition to improving producing zone segmentation and casing perforation.
Although greater pump depth will require heavier tubing and increased rig capacity, productivity
increases between 50-100% are expected to be achieved. The Project will also introduce limited
horizontal drilling of new wells. This technique will not only reduce the number of vertical wells
normaUly required to drain the reservoirs, thereby reducing future operating expenses, but will also
minimize environmental impacts, especially in environmentally sensitive areas. On waterflooding,
while it may not be feasible to substantially change the procedures in the short-run, the Field
Optimization Studies proposed under the Project would provide the basis for improvements in the
future. Further discussion of technical issues is included in Annex 6-2. The recommended scope
of work for the Field Optimization Studies is contained in Annex 6-3.
6.9  In early 1992 the Government promulgated Decree IOR enabling private oil companies to
invest in workover operations and be paid through an exportable share of the incremental oil
production resulting from these operations. The program was extended in March 1993 via
Government Resolution #179 and broadened to allow cost recovery for local and foreign service
contracts in addition to direct investment. These workover programs, while not the long-term
solution to production decline (which will require substantial new field development), are to be
encouraged as a short-term measure. To date contracts for the rehabilitation of over 8,000 wells have
been signed. Some of these programs are being innplemented within the three Associations in the
proposed Project and care has been taken to ensure that the Project does not interfere with, but rather
complements, the efforts of the private sector. Indeed, the presence of private sector operations and
the associated technical expertise would be beneficial to the Associations and the proposed Project.
C. Project Cost Esthnates
6.10 The costs of individual Project components based on a roughly two-year disbursement
between late 1994 and end-1996, are summarized in Table 6.1, for the participating Producer
Associations.
6.11  The basic procurement packages for the Project are summarized in Table 6.2 including
physical and price contngencies by package. Further details on quantities of items and scheduling



32
of costs are given in Annex 6-4. As noted in para 6.5, sufficient flexibility has been built into
procurement arrangements to enable changes in the composition of equipment and services for each
of tie Producer Associations to take into account changing conditions during project implementation.
Table 6.1: Project Cost Breakdown by Component
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Component          Meglonneftegas       Tomskneft      Yuganskneftegas        Total
Number   Cost  Number   Cost   Number   Cost   Number  Cost
OPERATION 1/
WeUl Workovers                     75      16       525      111       576    121      1,176    249
In-Fill New Wells                   76   120         11       14        40      67       127    201
Surface Facility Installation (kn)  255    20       576       47         -      -        831     67
Environmental Management                    5                  5                 5                15
Field Optimization Study                    3                  8                 8               19
Unallocated Rig Costs & Misc.               2                  6                17               25
Implementation TA                           4                  5                 4                12
Sub-Total                                  169                195               223               587
Import Duties 2/                           15                 18                20               53
Interest During Constr. & Fees             12                 12                14               38
Total Financing Required 3/                196                225               257               678
Notes:
1/ Costs include 6% physical contingencies plus average price contingencies of 2% from late 1993 cost estimates
(source: Staff estimates).
2/ Oil producers are required to pay 15% import duties on equipment and materials.
3/ Numbers may not add due to rounding.



33
Table 6.2: ProJect Cost Breakdown by Goods and Services
(US$ million equivalent)
Goods and Services          Megionneftegas                Tomnskneft             Yuganskneftegas         Total
Local    Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total    Costs
1. Equipment & Materials
BaseCost                       -        92     92                116    116      -         128     128      336
Physical Contingencies 1/               6      6       .         10      10                10      10       26
Price Contingencies                     I       I      -          2      2       -          2       2        6
Total Cost                              99      99      -        128    128        -       140      140      367
2. Connmodities
Base Cost                                7      7    -            2       2                 4        4       13
Physical Contingencies        -         0      0    -             0      0    -             0       0        1
Price Contingencies           -         0      0                         0                  0       0        0
Total Cost                     -         8       8                 2       2    -            5       5        14
3. Services
Base Cost                    -          34     34                20      20       -         34      34       88
Physical Contingencies       -          2      2       -          2      2       -          2       2        6
Price Contingencies          -          1       1                 0      0                   1     1        2
Total Cost                    -         37      37       -        22      22                37       37       96
4. Technical Assistance
Base Cost                  -             6      6    -            8       8    -             7       7       21
Physical Contingencies    -             0      0                  1       1                 1       1        2
Price Contingencies       -             0      0    -             0      0                  0       0        0
Total Cost                 -             6       6     -           8       8    -            8       8        23
5. Local Labor/Consuction
Base Cost                     19        -      19      35    -           35      32    -            32       85
Physical Contingencies                        ..       -    -                    -
Price Contingencies           0        -       0        1   -             I       1   -             1        2
Total Cost                    19         -      19      35    -           35      33    -           33       87
6. Local Transport
Base Cost                                           -            -      -              -        -
Physicat Contingencies                                                   -       -
Price Contingencies          .         .       .                         . -
Total Cost                                              .                          .
7. Import Duties /2             15      -         IS      18         -      18      20          -     20        53
Total Base Project Costs         34       139    173      53        145    197      52        174     226      596
Physical Coningencies        -          8      8       -         12     12       -         13      13       34
Price Contingencies           Q        _       3       1          3      3        1         3       4       10
Total Project Cost /3            35       150    184      53        160    213      53        190     243      640
8. Interest During Constr.
on IBRD Loan               -        12      12       -         12     12       -         14      14       38
9. Total Financing Required      35       161    196      53        172    225      53        204     257      678
Notes:
1/ Costs include 6% physical contingencies plus average prce contingencies of 2% from late 1993 cost estimates.
2/ Oil producers are required to pay 15% import dut on equipment and materials.
31 Numbers may not add due to runding.



34
D. Financing Plan
6.12 The financing plan outlined in Tables 6.3 and 6.4 includes an IBRD loan of IUS$500 million
equivalent. The Producer Associations would be responsible for US$141 million equivalent of local
costs, including import duties totalling approximately US$53 million equivalent, and US$38 million
in foreign exchange for interest and other fmancing charges during the implementation period. While
co-financing was sought during Project preparation to fill the financing gap for a larger project it was
not possible to conclude arrangements on a basis acceptable to all relevant parties.
Table 6.3: Proposed Financing Plan by Institution
(US$ million equivalent)
Financing Source          Local  Foreign    Total    % of
Total
IBRD                        -       500      500    74%
Producer Associations     141       38       178    26%
Total                     141      538       678    100%
Percent of Total          21%      79%     100%
Table 6.4: Proposed Financing Plan by Component and Association
(US$ million equivalent)
Financing Source    Megionneftegas          Tomskneft           Yuganskneftegas
Total
Local Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Costs
IBRD             -       150   150     -      160   160      -      190    190    500
Producer         35      11    46    53        12    65      53      14    67    178
Associations
Total Financing   35      161   196    53      172   225      53      204    257    678
6.13 The proposed IBRD loan would be available to partly finance equipment, materials, services
and technical assistance in each of the participating Producer Associations. Direct disbursement
procedures will be used to ensure that funds flow directly to the proposed Project. Special Accounts
would not be utilized. Project Agreements would be concluded between the Bank and each of the
Associations. A Loan Agreement would be concluded with the Russian Federation, represented by
the Ministry of Finance. Subsidiary Loan Agreements would be concluded between the Russian
Federation and each of the Associations.
6.14 The Bank loan would be from the Currency Pool with a maturity of 17 years, including 5
years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The on-lending terms to the Associations
would include a maturity of 10 years, including 2 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable



35
interest rate plus an on-lending premium equal to 75 basis points payable to the Government.
Revenues going to the Government as a result of the mismatch in grace periods will be re-lent to
fmance projects in each of the participating Producer Associations, including projects for the
mitigation of adverse environmental impacts and for the support and development of indigenous
peoples. The Subsidiary Loan Agreements will include mechanisms to accomplish this and assure
adequate review and supervision of the projects so financed.
6.15  Since project cash flow is greater in the early years due to the declining production profile,
equal annual principal payments have been chosen by the Borrower, as opposed to an amortization
schedule more heavily weighted to the later years.
6.16  While the Associations meet eligibility criteria for a Single Currency Loan (SCL) and would
benefit from a SCL loan, which would match US dollar revenues from the export of incremental
production from the proposed Project with a US dollar liability, the pilot nature of the SCL program
precludes use of a SCL loan at this time.
6.17 The lending arrangements, legal linkages, flow of funds and the flow of goods and services
under the Bank's loan are presented in Annex 6-5.
E. Insurance
6.18 Insurance for goods and services to the point of delivery to the Producer Associations would
be covered under the bids from suppliers. In addition, an umbrella logistics/shipping contract may
be used, as in the First Oil Rehabilitation Project, to cover inspection, expediting and shipping
services from supplier to Project site. Insurance coverage for the operations of the Producer
Associations has historically been provided through budget transfers from the Government. This
arrangement will continue under current ownership conditions through the holding companies which
own majority shares in the Producer Associations. The Associations are effectively self-insured with
risks shared among the different Associations. Self-insurance is an accepted practice in the
international oil industry due to the high cost of external insurance. The Russian insurance industry
is also not well developed at this time. While there are over 900 insurance finms, they are generally
small and inadequately capitalized. The majority are likely to disappear once the proposed Insurance
Law (expected to be introduced to Parliament this year) is passed. Only a few Russian insurance
firms could potentially provide coverage to the upstream oil sector although they have no experience
with the sector at this time. The cost of insurance coverage could range from 0.5% to 2.0%,
depending on the state of facilities and the risk inherent in the operations. Premiums will likely tend
to the higher end given the lack of maintenance over the past 5 years. The insurance industry would
also be unlikely to provide significant enviroznental liability coverage.
F. Implementation Arrangements
6.19 For each Producer Association involved in the Project, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
would be established which consists of the following Russian staff to be designated by the
Association: a Project Director would head the PIU and would be supported by a Technical
Manager, Procurement Manager, Finance Manager and a Logistics/ Administrative Officer. In
addition to the PIU, each of the Producer Associations would form a Field Technical Units at the



36
NGDU level consisting of the following staff designated by the Association: a Geologist, a Reservoir
Engineer, a Production Engineer, a Drilling Engineer and an Environmental Specialist. Project
Directors have been appointed and are in the process of assigning personnel to the PIUs.
6.20 To strengthen each PIU, consulting support services would be provided under the proposed
loan to assist the Technical, Procurement and Finance Managers. In order to facilitate project
implementation, it is required that internationally known firms conversant with Russian and Bank
practices be selected to provide the following specialists for each PIU;
(a)    Specialists  to  support the  Technical Manager  would  likely  include: a
geologist/reservoir engineer, a production engineer, a drilling/ workover engineer,
a pipeline engineer and an environmental specialist. These and other home office
specialists would provide advice on project implementation to the PIU Technical
Manager in their respective areas of competence. This advice would be extended to
the NGDU level through the Field Technical Units;
(b)   The Procurement and Logistics Managers would be supported by a procurement
specialist and a logistics/ materials management specialist to advise on the required
procurement procedures under the loan and to assist in all aspects of the procurement
process including the preparation of bid documents, evaluation of bids, the
preparation of contracts with suppliers of equipment and services, expediting,
inspection, transport, logistics and disbursement procedures. These persons will assist
local procurement specialists contracted to assist the Associations. In view of the
urgency of commencing these activities as soon as possible, the Technical and
Procurement Specialists will be financed under a PPF advance; and
(c)   Financial specialists would assist in establishing project accounting procedures,
facilitate the preparation of financial statements which conform with international
standards, and provide general financial advice to the Producer Association.
6.21   The organization chart of the PIU is presented in Annex 6-6. Draft Terms of Reference of
the consultant specialists are included in Annex 6-7. Once the Technical and Procurement Specialists
are established in each of the Associations, it is expected that the bidding process for the other
specialists would be initiated.
6.22  On-the-job training will be provided to Producer Association managers through the specialists
supporting the PIUs and the technical service contractors. Training in field development plaming
will be provided within the proposed Field Optimization Studies. General training in enterprise
management for all the Producer Associations in West Siberia is envisaged under the Bank's
proposed Project for Management and Financial Training and the European Union's management
training programs established at Tyumen University.
6.23  Project supervision, as detailed in Annex 6-8, will entail 45 staff-weeks per year, with four
supervision missions during the first year of implementation and three during the second.



37
G. Reporting Arrangements
6.24  Reporting arrangements are particularly important given the nature of the Project, which will
require frequent adjustment of the work program to compensate for changing conditions during
implementation. Agreement was reached with the Associations that their respective PlUs will prepare
monthly progress reports on physical progress of the project, procurement status, costs incurred and
anticipated, disbursements, administrative and institutional performance. In addition, the project
accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank according to
acceptable auditing standards. Understandings were reached on the submission of fimancial
statements, and audited accounts for the Project and for each Association (see para 5.19). The
Associations will be required to submit copies of all consultants' reports to the Bank and prepare a
Project Completion Report within six months of Project completion.
H. Procurement
6.25  Table 6.5 summarizes the methods of procurement proposed to be used for the IBRD loan.
Details by Producer Association are given in Annex 6-9. As mentioned in para 6.5, procurement
arrangements are structured so as to be sufficiently flexible to deal with adjustments in the work
program during project implementation.
6.26 As shown in Table 6.5, the equipment and services to be financed by the Bank consist of the
normal items needed for well comipletions, repairs and workovers on any oil production rehabilitation
project. The purchased rigs, flowlines, casing, tubing, pumping and processing equipment, and some
chemicals (US$367 million or 73 % of the Bank loan) are available from a large number of potential
suppliers and will be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
6.27 Oilfield services (well logging, cementing, drilling, MWD and stimulation services) and some
of the chemicals are highly specialized and available from only a small number of qualified foreign
suppliers and contractors and will, therefore, be procured following Limited International Bidding
(LIB) procedures. As mentioned in para 6.18, an umbrella logistics/shipping contract may be used,
as in the First Oil Rehabilitation Project, to cover inspection, expediting and shipping services from
supplier to Project site. These services would also be bid using LIB procedures. An allowance of
US$2 million for each Association will be provided under the loan for miscellaneous equipment and
materials to be procured using international shopping procedures in cases where quick procurement
is necessary. The maximum size of any single contract using this method will be US$300,000 and
will be subject to prior Bank review. For specialized equipment or where only one qualWied supplier
exists, small contracts, valued at less than US$50,000, may be procured using direct contracting
procedures to an aggregate amount of US$1 million per Association and subject to prior Bank review
in each case.



38
Table 6.5: Su=mary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Goods and Services                    IBRD Financing           N.B.F. /1         Total
ICB           Othr                        Costs /2
t. Equipment & Materialsl
1.1 Workover /Drilling Rigs                       58                                            58|
1.2 Well Materials                                53                                            53
1.3 Infrastructure                                63              -              -              63
1.4 Pumping Equipment                             97              -              -              97
1.5 Processing Equipment                         32               -              -              32
1.6 Environmental Equipment                       12              -                             12
1.7 Support Equipment                             26              -                             26
1.8 Miscellaneous Equipment                       17              9              -              26
Total Equipment and Materials                     358               9             -             367
2. Commodities
2.1 Drill Bits                                     9               -                             9
2.1 Chemicals                                      3               3             -                   |
3. Services
3.1 Well Services                                                 26             -              26
3.2 Rig Services                                                  65                            65
3.3 Pipe Laying Services                                           5                             5
4. Consulting
4.1 Field Opdmizadon TA                                            8                             8
4.2 Implementation TA                                             15             -              15
5. Local Costs
5.1 Labor/Construction                             ..                           24              24
5.2 Infrastructure                                                -             60              60
5.3 Eng. & Management                                                            4               4
6. Import Duties (15%)                                                -            53              53
7. Inerest During Constr. & Fees                                      -            38               38
8. Total                                            370             130            178            678
I/ nN.B.F.' means 'Not Bank financed'. The amounts shown in the N.B.F. column inchlude US$178 million from the Prducer
Associations. The medtods of procuement in the IOther' column include LIB (US$99 million). intemational shopping (US$6), direct
contractng (US$3) and selection of consultants (US$23 milion) according to the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
2/ Numbers may not add due to runding.



39
6.28  A Country Procurement Assessment report for Russia has been initiated but not finalized.
Use of local procurement procedures will be limited to the procurement of: minor oilfield equipment
and services; rig crews; flow line crews; and local services. For these activities, which the Bank will
not finance, local procedures are considered acceptable.
6.29 Any interested supplier from Russia or one of the former Soviet Republics will be allowed
to bid on the ICB packages but only a limited number of manufacturers exist (particularly in Russia)
which are API-certified or equivalent and therefore qualified to supply equipment to the required
standard. Nevertheless, the bidding documents for lCB procurement will include the Bank's standard
domestic preference provisions for the procurement of goods so that any eligible and qualified
Russian manufacturer will be allowed to benefit from the preference, should they bid. This would
include Russian/international joint ventures which meet domestic value added requirements. During
the first year of implementation of the First Oil Rehabilitation Project, a few contracts were awarded
to Russian bidders. The Bank is currently preparing a technical assistance project to enhance the
international competitiveness of Russian oil equipment manufacturers and will hold seminars to
introduce them to Project-related bidding opportunities.
6.30  Procurement for the Project will be handled separately by each Producer Association. Since
the Associations have only limited direct experience in the procurement of imported equipment and
services, (having been permitted by the Government to enter into such transactions for the first time
in early 1992), consultant procurement specialists will be assigned to the Project Implementation Unit
in each Association to assist the Association to carry out its procurement responsibilities under the
loan efficiently (para 6.20). Termis of Reference for the Technical and Procurement Specialists are
given in Annex 6-7. Execution o- the services is expected to start by August 1994. The experts will
be selected according to the l,ank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. In addition, the
Associations have contracted v h Moscow based consulting firms to provide procurement assistance
and liaison and communicatiu . with the bidding community and the Bank as was done successfully
under the First Oil Rehabilitation Project. All terms of reference will be subject to prior Bank review
and all letters of invitation, evaluation reports and final contracts related to Bank funded consultant
contracts in excess of US$50,000 will be subject to prior Bank review.
6.31  Approximately 50 bidding documents will be issued by each Producer Association in two
roughly equal tranches covering the two drilling seasons. All ICB and LIB invitations to bid, bidding
documents, proposals to award and final contracts will be subject to prior Bank review because of
the Producer Associations' lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures. To streamline the
review process and improve the quality of procurement in general, ICB Standard Bidding Documents
will be used. Specific bidding documents will be prepared and released prior to Effectiveness in
order to facilitate maximum equipment delivery during the 1994/95 drilling winter season.
6.32 The PIUs will be responsible for preparing initial procurement plans and thereafter, monthly
reports during early project implementation, updating the status of all required procurement actions.
These plans will contain a detailed list of all bidding documents to be issued, a schedule for
concluding each proposed contract giving the date when the draft will be ready for Bank review,
when bid documents will be released, the bid opening date, when the bid evaluation report will be
given to the Bank for its "no objection", when the contract is expected to be signed and when the
equipment will be delivered or the services performed. Estimated committed and final actual contract



40
cost information will also be included in these reports. Draft procurement plans have been
completed.
6.33   A General Procurenient Notice was published in early June of 1994 in Development Business
alerting potential bidders of procurement activities and the expected release of bidding documents.
I. Disbursement
6.34   The Bank's contribution to the proposed Project is expected to be employed in the following
manner: US$367 for equipment (rigs, flowlines, casing, tubing, pumping, processing and
environmental equipment); US$14 million for drill bits and chemicals; US$96 million for specialized
oilfield and pipeline services; and US$23 million for technical assistance to the Associations. The
Beneficiaries will finance interest charges and commitnent fees during Project implementation which
together amount to US$38 million on the Bank Loan. Disbursement categories and amounts are
sumnmarized in Table 6.6.
Table 6.6: Disbursement of the IBRD Loan
(US$ millions equivalent)
Category                                  Amount /1       Disbursement
1. Equipment and Materials /2                   367       100% of Expenditures /3
2. Comrnodities                                  14       100% of Expenditures /3
3. Services: Technical Oilfield                  96       100% of Expenditures
4. Technical Assistance: Consulting              20       100% of Expenditures
5. Project Preparation Advance                    3       100% of Expenditures
6. Total                                        500
Notes:
1/    Numbers may not add due to rounding.
2/    Including: rigs, linepipe, tubing, pumping, processing, environmental and miscellaneous equipment.
3/    100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 70% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally. If local bidders are successful, the Bank will finance local expenditures
as necessary.
6.35 The disbursement profile of the Bank's Loan is given in Table 6.7. The distribution over
the roughly two-year implementation period (spread over three Bank fiscal years) is uneven, with
60% of the Bank loan disbursed during the first year of implementation. This is because some of the
basic equipment such as rigs are required up-front to implement the Project.



41
Table 6.7: Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank Fiscal Year
(ending June 30)
Goods and Services                          1995       1996      1997     Total
1. Equipmnent & Materials                   210        158                367
2. Commodities                                5          9        .         14
3. Services                                  28         45       23        96
4. Technical Assistance                       6         11        6        23
5. Total:                                   248        223       29       500
Cumulative:                                 248        471       500
6.36 Funds from the Bank Loan may be withdrawn under standard World Bank procedures which
include reimbursement to the borrower of eligible expenditures prior to Effectiveness, direct payment
to suppliers! contractors/ consultants, and Special Commitments to cover letters of credit.
6.37   Project implementation is expected to start immediately following Effectiveness of the Bank
Loan, expected by the fourth quarter of 1994, and the Project should be completed by late 1996.
The closing date of the Loan will be July 1, 1997.
J. Technical Assistance
6.38 A technical assistance provision of US$23 million, allocated among the three participating
Producer Associations, is included under the proposed Project:
(a)    Technical, financial and procurement specialist support (US$12 million) for the
Project Implementation Units (paras 6.7-6.8 and 6.20-6.22);
(b)    Field re-development studies (US$8 million) at each of the three Associations to
provide consulting services, engineering and data upgrading for optimizing reservoir
management and field development for future operations; and
(c)    Environmental specialists (US$3 million) to support development of environmental
management capabilities including emergency response and pilot clean-up programs.
K. Environment
6.39 The Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment, OD 4.01, requires that large
mineral extraction projects (including oil and gas developments) are to be classified as Category A
projects. The OD requires the preparation and public disclosure of a draft Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) prior to project Appraisal.



42
6.40  In the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
has national responsibility for implementing the very comprehensive 1991 Environmental Protection
Law. Under this law, the Ministry implements "Expert Reviews" at State and local levels. These
occur after completion of an EIA report.
6.41  International and Russian environmental consultants assisted the Producer Associations to
prepare EIAs. These EIAs have built upon the work carried out under the First Oil Rehabilitation
Project. Consultations with local groups were held by the Associations in January, 1994. Draft
ElAs were submitted jointly to the Ministries of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
and Fuel and Power in early February 1994. Clearance by the Govermnent of Russia and Local
Enviromnental Authorities and submittal of the English language summary to the Bank occurred in
March 1994. The EIA was circulated to the Executive Directors of the Bank and to the Public
Information Center on March 17, 1994.
6.42  Despite a very well developed body of environmental protection legislation in Russia, there
has been, until recently, relatively little concern for the environmental impacts of oil development
and poor enforcement of this legislation. This has been due to a lack of financial support and access
to up-to-date equipment and services available internationally in the oil and gas industry, as well as
an overriding emphasis in the past on meeting gross production goals to support industrial
investment.
6.43  Historic oil and gas activities in Western Siberia have had a very serious impact on all aspects
of the regional ecology (land, forests, rivers, wetlands, groundwater, soil, air). Moreover, pollution
migrating from the region via waterways and atmospheric deposition pose serious problems for other
regions.
6.44  The wide-ranging environmental issues in the West Siberian oil sector cannot be fully
addressed under the proposed Project. The problems are immense and merit special consideration
over a longer term. The Bank is in the process of preparing several environment projects, including
one focusing primarily on the petroleum sector. The proposed Gas Injection Demonstration Project
would involve investment to support gas flaring reduction and environmentally sustainable oil field
development in a Western Siberian Producer Association. A second project, the proposed
Environment Management Project, will include training for local administrators to help strengthen
environmental management capabilities of administrations in Western Siberia in the areas of
assessment, permitting, monitoring and enforcement.
6.45 Environmental components of the Second Oil Rehabilitation Project will focus on mitigating
environmental effects of implementing the Project itself, improving the environmental management
capabilities in the Producer Associations and carrying out pilot cleanup programs, such as
bioremediation, to address past damage.  hnported oil production technology will permit
environmentally more benign practices than current practices, for instance, through the use of closed
containment for drilling fluids and biodegradable drilling muds. Moreover, a key component of the
Project, replacement of surface flowlines, will have marked beneficial effects on the environment as
discussed below. Since the proposed Project will not open "greenfield sites", it should not impose



43
additional environmental or social burdens on the roughly 125 indigenous people who are located
near the Project areas6.
6.46 The Project will help reduce environmental impacts, not only through rehabilitation and
modifications of existing oil and gas production operations but also through provision of
environmental cleanup and spill response equipment, analytical stationary and mobile laboratories,
and corrosion testing facilities for each Association. Furthermore, pilot programs in the areas of
remediation, revegetation and automation of flare systems will help provide the groundwork for
cleanup of past damages through detailed evaluations and tests of alternative methods for cleanup and
mitigation. The overall budget for the specific environmental component of the Project is US$15
million, roughly allocated equally among the three Associations.
6.47 Positive Impacts: Rehabilitation of oil gathering pipelines, which accounts for US$67 million
or roughly 12% of Project Cost, will reduce the risk of oil being spilled into aquatic and semi-aquatic
ecosystems, one of the major sources of environmental damage in the past. In each of the
Associations the gathering networks are prone to spills because the liquids being transported to the
separation units have a high water content and over time this water content has led to corrosion of
the pipelines. Average pipe life is as low as 3 to 5 years. Replacement of these leaking pipelines
with non-corrosive pipe will significantly benefit the environent. The proposed field optmization
studies will also help develop alternate strategies for field development which will reduce the need
for field infrastructure, thereby lessening the environmental impact.
6.48 Negative Impacts: The Project emphasizes rehabilitation of existing wells and well
workovers. Since these wells already have well pads in place with access roads, there will not be
any additional environmental burden from pad and access road construction. However, the new
wells in existing fields will require some additional well pad and access road construction. The well
pads and access roads are constructed from sand dredged from local rivers and lakes. This dredging
is very disruptive to aquatic organisms, from single cell species to salmonid fish. Moreover, while
the majority of associated gas in the project area is utilized7, as the Project will increase oil
production in the participating Producer Associations by approximately 15%, this will result in an
increase in flaring of associated natural gas of approximately 0.38 billion cubic meters per annum
(5% of regional emissions).
6.49   Mitigation and Implementation Plans: The completion of wells already drilled and workovers
will have minor adverse impacts if the Producer Associations implement better methods for
controlling drilling wastes and containing the initial flow of liquids from the worked over wells. The
Project will provide equipment to handle well pad wastes which can also be used for cleaning oil
spills from pipeline leaks. Careful selection of sand dredge areas for new well pads will minimize
negative impacts. The Project also provides for strengthening the environmental mitigation and
monitoring departments established under Russian law in each of the three Producer Associations.
6 Indigenous people living in close proximity of oil production activities of the Project are: 5 families in
Megionneftegas, 55 people in Tomskneft and 53 people in the Yugansineftegas areas.
7 Megionneftega% utilizes 87% of associated gas, in Yuganskneftegas 88% is utilized wbUie in Tomskneft 20% of
associated gas production is currendy utilized.



44
These departments will be strengthened through provision of the environmental equipment and
programs outlined above and through technical assistance for training, implementation of monitoring
systems, assistance in planning programs to safeguard the interests of national minorities in or near
Project areas, studies to address issues such as proper well abandonment and increased utilization
of associated gas and baseline data acquisition. A condition of Loan disbursement will be the release
of bid documents and Letters of Invitation for the environmental equipment and technical assistance
components of the project. Grant funding is being sought to carry out environmental management
training for the Associations in addition to the three participating in the First Oil Rehabilitaion
Project. In addition, an EU funded program is under consideration for strengthening the planning
and administrative capabilities of the regional environmental authorities and for establishing a
regional action plan for improving the conditions of national minorities. Annex 6-10 provides further
details on the environmental and social effects of the Project and the mitigation measures proposed
and background information on environmental conditions in West Siberia.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Justification and Benefits
7.1    The proposed Project consists of three main production components: (i) workover and
rehabilitation of idle oil wells; (ii) in-fill drilling of new wells in existing fields; and (iii) replacement
of critical surface gathering facilities and field pipeline infrastructure which has been experiencing
accelerating failure rates and subsequent oil spillage due to excessive corrosion. These components
were selected on the basis of their potential to make early contributions to the stabilization of oil
production in Western Siberia, increase sector revenues and thereby provide important support to
macro-economic recovery. As shown in Table 7.1 economic returns are high, with economic rates
of return gready exceeding 50% for each component and an overall benefit-cost ratio of over 2.0 at
a real discount rate of 15%. The high returns result from the low investment required to restore
shut-in production and the export opportnity value of incremental oil production. At its peak the
aggregate Project would provide 8.3 million tons per year (160,000 barrels per day) of incremental
production, representing a 2.5% increase in expected national output. The Project is designed to
have important demonstration effects which can be broadly replicated across Western Siberia.
Table 7.1: Summary of Project Economic Returns
MNG      TN      YNG      Total
Benefit-Cost Ratio
Well Workovers                2.4     2.1      2.4
New Wells in Existing Fields  2.6     2.6      2.3
Surface Pipe Replacement (km)  2.2    2.9
Aggregate B/C Ratio             2.5     2.3     2.4       2.4
Aggregate NPV ($ mdlions)      440      514     577     1,531



45
7.2    The primary benefit of the Project would be incremental oil production which has an
economic value at the wellhead of US$89 per ton. This value is based on forecast Russian export
prices of US$113 per ton (based on an international benchmark price of US$120 per ton) over the
life of the Project less transport costs estimated to total US$24 per ton (including pipeline, tanker
transport and port charges). No real oil price increases have been assumed for the base evaluations.
7.3    Project inputs are dominated by imported materials, equipment and services with foreign costs
representing just over 80% of total economic costs. Shortages exist for all oilfield inputs within
Russia and as such the economic cost of these inputs is represented by imports. The Producer
Associations do not have significant supplies of materials which could be utilized in the proposed
program. In addition, the recommendation to lower pumps will require heavier well tubing than is
currently available in Russia and will also necessitate the use of international workover rigs with
greater lifting capability than the standard 50 ton rigs available in Russia. Inadequate equipment and
materials for well cementing, perforation, stimulation and horizontal drilling will necessitate the use
of international service contractors, at least for initial wells. Local costs include rig labor, site and
road rehabilitation, power supply, some well services and engineering and management. While it
could be argued that the economic costs of some inputs, such as drilling labor and domestic pipeline
transport, are negligible due to idle capacity in the country, these factors have not been incorporated
into the economic evaluations, nor are they significant to the evaluations. The characteristics of
individual project components are discussed below and summarized in Table 7.2. Further details of
the economic analyses are provided in Annex 7-1.
Table 7.2: Summary of Project Component Costs and Benefits
MNG3 |     TN       YNG  |JTotal
Number of Operations                       l                  l
Well Workovers                        75      525       576,   1,176
New Wells in Existing Fields          76       11        40       127
Surface Pipe Replacement (km)        255      576         -      831
Capital Costs ('000 $/Operation)
Well Workovers                       240      220       220
New Wells in Existing Fields       1,600     1,240     1,680
Surface Pipe Replacement              80       80        80
Incremental Production (tpdlwel) /1
Wen Workovers                         16       11        15
New Wells in Existing Fields          84       75        63
Surface Pipe Replacement              2         4         3
Total Production (million tpa)         2.3      2.8        3.2      8.3
Benefit-Cost Ratio /2                  2.5       2.3      2.4       2.4
Not"s
1/ Production estimates include an allowance for potential abandonment of 10% of the wells.
2/ Benefit-Cost ratio based on $89 per ton value of oil at the wellead.



46
7.4    Workover, rehabilitation and completion of idle wells would generally involve installation
of heavier tubing to lower down-hole pumps, recompletion and well stimulation, which would restore
shut-in production and could increase well productivity by an estimated 50%. Capital costs per well
vary from US$150,000 to US$400,000 depending on the need for well services (such as stimulation),
the type of pump installed, and well depth. Operating costs are estimated to total US$18 per ton
(US$2.5 per barrel)8 excluding social welfare payments which equal 40%  of wages plus minor
workovers costing US$72,000 every two years.
B. Economic Sensitivity Analyses and Project Risks
7.5    Project economic returns are robust relative to variations of  25 % in key project parameters
including: capital costs, operating costs and production. Project components maintain strong
economic returns at border prices as low as US$11.5 per barrel. This is due to the high base level
of project returns. Nonetheless, a significant Project risk exists due to uncertainty about well
productivity. Historic well production records are uncertain and the candidate wells which will be
available at the time of implementation are partly unknown due to on-going workover programs in
the Producer Associations9. This risk is acceptable given the large number of potential wells for
rehabilitation (over 3000 in the three Associations) and can be managed through careful well
screening and review during Project implementation. Production irom rehabilitated wells could also
be less than expected due to the state of the reservoir or due to unforeseen downhole problems that
result in abandonment of the well. Allowance for this possibility is built into the evaluation of Project
economics. The development wells which will be drilled as horizontal wells face the upside potential
of much higher initial returns, but carry a technical risk of unsuccessful completion or high water
break through rates. The risk of improper drilling of horizontal wells will be managed through
contracting these services to specialized fuims and flexibility in program implementation. Annex 7-1
shows the sensitivity of economic returns to a broad range of potential oil prices and other
parameters over the project life.
VIII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Projected Profitability and Risks
8.1    Potential financial returns from the overall Project and individual components have been
assessed on a stand-alone basis to determine whether it is in the Association's financial interest to
undertake these investments. The atlity of the Associations to service the proposed loans on an
aggregate and stand-alone basis have also been examined. A real after-tax cost of capital for the
8/ Based on a late 1993 conversion of R 1200/US$.
9/ From 1,500 wells rehabilitated across Russia during 1993 approximately 4 million tons of oil was produced
during the first 9 months of the year. At this pace average productivity per well would be 10 to 20 tons per day
depending on the dming of rehabilitation. These rates of production would provide acceptable economic and financial
reurns for the proposed Project.



47
Producer Associations of 15% was assumedt0. While this return is lower than those required by
international oil companies for new field development in Western Siberia, it reflects the lower risks
associated with the proposed Project components. Project capital and operating costs are described
in Chapter VII (Economic Analysis), with further details provided in Annex 7-1.
8.2    Under current (May 1994) and forecast tax and sales conditions, the overall financial rate of
return for the project exceeds 40% and all components show acceptable fimancial returns as shown
in Table 8.1. The four key risks to Project viability are oil prices, both international and domestic,
well productivity, tax levels, and access to export markets. The overall Project is still viable at
international prices as low as US$98 per ton ($13.50 per barrel) throughout the project life although
a few components would not be viable. The Project can sustain productivity declines of 25 % from
expected levels and still exceed a 25% rate of return. At forecast oil prices of US$120 per ton
($16.50 per barrel), the overall Project could absorb an increase in taxes, although some components
would become non-viable. However, a combination of low oil prices and an increase in tax levels
would render the overall Project non-viable. While international prices are expected to fluctuate over
the medium term around US$120 per ton, it is near term prices which are critical to rehabilitation
projects such as this and there is a significant likelihood that oil prices remain soft for the next few
years. Thus the Project could not tolerate an increase in tax levels until such time as profitability is
assured due to improvements in conditions, such as higher oil prices.
Table 8.1: Sunmary of Project Financial Returns
.NG       TN       YNG        Total
Financial Rate of Return (%)
Well Workovers                   62%      40%        70%
New Wells in Existing Fields     45%      60%        30%
Surface Pipe Replacement (km)    20%      48%
Aggregate FIRR                     43%      44%       53%       47%
Aggregate NPV ($ millions)          $89      $91      $112      $292
8.3    A major financial problem faced by all Associations is payment arrears. Producers were
collectively owed 6.4 trillion roubles or US$3.5 billion by end Febmary 1994 which is equivalent
to approximately 30% of domestic sales revenues. This problem arises from a number of factors
including: setdement delays in the banking system which results in 2 to 6 month delays for payments;
a disincentive to pay under conditions of high inflation; financial difficulties of customers; and, until
recently, limited scope for suppliers to cutoff customers in arrear. These problems occur within
integrated oil companies as well as independents. The proposed Project is not immediately vulnerable
to this problem since it qualifies for export quotas. However, the overall fnancial performance of
IO/ Based on an assumed capital structure of 30% debt and 70% equity which is typical for upstream operations in
international oil companies. While financing of the proposed Project would be over 70% debt, overall leverage for the
PA's should not significantly exceed 30% in the fuAtre.



48
each of the Associations is currently severely constrained by these problems. Producers are now
authorized to cut-off supplies to delinquent customers, and, while this should sharply reduce arrears,
producers could face cash flow problems stemming from payment difficulties for the near term. In
other sectors of the econtomy the arrears problem largely disappeared once stringent payment
conditions were imposed. The Ministry of Fuel and Power has commissioned an international
accounting firm to examine the causes and potential solutions to the problem.
B. Financial Covenants
8.4   The key financial performance goals for the Producer Associations relate to cash flow. In
a period of rapid price changes cash flow management will be critical. The Producer Associations
must be concerned with liquidity and their ability to not only meet debt service obligations but also
to provide funds for on-going investments. Typically, a significant portion of investments in the
upstream oil sector are funded from internal cash generation or equity. This will be particularly
pronounced in Russia until the capital markets improve. The main financial performance covenant
proposed for the Second Oil Rehabilitation Loan is that the Producer Associations maintain a debt
service ratio of at least 1.5 (ratio of earnings before interest and depreciation less royalties, revenue
and profit taxes to total short and long term debt service obligations). A second covenant, related
to working capital, will require maintenance of a current ratio of no less than 1.25, including
restrictions to dividend payments and maintenance of average accounts receivable at 60 days of sales
and accounts payable at not greater than 75 days of cash expenses by fiscal year 1995.
8.5   Since the Producer Associations will operate in a market oriented industry, revenue or return
based financial performance covenants are not warranted. Sector policy reforms covering prices and
taxation, however, are critical in this respect.
3L. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM[MENDATIONS
9.1   The Government and the Producer Associations have made considerable progress on the
preparation of the Project for implementation and on sector reforms.
9.2   During Negotiations, the Producer Associations agreed to the following future actions with
respect to Project implementation: (i) maintenance of a 1.5 debt service ratio; (ii) maintenance of
acceptable levels of working capital; (iii) provision of montnly reports on procurement and Project
progress during the first year of implementation and quarterly thereafter; and (iv) annual submission
of audited Project accounts and financial statements.
9.3   Project actions which need to be taken prior to loan Effectiveness are submittal of subsidiary
loan agreements and legal opinions ratifying loan documentation.
9.4   There are two conditions of Disbursement for each Producer Association's part of the
Project; (i) release of Letters of Invitation and bid documents for the environmental management
portion of the Project; and (ii) appointment of financial auditors.



49
9.5   The Government submitted a Letter of Policy Intent to the Bank, June 8, 1994, in which it
records recent progress in a number of key policy areas, including the liberalization of oil exports,
the safeguarding of tax incentives and the development of legal and tax reform in the oil sector. The
letter also expresses the Government's intention to continue the practice of regular policy
consultations with the Bank, to introduce further reforms in critical areas such as oil transport
regulation and to complete ongoing legal reforms. The Government's letter is included in Annex
9-1.
9.6    Based on the above agreements, the above Project is suitable for an IBRI) Loan of US$500
million equivalent to the Russian Federation, for 17 years including a 5-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable rate for Currency Pool Loans.
EC3IV
June 1994



50
Amex 2-1
RUSSIA PRIMARY ENERGY SUPPLY
(Thousand TOE)
19285    1298     12_       198      1989     199L      191      1992       1993
OIL
Crude Oil Production   547,730  566,795  575.176  574,466  557,748  516,200  461,100  395,800    354,000
Crude Oil Imports       28,210   30,977   30,929   37,568   30,906    18,800   18,1OC    16,200       8,000
Crude Oil Exports     (245,697) (263,989) (272,984) (279.110) x260,153) (211,000) (180,000) (142,000)  (127,500
Oil Product Imports          0        0         0    3.291     1,379    5,820    5,875    4,600       6,000
Oil Product Exports     (55,340)  (55,787)  (56,320)  (59,878)  (50,438)  (78,000)  (74,000)  (49,000)   (36,500
Apparent Consumption /1  274,903  277,996  276.801   276,337  279,442  251,820  231,075  225,600    204,000
NATURAL. GAS
Production             373,769  406,904  440,361   477,124  498,169  518,218  520,098  505,576    488,529
Imports                 54,917   55,983   58,397   59,101    59,182   56,764   55,630   55,630       55,630
Exports                (134,684) (146,025) (163,567) (182,554) (198,410) (202,061) (198,823) (187,720)  (171,766
Apparent Consumption   294,002  316,862  335.191  353.671   358,941   372,921   376,905  373,486    372,393
HARD COAL
Production              108,035   111,512   113,420   115,964   113,759  109,138   94,467   90,242   80,857
Inports                 26,609   26,161   25,694   25.208   23,702   22,175    19,801    19,801      19,801
Exports                 (21,514)  (21,963)  (22,387)  (22,804)  (22,430)  (22,090)  (16,282)  (16,119)   (14,654
Apparent Consumption    113,130  115,710  116,727  118,368   115,031   109,223   97,986   93,924     86,004
RROWJN COAL
Production              59,530   61,438   62,413   64,448   59,996   58,194   55,332   52,857        47,360
Inports                      0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0          0
Exports                      0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0          0
Apparent Consumption    59,530   61,438   62,413   64,448   59,996   58,194   55,332   52,857        47,360
Nuclear                 25,878   27,416   31,377   32,862   33,384   30,830   29,289   28,703        27,531
Hydro/Geothermal        13,743   14,130   13,975    13,837   13,734   13,803    13,803    13,803     12,975
Inports                  2,778    2,786    2,485    2,795    2,907    2,924    2,984    2,984         2,805
Exports                 (2,571)  (2,881)  (3,173)  (3,130)  (3,371)  (3,388)  (3,354)   (2,683)    (2,683
Apparent Consumption    39,828   41,451   44,664   46,364   46,654   44,169   42,722   42,807        40,628
TOTAL PRIMARY
C SPTION       781,393  813,457  835,796  859,188  860,064  836,327  804,020  788,674    750,386
Percent Change                     4%        3X%      3%       0%       -3%      -4%       -2%        -5%
SHARE OF TOTAL XUPPLY
Oil                      35%      34%       33%      32%      32%       30%      29%      29%        27%
Natural Gas              38%      39%       40%      41%      42%       45%      47%      47%         50%
Coal                     22%      22%       21%      21%      20%       20%      19%       19%        18%
Other                     5%       5%        5%       5%       5%        5%       5%       5%         5%
1/ including losses and own use.
Source: Goskomstat and Planecon



ORGANIZATION OF RUSSIAN UPSTREAM OIL SECTOR
(DECREE 1403, NOVEMBER 17. 1992)
RUSSIAN G tVERNMENT
MINISTRY OF FUEL & POWER
1-'''I -         I                                                I              II
100%             100%                   100%                      45%            45%           45%
TRANSNEFT          TRANSNEFTEPRODUCT |                              U          SRT
I               l_1  _1   1~~~ 1                         'I_I     
38%                          51%                    51%                          38%         38%          38%
PRODUCING &
  YUGANSKNEFTEGAS k      REFINING
ASSOCIATIONS
MEGION           CRUDE TRANSPORT
ASSOCIATIONS
REFINING 
ASSOCIATIONS_
TOMSKNEFT
PRODUCING &
REFINING
ASSOCIATIONS
PRODUCT TRANSPORT
& DISTRIBUTION
OTHER OIL                                ASSOCIATIONS
ASSOCIATIONS
x
Note: -Figures den~ote shareholding                  1-
0 I



ORGAIZATION CIUW
OF THE FUEL AND ENERGY COMPLEX
MINISTEiR OF FUEL
AND ENERGY
FIRST DEPUTY MIMSISE                            FIRST DEPUTY MINISTE                               FIRST DEPI.TY M SIISE
(,s, SeCtor)                                    (Oil Sector)                          j               (Fu_.I)
DEPUTY MINISTER        DEPUTY MINISTER      DEPUTY MINISTER    DEPUTY MINISTER    DEPUTY MINISTER    DEPUTY 1iJU'STER      DEPUTY MINISTER
Fetoln Ecwc Ru linsl)   (Etaon J  F6*nce for      t ectuicky)                                           tUce"eF ad Q*40te    (Econko a Finene
,Elcrkky sad Cool)                                                                                  to e oa & Got)
ADMINISTRATIONS
Coal Industry                                                   & DEPARTMENTS
Onl Industry                                                                                      NINDEPE-NDENTu STATE ORGANIZATIONS
Oil Product Supply
Electric Powe                                                                                 Ugo'Rostil
Mecianical Cosisructlon for the Fuel                        ___________Rosneftegax
and Energy ComjiAex and Conversion                                                          Rasenerto
Rosenergostrol
Energy Resource Prqkervatimon andefeatto
Noa.Conventional Energy Soureces                                                            GxaiptO
Investment Polkcy and Capital Construction                                                    Rosnefteprodukt
Problems of the North                                                                         Association "Rlostopproin"
Day-to-Day Regulation                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Association of Business Coopertion for the Ptovhioin and
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS                            Replenilshment of Enegy Equipnwcnt "ENKOMt"
I)ay-to-Day Rcgulation               AFFILIATE~~D WIT'H                       foreign Economc Association 'ASFN'
AFFILIATE                    ~~~~~~~Scientific-Technical Association "Energpprogress'
__________________________________TIlE MINISTRY                                   Commetclil-indusitrIa Associadion for Energ Industrialsts
B"nchrAsoriaio for Materfal-Teckudcai Supply 'Energorynol'
______________________           Firm     'Energoproekt'
Russian Fuel and Energy Excl-inge
Oil Exchange 
I 1



53                                    Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 3
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OIL SECTOR REFORM
PROGRESS SNCE 06I930
REFORM               REFORM OBECTIVES                   AND FUTURE ACTIONS
A. Price              0 Substantial progress toward    0 Price levels have increased from 1/3 to
international parity.          near 60% world levels.
o Export liberalization will put further
upward pressure on domestic prices.
O Domestic Market              o Dismantlement of domestic allocations
Liberalization.                now substantially completed. Producers
may refuse sales on grounds of
non-payment.
O Profit ceiling limits on price formation
abandoned September 1993.
B. Trade              0 Increase oil export quotas   0 Crude oil exports to non-FSU increased
Liberalization      rapidly and ultimately          20% over the course of 1993 from 66
abolish them.                  million tons to 80 million tons.
o 1994 export targets to non-FSU
increased to 90 million tons.
o Quotas abolished effective July 1
by Decree #1007, May 23, 1994
0 Decrease and ultimately      0 1994 centralized exports target to non-
abolish centralized oil        FSU reduced to no more than 25
exports.                       million tons by Decree, March 1994.
a Centralized export agreements will not
be reviewed and should phase out by
end 1994.
*      Date of Board Approval of First Oil Rehabilitation Loan.



.S4                                   Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 3
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OIL SECTOR REFORM
PROGRESS SINCE 06/93*
REFORM              REFORM OBJECTIVES                  AND FUTURE ACTIONS
C. Crude Oil           0 Establish acceptable        0 Key principles of non-discriminatory
Transport             regulatory framnework.         economic tariffs and adequate rules for
access contained in draft legislation
now before Parliamnent.
0 Government has confirmed intent to put
new regulatory framework in place by
year-end 1994.
D. Taxation           0 Reduce statutory tax levels to  6 Price Regulation Fund (tax on price
provide adequate incentives.  increases) abandoned September 1993,
largely offset, however, by increased
rates of excise tax.
o Rates of Government take expressed
as a % of profit or operating margin
vary from 80% to 90% for flowing
production and 65% to 75% for new
production.
0 Government has confirmed intent to
maintain or deepen existing tax
incentives.
o Imple-aent promised tax     e Presidential Decree 497, May 19, 1994
incentives.                   restored export tax privileges and
provides acceptable procedures for their
implementation.
o Significant shift from      0 Existing revenue taxes (excise taxes
revenue to profit-based       and royalties) are set to show
taxation.                     sensitivity to profitability. Studies
to facilitate further moves to profit-
based taxation are planned.
0 Decree 2285, issued December 24,
1993, provides for fully acceptable
profit-based taxation for new
Production Sharing Contracts.
*      Date of Board Approval of First Oil Rehabilitation Loan.



55                                    Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 3
RUSSLAN FEDERATION
OIL SECTOR REFORM
PROGRESS SNCE 06I93*
REFORM               REFORtMomQ O      VS               AND FUTURE ACTIONS
* Reasonable assurances on tax   Decree 2285 of December 1993
stabilization.                 stabilizes fiscal terms for all
new Production Sharing Agreements.
o Simplify tax administration  a Government Resolution 320, April
to increase compliance.         14, 1994 converts percentage ad
valorem excise tax to an equivalent
ruble per ton tax.
E. Petroleum          0 Early completion of          0 Processing of legislative drafts
Legislation          acceptable and                 seriously disrupted by political
comprehensive legal and        events of September/October 1993
contractual framework for      and new Parliamentary elections,
oil operations.                December 1993.
a Draft Law on Oil and Gas submitted to
Parliament, April 1994. Additional
relevant legislation will be submitted
in the coming months. Drafts are well
advanced.
0 Presidential Decree 2285 issued
December 1993 outlining attractive
framework for oil operations
conducted under Production Sharing
Contracts. Enabling legislation/
regulations now being prepared.
a Comprehensive legal framework
targeted for end-1994 or early 1995.
*      Date of Board Approval of First Oil Rehabilitation Loan.



56
Annex 5-1
Page 1 of 4
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REIABILUTATTON PROJECT
LEGAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PARTICIPATING
JOINT STOCK COMPANIES
(PRODUCER ASSOCIATIONS)
I. MEGIONNEFTEGAS
A. Charter and Legal Structure
1.    Open joint-stock company "Megionneftegas" is a legal entity and was established in
accordance with Presidential Decrees N1403 and N721 of 11/17/92 and 7/1/92 respectively. The
Committee on State Property Management of the Tyumen Oblast was its founder. MNG's Charter
was adopted by the conference of the labor collective and registered with the Megion City Soviet on
April 1, 1993 and approved by the President of Rosneft, the Committee for State Property
Management of Tyumen Oblast and notarized by the State Notary of Tyumen Oblast. The Company
is a successor to the State Production Association "Megionneftegas" and may perform any business
activity other than those prohibited by law. The Charters of MNG's subunits were approved by
MNG's Director General at that time of registration.
2.    The annual Meeting of Shareholders is the supreme governing body and 50% of ordinary
shareholders constitute a quorum. Emergency meetings can be convened by the Director General.
The Company can be liquidated by decision of the Shareholders Meeting or by court decision.
3.    The Board of Directors consists of the Director General, a representative of the workers
collective, a representative of the local Soviet of Peoples Deputies and, while 40% of ordinary shares
are federal property, representatives of the Committee for State Property Management, the Ministry
of Fuel and Power, and the State Committee for Anti-Monopoly Policies and Promotion of New
Economic Structures, which vote at Shareholders Meetings in accordance with the federal property
block of shares. The Board adopts decisions on all issues relating to Company activities other than
those which are within exclusive jurisdiction of the Shareholders meeting.
4.    The Director General is an ex-officio Chairman of the Board of Directors. When the
Company was established the Director General was appointed by the Government of the Russian
Federation or a body authorized by it. The Director General conducts operative management of the
Company.
5.    The Management Board is an executive body of the Company, whose activities are governed
by a Statute approved by the Board of Directors. The Company is obligated to meet its commitments
in respect of resource mobilization in accordance with the law and approved mobilization plans,
which are considered as a State order pursuant to Presidential Decree N288 of 3/21/92. The
Company management is liable in accordance with the law for non-fulfillment of obligations and
tasks.



57
Annex 5-1
Page 2 of 4
6.    Lending agreements can be concluded only by MNG and have to be signed by the Director
General and Financial Director. MNG bears ultimate financial responsibility for all operations
conducted by its subunits although each subunit has its own balance sheet and current bank account.
The Audit commission manages and presents the annual financial audit report to the Board of
Directors.
7.    Since MNG's subunits are not independent legal entities, they are basically limited to
concluding service contracts with each other, with transfer prices regulated by the Association. Any
transactions with other entities must be authorized by the Producer Association.
8.    MNG has joint ventures with two foreign oil companies for well rehabilitation and possible
new field development.
B. Licenses
9.    Megionneftegas has been granted licenses, valid until December 2013, for the right to use
the subsoil in respect of oil and gas extraction in the oilfields comprising the Project, in different
rayons of the Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug of the Tyumenskaya Oblast.
H. TOMSKNEFT
A. Charter and Legal Structure
10.   Open joint-stock company "Tomskneft" (TN) is a legal entity and was established  in
accordance with Presidential Decrees N1403 and N721 of 11/17/92 and 7/1/92 respectively. The
Committee on State Property Management of Tomskaya Oblast was its founder. The TN Charter was
discussed in the conference of the Labor Collective and was approved by the Minister of Fuel and
Power on July 12, 1993. The Charters of subunits were approved by TN's Director General at that
time. The Charter has been registered by the Administration Head of the City of Strejevoi (location
of the Company), approved by the Committee for State Property Management of Tomskaya Oblast
and notarized by the State Notary of Tomskaya Oblast. The Company is a successor to the State
Production Association "Tomskneft" and may perform any business activity other than those
prohibited by law.
11.   The annual Meeting of Shareholders is the supreme governing body and 50% of ordinary
shareholders constitute a quorum. Emergency meetings can be convened by the Director General.
The Company can be liquidated by decision of the Shareholders Meeting or by court decision.
12.   The Board of Directors consists of the Director General, a representative of the workers
collective, trustee representatives and a representative of the local Soviet of Peoples Deputies. The
Board adopts decisions on all issues relating to Company activities other than those which are within
exclusive jurisdiction of the Shareholders meeting.
13.   The Director General is an ex-officio Chairman of the Board of Directors. When the



58
Annex 5-1
Page 3 of 4
Company was established the Director General was appointed by the Government of the Russian
Federation or a body authorized by it. The Director General conducts operative management of the
Company.
14.   The Management Board is an executive body of the Company, whose activities are governed
by a Statute approved by the Board of Directors and consists of directors of the largest production
units, mainly NGDUs. This body fulfills operational functions such as coordinating day-to-day
activities of all NGDUs, and works in close cooperation with the Director General. The Council of
Managers includes all directors and managers of subunits, the Chief Geologist, Chief Engineer and
other leading specialists of TN. The Council of Managers holds its sessions primarily for discussing
long-term business prospects. The Company is obligated to meet its commitments in respect of
resource mobilization in accordance with the law and approved mobilization plans, which are
considered as a State order pursuant to Presidential Decree N288 of 3/21/92. The Company
management is liable in accordance with the law for non-fulfillment of obligations and tasks.
15.   The Audit commission manages and presents the annual fmancial audit report to the Board
of Directors.
16.   At present, TN is involved in (or is considering) five projects with foreign companies:
(a)    a work-over contract with Oman Oil and Benton Oil; and
(b)   three joint ventures with Fracmaster.
B. Licenses
17.   Tomskneft has been granted licenses, valid until December 2013, for the right to use the
subsoil in respect of oil and gas extraction in the oilfields comprising the Project, in different rayons
of Tomskaya Oblast and Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug of the Tyumenskaya Oblast.
Im. YUGANSKNEFTEGAS
A. Charter and Legal Structure
18.   The Charter of Yuganskneftegas is basically identical to those of "Megionneftegas" and
"Tomskneft", descnbed above, with the following differences:
(a)   the joint-stock oil company "YUKOS" was the founder of the Company;
(b)   the Company is a successor to "Yuganskneftegas" Production Association;
(c)    during the period when "YUKOS" owns 38% of shares, the annual Shareholder
Meeting is not valid unless a YUKOS representative is present; and



59
Annex 5-1
Page 4 of 4
(d)   the Board of Directors consists of the Director General, a "YUKOS" representative,
a representative of the workers collective and, while 38% of ordinary shares are
federal property, representatives of the Committee for State Property Management,
the Ministry of Fuel and Power, and the State Committee for Anti-Monopoly Policies
and Promotion of New Economic Structures.
19.   The Charter of Yuganskneftegas has been approved by the "YUKOS" Board of Directors,
the Committee for State Property Management of the Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug and is
registered with the Administration of Nefteyugansk rayon and notarized.
20.   YNG has two joint ventures with Fracmaster to carry out rehabilitation operations and has
been granted the right to negotiate with Amoco and Shell for development of two large new oilfields.
B. Licenses
21.   Yuganskneftegas has been granted licenses, valid until December 2013, for the right to use
the subsoil in respect of oil and gas extraction in the oilfields comprising the Project, in different
rayons of the Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug of the Tyumenskaya Oblast.



60
Amiex 5-2
Page 1 of 9
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURES OF THE JOINT STOCK COMPA
(PRODUCER ASSOCIATIONS)
I. MEGIONNEFTEGAS
A. Organizational and Management Structure
1. The General Director
2. Director of Drilling
(a) Drilling Administration
(b) Derrick Construction and Drilling Rig Administration
(c) Drilling Cementation Department
(d) Specialized Construction Administration
3. Director of Technical Supplv
(a) Deputy Director of Technical Supply
(b) Division of General Supply and Central Warehouse
(c) Transport Division and Car Service Shop
(d) Airport
(e) Technical Land Transport #1
(f) Technical Land Transport #2
(g) Road Construction and Repair Administration
(h) Mechanized Works Administration
(i) Transportation Venture for Drilling Teams
4. Director of Commerce
(a) Division of Security
(b) Commerce Enterprise
5. Director of Maior Constucion
(a) Production and Technical Projects Planning Division
(b) Oil Construction Department
(c) Completion Equipment Department
(d) Construction Development Group
(e) Major Building Repairs and Construction Shop



61
Amn 52
Page 2 of 9
(f) Bureau of Construction Department
(g) Bureau of Project Finance
(h) Construction Venture in Krasnadarskykray Administration
(i) Electrical Equipment Construction and Installation Administration
6. Director of Agriculture Industrial Complex
(a) Agriculture Department
(b) Agriculture and Farm Enterprise
(c) Association in Golyshmanovo
7. Director of Personnel and Social Development (Pensions and Housing)
(a) Sports Complex Director
(b) Social Development Department
(c) Personnel Department
(d) Chief of Public Relations and Press Center
(e) General Operations Maintenance and Repairs
(f) Drink Shop
(g) Production and Sale Enterprise
(h) Megion City Service and Repair
(i) Medical Center
O) Orientation and Training Center
(k) Self Financing Contract Center
8. Chief of Public Relations and Press Center
9. Leeal Department
10. External Relations DeDartment
11. Enterprise "Oil Service'
12. Technical Director. 1st Deputy Director
(a) Central Engineering Technology Service
(b) Administration of Exploration of Oil and Gas
(i) Oil and Gas Extraction Shop #1,2,3,4,5,6,7
(ii) Well Refurbishment Shop (minor repair)
(iii) Well Work-Over Shop
(iv) Enhanced Recovery and Well Work-Over
(v) Preparation of Oil Well Refurbishment
(vi) Logistics Support Unit for Electrical Submersible Pumps
(c) Sales Department for Oil Products



62
Annex ,5-2
Page 3 of 9
(d) Department of Chief Mechanic
(i) Pipeline Equipment and Accident Remediation
(ii) Maintenance Service Facility
(e) Chief Energy Specialist
(i) Power Supply Center
(f) Department of Automation and Production
(i) Remote Control and Production Automation Shop
(ii) Telecommunication Shop
(g) Department of Environment
(h) Computer Center
(i) Department of Safety and Accident Prevention
(j) Oil Processing/Treatment and Gas Production
(i) Processing/Treatment and Pumping Facility #1
(ii) Processing/Treatment and Pumping Facility #2
(iii) Gas Shop
13. Controller
(a) Accounting Department
14. Financial Director
(a) Economic Planning Department
(b) Labor and Salary Department
(c) Finance Department
15. Director of Geology
(a) Investments and Control of Property Department
(b) Field Geologists
(c) Geology Specialist
(d) Geology Department
(e) Oil Field Development Department
(f) Hydrodynanucs and Reservoir Development Laboratory
16. Assistant to the General Director on Administrative Issues
(a) Copy Room
(b) Administrative Front Office
17. Assistant to the General Director on Economy



63
Amewx 5-2
Page 4 of 9
II. TOMSKNEFr
A. Organizational Structure of Tonskneft
1.    General Operating Units
(a)    Department of production, technical supply and equipment delivery;
(b)   Department of gas recovery and utilization;
(c)    Department of technological transport for drilling operations;
(d)   Specialized Department #1: Construction material preparation;
(e)    Specialized Department #2: Geological and geophysical data preparation;
(f)    Construction and assembling enterprise of "Tomskneftestroy";
(g)   Oil industry research and design Institute "TomskNIPIneft";
(h)   Kedrovsk Department of Technological Transport; and
(i)    Moscow representative office
2.    Central Support Units
(a)    Road Construction Department;
(b)   Capital construction department;
(c)    Engineering construction department;
(d)   Trust "Strezhevoyspetsneftstroy" (specialized construction of oil facilities);
(e)    Rig assembling department;
(t)    Plugging department;
(g).   Central base for renting and maintenance of drilling equipment;
(h)   Department of technological transport, specialized machinery and highways;
(i)    River ship company;
(j)    Clusters' information and computer center;
(k)   "Aviatransneft" Enterprise;
(I)   Information and publishing center; and
(m)   Trade and production supply center
3.    Social Units
(a)    Training center;
(b)   State farm "Strezhevoyspetsneftstroy";
(c)    Tourist base "Neftyanik" (the "Oilman"); and
(d)   Hotel complex "Kedr" ("Cedar")
4.    Field Production Units
Strezhevoyneft
(a)   Oil and Gas Production Department "Strezhevoyneft";



64
Annex 5-2
Page 5 of 9
(b)   Strezhevskoy Departnent of enhanced oil recovery and well work-over;
(c)   Strezhevskoy Drilling Department;
(d)   Strezhevskoy Department of Technological Transport #1;
(e)    Strezhevskoy Department of Technological Transport #2;
(f)   Strezhevoy assembling and setting-up department; and
(g)   Strezhevoy specialized construction departnent
Vakhmeft
(a)    Oil and Gas Production Department; and
(b)   Department of Technological Transport
Vasuganneft
(a)    Oil and Gas Production Department;
(b)   Drilling Department; and
(c)    Department of Technological Transport
flgolneft
(a)   Oil and Gas Production Department
Luginetskenft
(a)   Oil and Gas Production Department
B. Magnaement Structure of Tomskneft
1.   TThe Director General
2.    Production Management Block - headed by the Chief Engineer
(a)   Engineering/Producton Department (headed by the First Deputy GM-Production)
(i)    Oil and Gas Production Departments (NGDU);
(ii)   Enhanced Recovery and Wells' Work-Over Department;
(iii)  Information and Computer Center;
(iv)   Assembling and Setting-up Department;
(v)   Central Base for Production Services;
(vi)   Tomsk Research and Design Institute; and
(vii)  Communication Department
(b)   Geology Department
3.    Commercial and Financial Block - headed by the First DeMutv GM - Commercial
(a)   Commercial Department - headed by the Deputy General Manager of Economics
(i)   Procurement Department; and



65
Annex 5-2-
Page 6 of 9
(ii)   Finance and economic activities of all independent structural Departnents
(b)   Accounting Department - headed by the Chief Accountant
4.    Personnel and Social Development Block - headed bv Deguty GM - Social
(a)   Pre-school Children Institutions Department;
(b)   Hotel Complex Department;
(c)   Cultural Center "Neftyanik" ("The Oilman");
(d)   Training Centre;
(e)   Tourist Base "Neftyanik";
(f)    Construction and Renovation Department;
(g)   Trade and Production Supply Association for Workers;
(h)   State Collective Farm "Strezhevoskoy";
(i)   Subsidiary Farm "Voskhod"; and
(j)   Istrimnsk Departnent of Engineering Constructions
5.    General Matters Block - headed by Deputy GM - Support
(a)   Road Construction Enterprise;
(b)   Technological Transport Departments;
(c)   "Aviatransneft" Department;
(d)   Maintenance and Operations for River Fleet; and
(e)   Production and Technical Supply and Delivery Departnent
6.     Production and Exploration Drilling Block - headed by Deputv GM - Drilin,
(a)   "Tomskburneft" Department;
(b)   Technological Transport for Drilling Equipment Departnent;
(c)   Rig Assembling Department, and
(d)   Plugginj Department
7.    CaRital Construction Management Block - headed by DeMut= GM - Construction
(a) "Tomskneftestroy" Department



66
Amsex 5-2
Page 7 of 9
III. YUGANSKNEFTEGAS
A. Organizational Structure of Yuganskneftegas
1.    General Operating Units
(a)    Oil and Gas Production Department;
(b)   Surface Administration for Newly developed oil and gas fields;
(c)   Department of drilling No. 1;
(d)   Departnent of drilling No. 2;
(e)   Department of exploratory drilling;
(f)    Central production service base for drilling equipment;
(g)   Department No. 1 of enhanced reservoir recovery;
(h)   Department No. 2 of enhanced reservoir recovery;
(i)    Department of wells' production itensification "Inrasf';
(j)    Rigging up Department;
(k)   Plugging Department;
(1)    Department of technological transport No. 1;
(m)   Department of technological transport No. 2;
(n)   Department of technological transport No. 3;
(o)   Department of technological transport No. 4;
(p)   Central Base for renting and reconditioning of the oil field equipment;
(q)   Central Base for renting specialized machinery and rig equipment;
(r)    Central Base for on setting up and maintenance of power generating equipment;
(s)    Central Base for production services of automation units;
(t)    Department of electrical circuits and electrical equipment operation;
(u)   Chemical engineering operations "Yuganskneftepromchim"; AND
(v)   Electrical motors repair plant;
2.    Central Support Units
(a)   "Yuganskneftepromchim" Special Construction;
(b)   "Yuganskneftepromchim" Road construction;
(c)   "Yuganskneftepromchim" Renovation and construction;
(d)   "Yuganskneftepromchim" Construction;
(e)   Geophysical Department;
(f)    Engineering Center "Western Siberia";
(g)   Department of production and technical supply;
(h)   Construction and Mounting Departnent No. 2;
(i)    Department of technological transport No. 5;
(j)    Department "Yugansktorf" (Peat);
(k)   Ostrovanaya (Island) Base for technical services and equipment supply;
(1)    Nefteyugansk Central base for oilfield equipment and construction work-over;



67
A_nex 5-2
Page 8 of 9
(m)   Construction Management Department (pipe anticorrosion plant construction);
(n)   Departnent of heat and water supply;
(o)   Specialized enterprise for drilling and explosion operations;
(p)   Automatic control systems maintenance Departnent "YuganskASUneft";
(q)   Avia-transportation Departnent;
(r)    Normative research station;
3.    Social Units
(a)    Nefteyugansk Trading center;
(b)   Trading Company "Temp";
(c)   Department of social and communal supply;
(d)   State farm "Neftevugansky";
(e)    State farm "Singapaisky";
(f)    State farm 'Cheuskinskoye";
(g)   Poultry Farm;
(h)   Nefteyugansk green house enterprise;
(i)    Brewery;
(j)   Joint squadron of militarized guards;
(k)   Sports and recreation center 'Ob";
(1)    Health center "Yugan";
(m)   Small production and research enterprise "Electrum";
(n)   Cultural center 'Yugan";
(o)   Daily public and political news-paper "Za Yuganskuyuneft" (For Yugansk Oil);
(p)   Information and commercial TV center 'Intelcom";
(q)   Center of non-traditional medicine, adaptation and preventive medicine;
(r)   Industrial technical school;
(s)    Training center; and
(t)    Complex design Department
4.    Field Production Units
Mamontova
(a)   Oil and gas production Department "Mamontovaneft";
(b)   Oil and gas production Department 'Maiskneft";
(c)   Mamontov central base for renting and maintenance of oil field equipment;
(d)   Mamontov Deparment of enhanced reservoir recovery and wells' workover No. 1;
(e)   Mamontov Department of enhanced reservoir recovery and weLls workover No. 2;
(f)    Mamontov Department of electrical circuits and electrical equipment operation;
(g)   Mamontov Department of technological transport No. 1;
(h)   Mamontov Department of technological transport No. 2;
(i)    Mamontov Department of technological transport No. 3;
U)    Maiskoye Department of technological tramsport;
(k)   Mamontov Department of drilling operations;



68
Annex 5-2
Page 9 of 9
(1)    Mamontov Plugging Department;
(m)   Mamontov base of production and technical services and equipment supply;
(n)   Mamontov Central piping base;
(o)   Mamontov central base production services for rigging-up operations;
(p)   Mamontov department of water supply;
(q)   Construction department No. 4;
(r)    Mamontov departnent of social and communal supply,
(s)    Trading company "Neftyanik"(Oilman); and
(t)    Farmers' cooperative "Siberia"
Poikovskoye
(a)    Oil and gas production department "Pravdinskneftn;
(b)   Salym Department of drilling operations;
(c)    Salym Rigging-up Department;
(d)   Salym Department of electrical circuits and electrical equipment operation;
(e)    Poikovskoye Department of technological transport No. 1;
(f)    Poikovskoye Department of technological transport No. 2;
(g)   Trading company 'Pravdinka";
(h)   Poikovskoye department of social and communal supply;
(i)    Ural Regional representative office;
(j)    Agricultural firm "Turinskayan;
(k)   Implementation research and engineering center "Neftegaztechnologia";
(1)    Boarding house "Guta";
(m)   Construction department No. 3 "Yugan";
(n)   Management of facilities under construction in Anapa;
(o)   Construction department No. 1 'Anapskoye";
(p)   Family sanatorium "Lastochka" (Swallow);
(q)   Representative office in Kurgan;
(r)    Representative office in Omsk;
(s)   State farm "Roshinsky";
(t)    Construction departnent No. 3 "Ymapskoye;



69
An=5-3
Page 1 of 6
FINANCLAL STATUS OF PRODUCE ASSOCIATIONS
Balance Sheet                            MEGIONNEFrEGAS
tlMiDion Rubies)
I Million RColede   -      1991      992   1993        C1de                  _991                 9  93
-Coe                                  _____C de19 1-                                                 i
I . Fixed Assets                                            1. Capital
12 Non-Material NFA                                1       400 Charter Capital          1,504    6,610      6,610
20 Fixed Assets GFA          2,191   65,453  117,967       410 Resources
21 Accuml Depreciation         843   26,708   31,310       420 Special Funds              211   97,651    255,766
22 Fixed Asses NFA           1,348   38,745   86,658       430 Earmarked Finacial                  502        502
30 Equipment CWIP               18    1,506    2,777       440 Other
40 hIvesunentCWIP              165    5,451   34,128       450 Other
50 Long Term lnvestment        29    7,474   25,838        460 Other
60 Settlement of Founders                                  470 Profit in Current Year                      17,617
70 Other Non-Current Asset                                 471 Profit Distributed                          17,617
80 Total Fixed Assets I      1,560   53,176  149,401       472 Profit Not Distributed       Q                  Q Q
480 Total Capital            1,716  104,763   262,879
II. Current Assets
100 Suppliers/Stocks            55    2,324   10,926            H. Current Liablties
110 Catte                        4       34      223        520 Total LT Loans               9      605      1,486
120 Low Value Assets            11      221    1,126        600 Short Term Bank Loas       42    4,363       7,978
130 Uncompleted Constr.           1    3,801   15,368       610 Bank Loans to Persons       0         0
140 Advances                     0        15     292        620 Short Term Loans
150 Production                   3      583    1,615        630 Trade Payables             97    9,181      72,548
162 Materals                   126    5,324   33,402        640 Outstanding Bills
170 Trade Costs Coods            0      468    1,851        650 Wages Payable              37       685      3,550
175 Other                              1,308    4,372       660 Social Insur Welf1re       29       552     4,946
176 Other                                                   670 Prop. & Personal Insur.               8        54
180 Total Current Assets 1I    202   14,078   69,175        680 Other                                           0
690 Non-Budgetary              15    9,903    38,879
I m. Settlements                                        700 Budget                      20   12,476    57,303
200 Receivables                 154   28,477  157,017       710 Otber Creditors             54    3,812      9,925
210 Bils Receiveable                                0       720 Advances from Cust.                             0
220 With Affiliates                                 0       730 Advance Paymets                  18,062    32,610
230 to Budget/State              49       32      172       740 Advance Payments            23      510      1,694
240 to Personnel                  0        2    1,937       750 Bad Debt Allowance
250 Other Debtors                12   40,397   27,014       760 Other Short Term           19Q      217
260 Advances to Suppliers         3      344       12       770 Total                      466   60,374   230,974
270 Short Term Investment              1,940    3,682
280 Casb                          0       97    2,189       780 BALANCE LLAB.            2,182  165,137   493,852
290 Current Account              44    1,048      307 l          errors                 0.00%   -0.00%      0.00%
300 Foreig Exchange              2   22,494   63,160
310 Other Liquid Assets         114    3,053   12,869           Ratdo                     1991     12         1993
320 Other Current Assets        42        Q 0       a
| 330 TotalM                      421   97,883  268,359           Current Ratio             1.33      1.85      1.46
CA/CL                     1.67     2.67       1.43
340 Lass from Previous Year                                     CA/FA                     0.40     2.11       2.26
| 350 Loss from Current Year                      6,918           Debt ($ million)            $2      $22         $8
______________________ ______  .__.__  Debt Service Ratio (Ull)    0.00  5.18  1.22
[360 BALANCE ASSETS                    165.137  493852            A/R as % of Sales                  14%        34%



70
Page 2 of 6
Profit and Loss       MEGIONNEFTEGAS                        Unit Costs (Rubles/ton)
(Million Rublesl
Code                       [   19911            1993      __                           1i Code  -  .   __   992   1993
Profit and Loss       I             1 9             I        Production (min tons)    16.01    14.6       13.5
10 Gross Sales Revenues (ca 4h)      60,328  266,6801  I    10 Avg Domestic Price            1  4,490    28,428
15 VAT                   i            7,546  39,920!!       15 VATpercent                         13%       15%
20 ExciseTiax                     I  2,4171  16,849!     20 Excise percent                         5%        7%
30 OdLer(MnclPRF)        |            3,2081  13,27511      30 Other percent                       5%        5%
40 Production Costs                  35711! 213 409.; ij   40 Avg. Proda Cost                    2.44      5.808
50 Sales Gross Margin           0   11,446! (16,773;j       50 Avg. Gross Margin                   785     (1,242
60 Other Net Sales                I   1,8201    (4781i
70 Non-Sales Transactions            12,4501 28,816S   |       Selling Price in $/ton            $20.0      $23.7
71 incl Securities and IV                         2611         Prodn Cost in $/ton               $10.9      $13.2
72 incl Local Taxes                           30,39911
80 Total Income                 0   61t428  224974
90 Balance Profit/Loss          0j  25,716   11,565i,   90 UnitProfit                            1,763       857
92 Investme  Deductions         0    4,256  101,1781  ii       in $/ton                           S7.8       $0.7
94 Profit Tax                  0   6,867  (28,676'I
92 Net Income                   0   18,849   40,241ij   92 Unit Net Income                   I   1,292      2,981
100 Excess Labour Costs    -           17                       Avg. Exchange Rate         25  _  225       2
Profit Distribution          Q   25i935   17618   i         Production Costs ($/ton I
200 Budget                             7,459    9,1071
94 incl Profit Tax              0    6,867  (28,676j            Base Production Cost *   $0.0    $10.9      $13.2
96 mcl Other (PRF, Royalty)     0    3,208   13,275             Addn. Labour Costs       $0.0     $1.3       $0.0
101 incl Turnover                                               Addn. Other Costs         SQu SSu
150 incl Excess Labour Tax         i                            Total Prodn. Cost         $0.0    $12.1      $13.2
i Rl~esora~  I                (% increase)                                 9%
210 Reserves for Insurance
220 Savings/lnvestment Fund           14,160                     incl Investment Fund ddtions
230 Consumption Labour                 4,116      459
250 Charity
260 Other                                200    8,052
270 Rent/Lease on Land
Budget (Cash)                 O   1%U16  17482              Tax Exemptions               0    42i6   101-178
300 Property Tax                          69      741       500 Reconstruction Invest.            3,613    93,772
310 Profit Tax                         1,476    9,048       520 Eavironmental Protec.
340 Royalties and Pollution            3,424   35,242       530 Health Care Invest.                 643      7,406
350 Land Tax                               8      44        540 Charity NGO's
355 VAT                                7,562   29,441       550 Other
356 Excise Tax                         1,156    3,072       560 Other                  -
360 Export Duties                      1,390    1,489
365 Import Duties
380 Personal Tax                        724    4,620
386 Other                              3,262   15,711
390 Fines                                ,46 L8052



71
Annm   -3
Page 3 of 6
FINANCIAL STATUS OF PRODUCER ASSOCIATIONS
Balance Sheet                            TOMSKNEGAS
C-de (Million Rubles)           1991     1992 1993Q3I  [Code                         F   1991f_    993Q3
1. Fixed Assets                                            1 .Capital
12 Non-Material NFA                       2        4   i 400 Charter Capital          3,197    3,609      5,629
20 Fixed Assets GFA          3,915   91,388  116,9281 i 410 Resources
21 Accum. Depreciation       1,223   38,302   44,2441  420 Special Funds                  9   62,990    118,389
22 Fixed Assets NFA          2,692   53,087   72,684 1    430 Eannarked Financial       162    4,521      14,747
30 Equipment CWIP               26      557    1,046      440 Other
40 Investment CWIP             561   14,099   55,972      450 Other
50 Long Term Investment         37      560   12,609   I 460 Other
60 Settlement of Founders                          0      470 Profit in Current Year            8,737     2,448
70 OdLer Non-Current Asset       Q        0        0      471 Profit Distnbuted                 8,243     1,119
80 Total Fixed Assets I      3,315   68,305  142,315   i 472 Profit Not Distributed       Q      494      t.322
.    480 Total Capital         3,369   71,614    140,094
II. Current Assets
100 Suppliers/Stocks            54       756    8,720 I        11. Current Liabilities
110 Cattle                       7        59      5141  I 520 Total LT Loans               8        7        401
120 Low Value Assets             10       86      5161    600 Short Term Bank Loans      233    5,056     13,382
130 Uncompleted Constr.          0         4      7991     610 Bank Loans to Persons       1        12        34
140 Advances                     0         0       37      620 ShortTermrLoans            53        12       III
150 Production                  45       174    1,503      630 Trade Payables             65   16,860   136,141
162 Materials                  111    1,188   15,077       640 Outstanding Bills
170 Trade Costs Goods                    311      507      650 Wages Payable              33      373      3,447
175 Other                                       1,940      660 Social Insur Welfae         9      581      6,938
176 Other                                         3        670 Prop. & Personal Insur.             23         17
180 Total Current Assets II    227    2,578   29.940       680 Other
690 Non-Budgetary               3    1,327      7,596
m. Settlements                                         700 Budget                     23    7,603    46,770
200 Receivables                  72   27,995  136,228   I 710 Other Creditors             60    1,495      4,391
210 Bills Receiveable                                      720 Advances from Cust.       154       655       193
220 With Affiliates                                        730 Advance Payments                    614     1,603
230 to Budget/State             162      688    2,297      740 Advance Payments            2        30       200
240 to Personnel                  1       19      250      750 Bad Debt Allowance                             10
250 Other Debtors                51      414   11,387      760 Other Short Term           31       22          Q
260 Advances to Suppliers        19      236    1,828      770 Total                     680   34,674   221,233
270 Short Term Investment        31       27       63
280 Cash                          1      114      548   I 780 BALANCE LIAB.            4,049  106,288   361,327
290 Current Account              38       47    1,681   [      errors              I  0.00%    0.00%      0.00%
300 Foreign Excbange              6    4,698   17,868                                        _
310 Other Liquid Assets         123      683    3,590          Ratios                   1991      1992    1993||
320 Other Current Assets
330 Total m                    502   34,920  175,738           Current Ratio            1.07      1.08      0.93
CA/CL                    2.61      1.24      0.86
340 Loss from Previous Year      5                             CA/FA                    0.22      0.55      1.45
350 Loss from Current Year               485   13,333          Debt (S million)          $12      $23        $12
i _________________  _ _  _Debt Service Ratio (full)    0.00  1.31  -0.31
360 BALANCE ASSETSR           4,049  106.287   361.325 ] |i    A/R as % of Sales                 21%,       27%



72
Page 4 of 6
Profit and Loss        TOMSKNBFTEGAS                       Unit Costs (Rubleslton)
(Million Rubles)
'JCode                          1991      1992 1993Q3      Code                   _1991             19921993Q3
Profit and Loss                f                  i         Production (mln tons)     14.0     12.2|       8.2
10 Gross Sales Revenues (ca h)       35,821  124,616'!    10 Avg Domestic Pricc              1   4,686    29,394
15 VAT                                6,4481 20,545i       15 VAT percent                         18 9      16%
20 Excise Tax                          1,4691   6,208      20 Excise percent                       5%,        6%
30 Other Ctncl PRF)               |   4,1861      76       30 Other percent                       129o       0%
40 Producton Costs                  I1.7.03Q  108&,93 1  40 Avg. Prodn Cost                   I  M91    13.29
SO Sales Gross Margin             I   6,6891 (10,907;     50 Avg. Gross Margin                    5461   (1,334
60 Other Net Sales                              8.073 
70 Non-Salcs Transactions  I                   (1,425         Selling Price in $/ton             $ i 20.81    $24.5
71 inclSecuritiesandJV                             1} J       ProdnCostin$/ton                    $6.21    $11.1
72 incl Local Taxes                               158 1j
80 Total Income                  Q   23-719  104.434ii
90 Balance Profit/Loss           0    6,689   (4,259 I     90 Unit Profit                          5461      (521
92 Investment Deductions         0        0    4,944  i        in $/ton                           S2.41     (S0.4
94 Profit Tax                    0    2,140   (2,945  I                                      1
92 Net Income                    0    4,548   (1,314   1  92 Unit Net Income                       3721      (161
100 Excess Labour Costs                    8     5:376   I      Avg. Exchane Rate  1       251    2251       1.200
I                                                        I  
Profit Distribution           0        0      Di5           Production Costs ($/to4~
200 Budget                                        761
94 incl Profit Tax               0    2,140   (2,945   |       Base Production Cost     $S0.0o    $6.2|    $11.1
96 incl Other (PRF, Royalty)     0    4,186       76           Addn. Labour Costs        $0.0 |    $0.0      $0.0
101 incl Turnover                                2,977          Addn. Other Costs        Su        $QQ        Su
150 incl Excess Labour Tax                       1,688           TotalProd. Cost         $0.0      $6.21    $11.1
i       (% increaise)                                 79%
210 Reserves for Insurance                            i
220 Savings/Investment Fund                           l         * incl Investment Fund d6ductions
230 Consumption Labour                             119|
250 Cbarity
260 Other                                          24   i
270 Rent/Lease on Land                                I  I_I_I_I_I
Budget (Cash)                          Q   38,417          Tax Exemptions                         0      4.944
300 Property Tax                                  756      500 Reconstruction livest.                        4,310
310 ProfitTax                                    2,211     520 EnvironmentalProtec.           I
340 Royalties and Polluion                       7,457     530 Health Care Invest.   |                        635
350 Land Tax                                      222      540 Charity NGO's
355 VAT                                         12,109     550 Other
356 Excise Tax                                   6,208     560 Other                 _                  __j
360 Export Duties                                  77
365 bIport Duties
380 Personal Tax                                 1,943
386 Other                                        7,214
390 Fines                                         220



73
Amex 5-3
Page 5 of 6
FINANCIAL STATUS OF PRODUCER ASSOCIATIONS
Balance Sheet                            YUGANSKNEFTEGAS
(Milion Rubles)
Code                            1991     1992 1993IQ3      Code                      1   19911    1992 1993 Q3
1. Fixed Assets                                            1. Capital    
12 Non-Material NFA                      2        33     400 Charter Capital          6,076    6.218     10,673
20 Fixed Assets GFA          8,274  200,975  256,701      410 Resources
21 Accum. Depreciation       3,295   88,926  101.058      420 Special Funds              50  142,859   289,535
22 Fixed Assets NFA          4,979  112,049  155,643      430 Earmarked Finanial          7      105          9
30 Equipment CWIP              35       978    3,613      440 Other
40 Iavestment CWIP            743   22,959   99,134       450 Other
50 Long Term Investment        69    3,702    9,736   j 460 Other
60 Settlement of Founders                                 470 Profit in Current Year           32,463    65,973
70 Other Non-Current Asset      Q         0        0      471 Profit Distributed               32,667    70,480
80 Total Fixed Assets I      5,826  139,690  268,159      472 Profit Not Distributed      Q        3     (5
480 Total Capital           6,133  149,184   295,711
I. Current Assets
100 Suppliers/Stocks           187    3,212   20,784          II. Current Liabilities
110 Catde                        5       51       247      520 Total Loans                10        1
120 Low Value Assets            34      272    2,645       600 Short Term Bank Loans     189   19,950    53,096
130 Uncompleted Constr.          7       117   15,499      610 Bank Loans to Persons       2        0         20
140 Advances                     0        0       202      620 Short Term Loans            4    4,051      4,869
150 Production                  98    1,158    6,795       630 Trade Payables            200   28,815   222,279
162 Materials                  254    8,630   57,422       640 Outstanding Bills
170 Trade Costs Goods                            440       650 Wages Payable             175    1,773     13,032
175 Other                                       9,016      660 Social Insur Welfare       18    1,391     17,014
176 Other                                        &1        670 Prop. & Personal Insur.     1        4         28
180 Total Current Assets II    585   13,440  113,870       680 Other
690 Non-Budgetary             119    1,971      5,530
I m. Settlements                                       700 Budget                    100   31,970   204,952
200 Receivables                 117   28,355  268,549      710 Other Creditors           343    7,138    59,224
210 Bills Receiveable                                      720 Advances from Cust.         1      663        723
220 With Affiliates                                        730 Advance Payments            0      990      1,091
230 to Budget/State              35    4,673    3,531      740 Advance Payments           61    1,349      1,873
240 to Personnel                 2       284    3,251      750 Bad Debt Allowance
250 Other Debtors                98   35,801  132,482      760 Other Short Term          454        0          Q
260 Advances to Suppliers         3      612   15,995      770 Total                    1,676  100,066   583,729
270 Short Term Investment       42    5,038    7,950    _
280 Cash                          1      167      675      780 BALANCE LIAB.           7,809  249,250   879,441
290 Current Account             348    4,442    9,365          errors                 -0.00%   -0.00%     0.00%
300 Forign Exchange              13    7,923   28,619                              I        I
310 Other iquid Assets          34       965   14,003          Ratios                  1991      1992       1993 
320 Other Current Assets        7D     7,542    7.987
330 Total II                  1,397   95,808  492,406          Current Ratio            1.18      1.09      1.04
CA/CL.                   1.46      1.31      0.94
340 Loss from Previous Year       1        1                   CA/FA                    0.34      0.78      2.26
350 Loss from Currew Year                312    5,0            Debt ($ million)           $8     $107        $48
______________________  ______  Debt Service Ratio (full)    0.00  1.33  1.14
360 BALANCE ASSETS            7.8091 249,251  879.441          A/R as % of Sales   I         f    8%        29%



74
An= 5.3
Page 6 of 6
Profit and Loss       YUGANSKNEFN EGAS                   Unit Costs (Rubles/ton)
(Million Rubles)
Code                     1 1991        1992 1993 Q3    ICode                          1991     1992 1993Q 0
Profit and Los s                                          Production (mln tons)   40.0     39.4       8.1
10 Gross Sales Revenues (ca h)     114,108  215,978      10 Avg Domestic Price               3,109    56,125
15 VAT                              20,095   31,319      15 VAT percent                       18%       15%
20 ExciseTax                         4,911    5,140      20 Excisepercent                      5%        3%
30 Other (Inal PRF, Royalty         14,165   30,745      30 Other percent                     12%       14%
40 Prouedon Costs                   54.2097   U7_6       40 Avg. Prodn Cost                  L5    1086
50 Sales Gross Margin           0   20,840   61,108      50 Avg. Gross Margin                  530     7,S68
60 Other Net Sales                   5,422   (1,570
70 Non-Sales Transactions            5,604    6,435         Selling Price in $/ton           $13.8     $46.8
71 incl Securities and JV            6,812    1,830         Prodn Cost in $/ton               $6.1      $9.0
72 incl Local Taxes                   (349   (2,738
80 Total Income                 Q   85i963  13U"
90 Balance Profit/Loss          0   31,866   65,973      90 Unit Profit                        810     8,170
92 lnvestment Deductions        0    2,128   23,518         in $/ton                          $3.6      $6.8
94 Profit Tax                   0    9,516   13,586
92 Net Income                   0   22,350   52,388      92 Unit Net lIcome                    568      6,488
100 Excess Labour Costs             143   12889              Avg. AExcane Rate          25      225
Proftt Distrbution           Q   32       20,483         Production Costs $fto
200 Budget                            8,280   32,120
94 incl Profit Tax              0    9,516   13,586          Base Production Cost*   $0.0    $6.1       $9.0
96 incl Other (PRF, Royalty)    0   14,165   30,745          Addn. Labour Costs      $0.0    $1.7       $2.1
101 incl Turnover                              6,482         Addn. Other Costs        SuQ      Su        SL
150 incl Excess Labour Tax             207    4,507          Total Prodn. Cost        $0.0    $8.6      $12.2
(% increase)                              41%
210 Reserves for Insurance
220 Savings/Invesmnt Fund             9,014   13,236         * inl Investment Fund d :ucdons
230 Consumption Labour               15,310   20,733
250 Charty                               12     238
260 Other                                52    4,153
270 Rent/Lee on Land                           415
Budget (Cash)                Q   2982    37991           Tax Exemptions              Q    2421     2U1I
300 Property Tax                       131      693      500 Reconstsucion Invest.              22    17,090
310 Profit Tax                        3,019    3,671     520 Environment Protec.
340 Royaltes and Pollution            4,760    1,754     530 Health Care Invest.              2,094     6,199
350 Land Tax                            32       92      540 Charity NGO's                      12        230
355 VAT                               9,961   18,371     5 50 Other
356 Excise Tax                        3,916    1,270     560 Other
360 Export Duties                      710
365 Import Duties                              1,241
380 Persnl Tax                        1,409    4,948
386 Other                             5,909    4,379
390 Fines                               45    1,572



75
Annex 6-1
Page 1 of 17
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL OVERVIEW OF THE OIL PRODUCER ASSOCIATIONS
I. MEGIONNEFTEGAS (MNG)
A. Overview
1.    Megionneftegas is a medium sized oil producing enterprise in Western Siberia with just under
17,000 employees. Its operational structure is made up as an association of a number of functional
sub-units (see Annex 5-2) with an asset base of 9 developed and 6 undeveloped fields. In addition
to the production units, the enterprise operates 27 drilling rigs, 40 workover rigs and supports
substantial technical and social infrastructure in the region. In 1993, MNG produced 13.5 million
tons of oil (270 thousand barrels per day), contributing 5 % of the oil from the Tyumen Region or
about 4% of total oil pro&-i'ed in Russia.
2.    Foreign investment activity to date has been limited. A contract with MICI, a Belgian firm
to finance well workovers and potential new field development is in a preliminary stage.
Megionneftegas is also negotiating to assume part ownership of a refimery in Belarous.
B. Investment Requirements/Proposed Project Component
3.    Megionneftegas medium term investment plans are summarized in the table below. Capital
requirements for MNG to maintain production at 1993 levels is estimated at US$3.2 billion between
now and the year 2000. This includes US$1.4 billion in new field development and US$1.8 for
maintenance and routine well workovers. The proposed Project component will finance
asproximately 10% of planned 1995/96 investment activity. Clearly the level of investment required
by MNG to maintain production levels, although not as daunting as the larger Producing
Associations, is stfill very substantial.
Table 1
Megionneftegas Investment Plan
1993         1994         1995         1996
Production (min tons)                13.5         13.0          11.9         11.3
Workovers (#)                       695          700           720          730
of which Bank program                                        5%           5%
New Wells (e)                       295          700           800          800
of which Bank program                                        5%           5%
Pipeline Replacement (kin)          920          920           920          920
of which Bank program                                       14%          14%



76
Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 17
4.    MNG's oil production has been steadily declining since 1986. This is due to a combination
of factors, the most prominent of which is the lack of fiancial resources to access the much needed
equipment, spare parts and new technology for major field rehabilitation, and development of known
fields. The technical difficulties experienced by MNG are principally due to the poor integrity of
equipment, with many production weUls requiring excessively frequent workovers due to mechanical
failures of casing, primary cementations, tubing and sucker rod strings, and downhole pumps.
Failure in the field pipeline and surface facility infrastructure has also been occurring at an
accelerating rate due to increasing internal corrosion as field water production has escalated. To
make an immediate impact on production levels, financing is urgently required for equipment and
supplies to complete well workovers, drilling and completion of infill wells, and replacement of
pipeline and surface facility infrastructure.
5.    The proposed Project has been designed to promote an integrated approach to investment
planning. Emphasis has been placed on field optimization and reservoir strategy. The proposed
component for MNG therefore includes financing of rehabilitation, development operations and
replacement of field pipeline and surface facility infrastructure in two fields; Megion and
Pokoniasovskoye. To further catalyze the approach of investment optimization the proposed Project
will also include financing for technical assistance to assist in preparing a detailed reservoir
assessment and optimization strategy for the Pokomasovskoye field. Finally, a component is
included to enhance the emergency and environmental response capabilities of the Producing
Associations by financing required environmental equipment and training.
6.    Project cost and operation summaries for each of the two fields in the proposed Project are
contained in Annex 6-4 and Annex 7-1 respectively. The proposed Project, estimated to cost
US$169 million (excluding import duties and fnacing costs) would include: 75 well workovers and
completions, 76 new infill wells, 255 mn of surface pipeline replacement, and the environmental
equipment and training and technical assistance described above.
C. Brief Geological Setting
7.     The license area of MNG is approximately 150 by 300 kilometers, located in the Tyumen
Region of West Siberia. The south flank of the license area is forested ground which lies generally
above the flood plain. In contrast, the nordtern license region is dominated by the flood plain of the
river Ob. The flood plain reaches up to 50 kilometers in width during the spring and summer
months, and in 1989 was officially declared a Water Resource Protection Zone. MNG has
subsequently been required to adapt traditional operational procedures to reduce any further adverse
environmental impact in the Protected Zone area. These regulations have resulted in a significarnt
curtailment in MNG's oil production potential. Modifications to conventional drilling practices have
not been able to meet the enviromnental requirements and substantial production has therefore been
indefinitely shut in. Two of the fields most significantly impacted by these constraints are the Megion
and Pokamasovskoye fields. Without access to foreign exchange and proven international technology
and expertise, particularly in regard to horizontal well drilling and drilling fluids, this production will
remain undeveloped. Following is a brief overview of the fields to be included within the proposed
Project. Operational statistics for each of the fields and for MNG in total are shown in Tables later
in this Annex.



77
Annex 6-1
Page 3 of 17
Megion Field
8.    The Megion field is one of the pioneer oil fields of Western Siberia covering some forty
square kilometers of the Water Resource Protection Zone. First production came on streain in 1964
and production reached close to I million tons in 1990 (20 thousand barrels per day). The field
comprises three producing zones each developed with its own grid of production wells and water
injectors. The producing horizons include; A-group, B-8, and the Jurassic formation with average
reservoir depths of 1718, 2110, and 2470 meters respectively. Continuous injection of water has
maintained reservoir pressure at close to original thereby preventing the decline of gross production
rates (oil and water). Water cuts have been steadily increasing and are currently averaging over 85
percent. Oil production in 1992 was 0.85 million tons (17 thousand barrels per day) down 15 percent
from the level produced in 1990.
9.    As shown in the table below, remaining recoverable reserves at the Megion Field are
estimated at 16 million tons (118 million barrels) and are located principally in the permeable
Cretaceous B-8 and A-Group reservoirs. The primary drainage of these reservoirs are essentially
complete, however, it is estimated that over 2 million tons (14.76 million barrels) of undrained
reserves lie under the river Ob, beyond the reach of Soviet deviated drilling technology. The Jurassic
reservoir no longer presents a viable target for further development drilling, although the potential
for fraccing or commingled production should not be excluded. The proposed Project is designed to
tap the remaining reserves through horizontal well drilling while undertaking the required well
rehabilitation and surface facility investnent to drain this field to maturity. A sequential
implementation of this component is recommended to ensure expected productivity is achieved.
Table 2
Megion Field Reserves
(million tons)
Reservoir    Initial       Production to   Remaining
Reserves     Date          Reserves
A- Group             6.1          1.3           4.8
B-8                 56.1         46.0          10.1
Jurassic             7.7          0.3           1.3
Total               63.8         47.6          16.2
Pokamasovskoye Field
10.    The Pokamasovskoye field also lies entirely within the flood plain of the river Ob, but unlike
Megion is in the early stages of development. The field is jointly exploited by Langepasneftegas from
the north bank of the Ob and by MNG from the south. MNG's development drilling in parts of the
field have been indefinitely suspended untl appropriate equipment is accessible to reduce the
environmental impact of continued drilling activity in the field.
11.   Production from the Pokamasovskoye field started in late 1988, and 216 wells have been



78
Annex 6-1
Page 4 of 17
drilled on a close grid in the center of the field. Production reached a plateau rate of over 1 million
tons in 1991. Water injection was initiated in 1989 and reservoir pressure is again close to original.
12.    The reservoir is a sand of Jurassic age, on average 7 meters thick and located at a depth of
2740 meters. It is set in a low relief anticline whose crest corresponds approximately to the course
of the river Ob. As shown below, remaining reserves are estimated at 14 million tons (103 million
barrels) with two thirds of these located in the shut-in North and West North West area of the field.
Table 3
Pokamasovskoye Field Oil Reserves
(million tons)
Field Area     Initial         Production to    Rematning
Reserves        Date            Reserves
Central              7.4             2.9             4.5
North                2.8             0.0             2.8
WNW                  6.7             0.0             6.7
Total               16.9             2.9            14.0
D. MNG Operational Data
13.    The following provides operational data for the Megionneftegas Producing Association and
that of the two fields included within the Project.
Table 4
Megionneftegas: Hlistoric Operational Performance Statistics
1986    1988    1990    1992       1993
Production/Injection: Oil   mill.tonslyr    22.5    21.5    17.3    14.6    13.5
Water                       mill.tons/yr.   34.4    55.9    66.6    73.8    74.0
Gas                         mill m3/yr      1505     1443     1157      977     758
Water injected              mill.tons/yr    68.1     76.7    70.8    81.9    78.0
Development Wel Statistics
Producers                                   1567    2124    2483    2871    3076
Idle Wells                                   156       68      149      148     298
Injectors                                    291      422      529      637     682
Total Wells                                 2014    2614    3161    3656    4046
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well    tons/day           57       25       19       14      12
Avg. Water Cut               %                61       72       79       84      85



79
Annex 6-1
Page 5 of 17
Table 5
Megion Field: Historic Operational Performance Statistics
1986     1988      1990     1992
Production/lnjection: Oil     mill.tons/yr     0.85     0.91      0.95    0.85
Water                         mill.tons/yr.    2.19     4.38      4 98     5.38
Gas                           mill m3/yr         68       73        76       68
Water injected                mill.tons/yr     3 31     2.83      3 03    3.44
Development Well Statistics
Producers                                        79      140      171       173
Idle Wells                                       29       12        19       18
Injectors                                         9       15       26        34
Total Wells                                     117      167       216     225
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well       tons/day           37       12        8         3
Avg. Water Cut                %                  72       83        84       86
Table 6
Pokamasovskoye Field: Historic Operational Performance Statistics
x_______     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
Production/Injection: Oil     mill.tonstyr     0.01     0.24      0.59      1.05    1.06
Water                         mill.tons/yr.       0        0      0.04     0.12    0.30
Gas                           mill m3/yr          1       13        32       57       57
Water injected                mill.tons/yr        0        0      0.56      1.90    2.30
Development Well Statistics
Producers                                         2       26        67      108      149
Idle Wells                                        0        2        20       32       33
Injectors                    __           _       0        0        13       23       34
Total Wells                                       2       28       100      163      216
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well       tons/day           43       44        31       30       22
Avg. Water Cut               ___           I      0        0         6       10       22



80
Annex 6-1
Page 6 of 17
II. TOMSKNEFT (TN)
A. Overview
1.    Tomskneft is a medium sized Producing Association located in the Tomsk region abutting
Tyumen with iust under 27,000 employees. The operational structure of TN is an association of five
NGDU's (production units) including; Streshevoyneft. Vakhneft, Vasyuganneft, Luguinesneft, and
Igolneft. The enterprise has an asset base of 25 discovered fields, 6 of which are currently under
development. In addition to the production units, the enterprise operates 42 drilling rigs, 110
workover rigs and supports substantial technical and social infrastructure in the region. In 1993, TN
produced 11.6 million tons of oil (230 thousand barrels per day), contributing 4% of the oil from
the Tyuiren Region or about 3 % of total oil produced in Russia.
2.    Tomslneft has had an active approach to foreign investment activity. Contracts, although still
insignificant in terms of total investrnent requirements, are nonetheless further forward than some
of the larger producing enterprises. Contracts have been reached with Fracmaster (with IFC
involvement) and with Oman Oil. Contracts to workover 705 wells by October 1994 have been
agreed.
B. Investment Requirements/Proposed Project Component
3.    The medium term investment plan for Tomskneft is summarized in Table 1.  Capital
investment requirements for TN to maintain production at 1993 levels is estimated at US$3.5 billion
between now and the year 2000. This includes US$1.5 billion in capital investment (US$0.4 billion
to bring shut in wells back on stream and US$ 1.1 billion to develop known fields), and an additional
US$2 billion to fmance maintenance and routine well workovers.
Table 1
Tomskneft Investment Plan
1993         1994          1995         1996
Production (mln tons)                 11.6          11.7          11.3         11.1
Workovers (#)                       2800          3700          4000         4400
of which Bank program                                         6%            6%
New Wells (#)                        809           720           720          750
of which Bank program                                         1%           1%
Pipeline Replacement (km)           1,000         1,100        1,100         1,100
of which Bank program                                         26%          26%
4.    TN operations include 4,112 producing wells and 1,311 injectors (see Table 2). Of the



81
Annex 6-1
Page 7 of 17
producing wells 2,260 (55%) are equipped with sucker rod pumps, 932 (23%) with ESP's and 920
(22%) are flowing. The flowing wells are required to shift to artificial lift (ESP's) in the near future.
The number of shut-in wells has risen sharply over the last few years growing from 400 in early
1990 to over 1,500 at present. Pump failures are a significant operational constraint causing
replacement at least once per year (compared with at least two years for international equipment).
5.    TN also has severe operational difficulties with its 4,300 kilometers of pipeline and surface
facility infrastructure. Pipeline failures and operational shut downs are accelerating due to escalating
internal corrosion, exacerbated bv the low quality of the steel pipe.
6.    The proposed Project includes an integrated approach for field rehabilitation (well workovers,
in-fill drilling and replacement of field infrastructure) in three of Tomskneft's three most important
fields; Sovetskoye (Strezhevoyneft NGDU), Vakhskoye (Vakhneft NGDU), and Pervomaiskoye
(Vasyuganneft NGDU). The proposed Project will also include financing for technical assistance to
assist in preparing a detailed reservoir assessment and optimization strategy for the Sovetskoye field.
Finally, a component is included to enhance the emergency and enviromnental response capabilities
of the Producing Associations by financing required enviromnental equipment and training. Project
cost and operation summaries for each of the three fields in the proposed Project are contained in
Annex 6-4 and Annex 7-1 respectively. The proposed Project, estimated to cost US$195 million
(excluding import duties and fiacing costs) would include: 525 well workovers and completions,
11 new infill wells, 576 km of surface pipeline replacement, and the environmental equipment and
training and technical assistance described above.
C. Brief Geological Setting
7.     The license area of TN is approximately 700 by 400 kilometers straddling the territory of
the Tomsk and Tyumen regions of West Siberia. A large percentage of the operational environment
is wetland, where operations are particularly subject to environmental sensitivities. Oil reserves of
TN are estimated at 570 million tons (4.1 billion barrels) contained in reservoirs of Lower
Cretaceous and Upper Jurassic age. The oil is of high quality with a specific gravity of 0.82-0.85
and a viscosity at reservoir conditions of 0.5-0.9 centipoise. All fields are subject to water drive by
water injection whereby the reservoir pressure is kept close to initial, which is hydrostatic.
Sovetskoye Field
8.    Production from this field marked the start of operations of Tomskneft PA in 1972. It is the
PA's largest field with an original oil in place volume of 530 millions tons and approximately 226
million tons ultimate recovery. Cumulative production stands at 130 million tons leaving 96 million
tons as remaining reserves. Oil production has declined continuously over the last 8 years by 5% to
10% each year, to about 3 million tons per year at present.
9.    Production is principally from the Lower Cretaceous, the main production formation is the
A horizon, subdivided into 8 zones of decreasing aerial extent and with thicknesses varying between
3 and 10 meters. The less important B horizon is now essentially depleted.



82
Annex 6-1
Page 8 of 17
10.   Major reservoir and fluid characteristics are summarized in Table 3 below. The average well
rate is 8 tons per day; water cuts range from 40% to 90%, averaging 70% for the Al reservoir and
84% for the whole field. To date a total of 1,190 producers and 230 injectors have been drilled; 150
producers are closed in, awaiting repair. Detailed well and production statistics are shown below.
11.   The medium term drilling program for the field involves 400 infill wells both in the center
and the northern part of the field. The 30-35 wells planned for 1994 are expected to yield an average
oil production of 16 tpd.
12.   The pipeline system in Sovietskoye is more extensive than in other fields. During the initial
development phase wells were drilled from individual pads rather than in clusters. The system
suffers from major corrosion problems causing frequent leaks and consequent well shut-ins and
pollution.
Pervomaiskoye Field
13.   This field is the Vasyugan NGDU's largest accumulation and accounts for about 70% of its
oil production. The reservoir is an Upper Jurassic, single monolithic sandstone at a depth of about
2,550 m with a thickness varying between 6 and 10 m. Major reservoir and fluid characteristics are
summarized in Table 4 below. A total of 470 oil wells and 490 injectors have been drilled to date
and the primary development of the main field is considered to be complete. The ultimate oil
recovery is estimated at 44 million tons of which 50 per cent (22 million tons) has been produced.
The production history over the last 8 years is shown below.
14.   The average well produced 20 tons/day; the current field water cut is just over 20 per cent.
A total of 150 producers and 60 injectors are currently closed in for repair. Corrosion pi oblems are
mainly encountered in the water injection system and in the production system connected to the high
water cut producers. The field extends in a westerly direction into the Tyumen region and
development is planned for this area by drilling a total of 250 wells, 160 producers and 90 injectors.
The feasibility of drilling slim hole side tracks from existing wellbores, either to replace a lost
drainage point or to recover attic oil will be investigated on a small scale (4 wells). As this is an
ecologically sensitive forest area, it would benefit from the application of horizontal drilling rather
Fan the currently planned development by conventional, vertical wells.
Vakhskoye Field
15.   The Vakhskoye Field has been on production since 1976. It is subdivided into three areas:
the central, the eastern and the northern area. Development started in the central area, followed by
the eastern area in 1986 and the northern area in 1988. The total initial oil in place is estimated at
323 million tons, with ultimate recovery at 146 million tons of which 30 million tons have been
produced to date (see Table 5).
16.   Production is from the Upper Jurassic Jl and J2 reservoirs; sand thicknesses vary between
5 and 20 m. Major reservoir and fluid characteristics are given in Table 5. The total number of
producers is 780: 370 in the central, 290 in the eastern and 120 in the northern area. Of these some



83
Annex 6-1
Page 9 of 17
280 are closed in. The recent production history of the total of the three areas is shown below.
17.    The northern area is least developed, with only 4%  of its reserves produced to date, and a
major part of the future drilling activity (some 500 wells) is focused on this area. However, part of
it is located under the flood plains of the Vakh river, which makes it an ecologically sensitive area
and a prime target for development by high angle/horizontal wells.
18.    Average oil production rates in the three areas are in the range of 8 to 16 tpd/well, water cuts
between 21 % and 53 %, the highest value referring to the central area. Three horizontal wells have
been drilled in the field so far, of which two are on production. The performance of these wells has
been disappointing, which is attributed to the severe formnation damage, caused during drilling.
Corrosion problems are most severe in the central area, which has been on production for the longest
tine and has the highest watercut.
D. Tomskneft Operational Data
19.    The following provides operational data for the Tomskneft Producing Association and the
three fields included within the Project.
Table 2
Tomskneft: Historic Operational Performance
1993
Production/Injection: Oil  mill.tons/yr  11.6
Water                     mill.tons/yr.   21.1
Gas                       mill m3/yr    1,224
Water injected            mill.tons/yr    42.7
Development Well Statistics
Producers                              4,112
Idle Wells                             1,559
Injectors                              1,311
Total Wells                            6,982
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well   tons/day        8
Avg. Water Cut                          65%



84
Annex 6-1
Page 10 of 17
Table 3
Sovetskoye Field: Historic Operational Performance
1986     1988     1990     1992     1993
Production/Injection: Oil    mill.tons/yr     5.0      4.5      2.9      3.2      2.9
Water                        mill.tons/yr.   13.1     15.6     16.7     16.1    15.2
Gas                          mill m3/yr       357      279      242      203      181
Water injected               mill.tonslyr    17.4     17.6    17.1      17.4    17.2
Development Well Statistics
Producers                                     876      974      981    1.019   1.039
Idle Wells                                     36       30       81      127      146
Injectors                                     197      196      212      226     232
Total Wells                                 1,109    1,200    1,274    1,372   1,417
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well    tons/day           9.6     15.1     15.8    29.1    12.5
Avg. Water Cut               %               72%      78%      81%      83%      84%
Table 4
Pervomaiskoye Field: Historic Operational Performance
1986     1988     1990     1992     1993
Production/Injection: Oil    mill.ton /yr     1.9      3.0      3.2      2.7      3.4
Water                        mill.ton/yr.     0.2      0.4      0,4      0.6      1.0
Gas                          mill m3/yr                                           196
Water injected               mill.ton/yr      3.7      5.8      6.8      6.2      7.5
Development Wel Statistics
Producers                                     230      334      385      360     470
Idle Wells                                     78       95      102      120     210
Injectors                                     238      360      430      475     494
Total                                         546      789      917      955   1,174
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well    tons/day            30       33       15       20      20
Avg. Water Cut               %                8%      11%      11%      17%      23%



85
Annex 6-1
Page 11 of 17
Table 5
Vakhskoye Field: Historic Operational Performiance
1986     1988     1990     1992     1993
Production/injection: Oil    mill.ton /yr     2.5      2.6      2.6       1.9     2.6
Water                        milfLton/yr.     1.9      1.7      1.7      1.0      1.2
Gas                          Mi:  m3/yr        70       75      230      180      177
Water injected               mill.tonlyr                                          6.2
Development Well Statistics
Producers                                     480      570      650      470     780
Idle Wells                                     15       40      100      315     280
Injectors                                     140      180      220      220     244
Total Wells                                   635      790      970    1,005    1,304
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well    tons/day            21       12       10       11        9
Avg. Water Cut               %               45%      40%      40%      34%      32%



86
Annex 6-1
Page 12 of 17
III. YUGANSKNEFIEGAS (YNG)
A. Overview
1.    Yuganskneftegas is one of the largest oil producing enterprises in Russia, producing about
15% of the oil produced in the Tyumen Region and contributing about 10% of the Russian total.
It has an asset base of 42 developed fields and over 55,000 employees. By international comparison,
based on current production levels, (production in 1993 was 33 million tons or 660 thousand barrels
per day), Yuganskneftegas is simnilar in size to one of the larger mid sized international oil companies
such as Amoco. Current production levels understate the size of the enterprise, however, as by its
proven reserve base and past production levels it would be more comparable with one of the
international majors such as Exxon or Royal Dutch Shell. By any comparison, as part of an effective
economic reform programn and successful enterprise restructuring, YNG should have the asset base
to become a strong and profitable oil enterprise.
2.    Yuganskneftegas includes four NGDU's (production units) namely; Ustbalik, Mamontova,
Maiskoye, and Pravdinskoye. In addition to the production units, the enterprise operates 93 drilling
rigs, 124 workover rigs and supports substantial technical and social infrastructure in the region.
B. Investment Requirements/Proposed Project Component
3.    The medium term investment program for YNG is outlined in Table 1 below. Capital
investment requirements for YNG are substantial. To maintain production at 1993 levels it is
estimated YNG would require US$10 billion between now and the year 2000. This estimate includes
about US$5 billion in capital investment (US$1 billion tr bring shut in wells back on stream and
US$4 billion to develop known fields), and an additional US$5 billion for maintenance and routine
well workovers. Although the proposed Project for Yuganskneftegas will make an immnediate impact
on production levels and export earnings, the level of investrnent that YNG requires to stabilize
production levels will only be achieved through massive external direct investment.
Table 1
Yuganskneftegas Investment Plan
1993         1994         1995          1996
Production (mlni tons)               33.4         30.7          25.9         24.2
Workovers (#)                      2,200        3.400         4,300        4,500
of which Bank program                                        7%           7%
New Wells (#                        990         1,000         1,100        1,100
of which Bank program                                        2%           2%
Pipeline Replacement (km)          1,200        1,200         1,200        1,200
of which Bank program                                       N/A           N/A



87
Annex 6-1
Page 13 of 17
4.    YNG is a prime example of the difficulties facing oil producing enterprises in Western
Siberia. Production has declined by over 40% since 1988, when YNG produced over 68 million tons
of oil (1.4 million barrels per day) and the outlook is for this trend to continue. This rapid decline
is the result of two key factors. First, YNG has depended on two super giant fields for tle majority
of its production (Mamontova and Ust-Balyk). These fields have reached maturity and are entering
into natural decline. This natural decline has been significantly accelerated, however, by the lack of
equipment and spare parts for routine maintenance and well workovers in these large existing
operations. YNG has an existing stock of over 1 1,300 producing wells, 3,400 of which are currently
shut in awaiting repair or new equipment.
5.    Second and equally important, however, YNG has not been able to fmance investment in new
field development to bring proven reserves into production to offset the expected production declines
from its maturing fields. For YNG to stabilize production in the medium term major investment will
be required both in; (i) routine maintenance and well workovers to maximize production in existing
fields; and (ii) new field development to bring proven reserves on stream.
6.    The proposed Project for YNG includes an integrated approach to address these concerns.
The proposed Project would fmance: (i) a modernization program for the Mamontova field including
well workovers, rehabilitation, and in-fill wells to make an immediate impact on production levels
and increase ultimate economic recovery, (ii) completion of wells in the Srednye Asomkinskoye
field, where many potentially prolific wells have been left idle due to a lack of required technology
for high pressure hydraulic fracturing, and (iii) in-fi!l drilling in Prirazlomnoye for which advanced
deviated drilling techniques are required to address reservoir permeability and environmental
concerns. Emergency response equipment and training is also proposed to assist in reducing the
environmental impacts of production, and, technical assistance to prepare a field optimization strategy
for the Prirazlomnoye field.
7.    Project cost and operation summaries for each of the three fields in the proposed project are
contained in Annex 6-4 and Annex 7-1 respectively. The proposed Project, estimnated to cost
US$223 million (excluding import duties and financing costs) would include: 576 well workovers
and completions, 40 new infill wells and the environmental equipment and training and technical
assistance described above.
C. Brief Geological Setting
8.     The license area of YNG is approximately 300 by 400 kilometers, located in the Tyumen
Region of West Siberia. The northern limit of the license area is defmed by the river Ob, and the
western by the river Irtush. The flood plains of these major waterways and their tributaries reach a
width of up to 50 kilometers during the spring and summer months. Following is a brief overview
of the fields included within the proposed Project. Operational statistics for each of the fields and
for YNG in total are shown in the Tables below.
Mamontova Field
9.    The Mamontova field is one of YNG's largest oil fields, and one of the first to have been



88
Annex 6-1
Page 14 of 17
brought on production, in 1970. Production reached its peak in 1986 at 35 million tons per year,
(700 thousand barrels per day). It is estimated that over 30% of the producing wells are out of
service, awaiting workovers. The reported loss of production potential is estimated at 250,000 tons
per year.
10.   The field comprises six producing zones each developed with its own grid of production wells
and water injectors. The producing horizons include; A-4,5,6 and B-8, 10,11 with average reservoir
depths between 1,900 and 2,455 meters. Continuous injection of water has maintained reservoir
pressure slightly above original, thereby preventing the decline of gross production rates (oil and
water). Water cuts have been steadily increasing and are currently averaging over 85 percent. All
wells are on artificial lift using either ESP's or beam pumps. Oil production in 1993 was 14.0
million tons (280 thousand barrels per day) down over 60 percent from the peak 1986 level.
11.   As shown in Table 2 below, remaining recoverable reserves in the Mamontova Field are
estimated at 140 million tons (over 1 billion barrels) and are located principally in the permeable
Cretaceous B-10/11 reservoirs at a depth of about 2,500 meters. The primary drainage of these
reservoirs are reaching maturity, however, significant undrained reserves lie within unswept areas
of the main field and at the edges of the field limits, supporting further economic in-fill drilling.
12.    This proposed Project is designed to tap the remaining undrained reserves through well
workovers and horizontal well drilling while undertaking the required well rehabilitation to support
this field to reach ultimate economic recovery. As the field has over 4,500 development wells it is
beyond the scope of the World Bank project to rehabilitate the entire field. Well selection and
screening will be undertaken to ensure that investment is targeted to the most productive wells while
maintaining sufficient concentration in activities within the field to demonstrate the Project impact.
Table 2
Mamontova Field Reserves
(million tons)
Reservoir    Iitial       Production to   Remaining
Reserves     Date         Reserves
A-4                38            30            8
A-S,6              21            12            9
B-8                10             5            5
B-10,11            504          386          118
Total              S73          433          140
Srednye Asomkinskoye Field
13.    The Srednye Asomkinskoye field lies in a remote area some 100 km east of Nefteyugansk.
It is the major field in a cluster of oil fields, commonly called the Fainskoye Fields, which have all



S9
Annex 6-1
Page 15 of 17
proven to be oil bearing in the Jurassic reservoir. Except for the northernmost tip, the field is
entirely outside the southern limit of the river Ob. rhe southern and eastern limits fall within a
heavily forested area.
14.   The field was brought on to production in 1989 and 200 wells have been drilled on a close
grid in the center of the field. Production has been disappointing in the suo-vertical wells despite
water injection having been implemented from the outset. This is due to the poor inflow performance
of the wells as a result of a relatively low matrix permeability coupled with poor drilling practices,
particularly the heavy mechanical skin left on the wellbore. Many wells have been left idle since
the departure of the drilling rig due to a combination of poor evaluation results and the inability to
finance necessary foreign equipment and technology for acidising and high pressure fraccing
operations.
15.    The reservoir is a sand of Jurassic age, on average 7 meters thick, set in a low relief
anticline with an average permeability of 36 mD. As shown in Table 3 below there is an estimated
11 million tons (80 million barrels) of remaining recoverable reserves. YNG entered into a foreign
joint venture with Fracmaster which has had excellent success with hydraulic fracturing of these
wells. The contract with Fracmaster is agreed on an annual basis with specific wells targeted for the
Joint Venture. Since there are a substantial number of wells which require hydraulic fraccing the
Project component is anticipated to fully complement the activities of the private sector.
Table 3
Srednye Asomkinskoye Field Oil Reserves
(million tons)
Reservoir    finitial      Production to   Remaining
Reserves     Date          Reserves
Jurassic U-1      12            1            11
Prirazlomnoye Field
16.    The Prirazlomnoye field is a giant field which is located in the north western corner of
YNG's license area and is in the very early stages of development. The northern limit of the field
area lies under the flood plain of the river Ob, and the south western under that of the river Irtush.
A substantial portion of the central and southern area underlies a vast cedar forest reserve. The
southern half of the field was offered for tender, however, no agreements have been reached.
17.   The north central portion of the field has been under conventional development since 1986,
but production performance on a per well basis has been disappointing. This is attributed to a
combination of low formatioi. permeability coupled with poor drilling practices which have induced
mechanical skins on the wellbores.
18.   The reservoir is a sand of Jurassic age, that thickens from some 6 meters in the south to over
20 meters in the north. Permeability also improves toward the north, reaching 60 mD. As shown



90
Annex 6-1
Page 16 of 17
below the field's remaining recoverable reserves are estimated 224 million tons (1.6 billion barrels).
Russian Institutes have proposed horizontal well drilling to develop this field, but the Soviet deviated
drilling technology is not sufficiently advanced for this field's development. The proposed Project
is therefore proposed as a demonstration project for horizontal well drilling in this field to hopefully
catalyze further private sector involvement.
Table 4
Prirazlomnoye Field OJI Reserves
(million tons)
Resevoir        IIniall         Production to   Remaining
Reserves       Date            Reserves
Jurassic B-4,5      230              6             224
D. YNG Operational Data                                                                             0
19.    The following  section provides operational data for the Yuganskneftegas Producing
Association and the three fields included within the Project.
Table S
Yuganskneftegas: Historic Operational Performance
1992    1993    1994
(proj)
Production/lnjection: Oil              mill.tons/yr   40.8    33.4    30.6
Water                                  mill.tons/yr.    134.2   141.0   147.7
Gas                                    mill m3/yr             1,576   1,500
Water injected                         mill.tons/yr    221.1   220.0  222.0
Development Wenl Stadstics
Producers                                                    11,303
Idle Wells                                                    3,435
injectors                                                     3,223
Total Wells                                                  17,961
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well               tons/day        14.3    13.5    11.2
Avg. Water Cut                         %              77%      S1%     85%



91
Annex 6-1
Page 17 of 17
Table 6
Mamontova Field: Historic Operational Performance
1986     1988     1990    9I'       1993
Production/Injection: Oi                mill.tons/yr     35.2    31.3      24.4     15.3    14.0
Water                                   mill.tons/yr.    36.5     84.7    91.9    74.6    56.8
Gas                                     mill m3/yr      1,480    1,320    1,103      640     588
'Water injected                         mill.tons/yr    92.2    116.3    119.1      96.7    88.8
Development Well Statistics             =_=_=_=_=
Producers                                               2,481    2,546   2,746    2,296   3,875
Idle Wells                                                48       120      198     938   1,260
Injectors                                                856      1092     1169    1,183   1,349
Total Wells                                             3,385    3,758    4,113    4,417   6,484
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well                 tons/day         40.5     34.0    28.4      19.3    18.0
Avg. Water Cut                          %                51%      63%      73%      80%     80%
Table 7
Srednye Asomkinskoye Field: Historic Operational Performance
1989     1990     1991     1992
Production/Injection: Oil    mill.tons /yr    0.032    0.207    0.076   0.185
Water                        mill.tons/yr.      0        0    0.003   0.008
Gas                          mill m3/yr      2.18    14.08     5.17   12.58
Water injected               mill.tons/yr   0.052    0.331    0.181   0.321
Development Well Statistics   __=
Producers                                      22       62       88      51
Idle Wells                                      0        8       49      79
Injectors                                       4        6       11      22
Total Wells                                    26       761   148       152|
Avg. Oil Prod./New Well    tons/day             8       18        6       7
Avg. Water Cut               %                  0    0.8%       4%      4%



92
Annex 6-2
Page I of 2
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL RECOMMENDATIONS
1.    This Annex discusses a number of aspects of oil upstream operations in West Siberia which
need attention as a means of enhancing operational efficiency and increasing productivity, some of
which would be directly relevant to the proposed Project.
A. Geophysical and Exploration Geology
2.    On various techniques currently being employed for the discovery and delineation of new oil
fields, the following are recommended:
(a)   The need for closer coordination between the Producer Associations and enterprises
responsible for appraisal of new oil reserves to enable formulation of optimum field
development plans;
(b)   Increased use of seismic surveys and data to better define and delineate the geological
structures, thereby enabling a significant reduction in the number of wells needed for
defining the reservoirs; and
(c)   Coordination of exploration and development drilling programs to facilitate
compatibility with, and the use of, exploration wells in production operations.
B. Development Drilling and Well Completion Practices
3.    In view of the very large number of development wells which are drilled to exploit the fields,
and the large number of fishing operations which are required for maintaining wells on production,
it is suggested that each of the Producer Associations involved in the Project set up a technical task
force to review and recommend a revision of the current drilling and completion practices, which
would allow for a reduction in the number of wells required and thereby reduce the number of
workovers. This task force would consider:
(a)   the possibility of simultaneously producing reservoirs intersected by individual wells;
(b)   improving the quality of the geological data acquired from each well by using modern
logging and well testing techniques and services;
(c)   improving the quality of well completion and stimulation practices by using modem
and higher quality cement, chemicals and technologies; and
(d)   using higher quality tubing and couplings which would greatly reduce the number of
fishing jobs caused by parted tubing.



93
Annex 6-2
Page 2 of 2
C. Oil Production and Reservoir Pressure Maintenance
4.    Very large volumes of fluids (oil and water) are currently being produced. Over the passage
of fime, the crude oil content is continuously decreasing. Moreover, very large volumes of water
are injected into the reservoirs under the pressure maintenance programs. The Producer Associations
are encouraged to consider the advantages of:
(a)   lowering the pumping mechanism employed for lifting fluids in the wells to increase
weU deliverabilities;
(b)   injecting crude oil/water emulsion breaking chemicals into each well on production,
to allow for the rapid separation of water from the effluent at the first gathering
facility;
(c)   reducing, or possibly eliminating, the amount of water being injected into the
reservoirs; and
(d)   preparing reservoir models to better understand the behavior and performance of the
wells and reservoirs (a technical assistance provision is included in the proposed
Project for reservoir modelling as discussed in Annex 6-3).
D. Surface Production Facilties and Pipeline Operations
3.    The following measures are suggested:
(a)   In order to reduce waste, it should be possible for the Producer Associations to
require from steel mills a fill quality control inspection of all tubulars purchased,
prior to their shipment to the centers of consumption;
(b)   To mitigate internal corrosion of all surface facilities and flowlines, the Producer
Associations would need to initiate and sustain, on a continuous basis, a program of
chemical injection for corrosion inhibition;
(c)    To reduce external corrosion of all pipelines and flowlines, Producer Associations
should organize an appropriate quality control monitoring system to ensure that all
lines are wrapped and coated properly with suitable materials and include, whenever
possible, galvanic protection of the pipelines by an impressed current and sacrificial
anodes; and
(d)    Consider, over time, a major redesign of most production facilities to simplify
operations and to allow for the rapid elimination of reservoir-produced waters as soon
as possible from the production trains and systems.



94
Annex 6-3
Page 1 of 3
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
FIELD OPTIMIZATION STUDY
RECOMMENDED SCOPE OF WORK
A.    Objectives
1.    To establish a medium and long term field development plan for a key field under production
to maximize the future economic performance of the field's exploitation, whilst also maximizing the
recovery of remaining oil.
2.    To establish a computerized data base of both technical and financial data in order to
continuously update the study results, as further production and operating cost data become available,
in the search for further economic optimization.
3.    To develop an operations philosophy which will serve as a basis on which to continue
exploitation of the field through to abandonment. This will include the identification of procedures
needed to ensure successful application of new technologies and field accounting processes identified
during the course of the study.
4.    To facilitate the transfer of ownership and full responsibility for the economic exploitation
of the field entirely to the Production Association, in contrast to the current situation where Field
Development Plans are dictated centrally.
5.    To ensure incorporation of environmental considerations as a fundamental criterion in the
technical design and in the operations philosophy for the field.
B.    Analysis of Existing Data
6.    The first step will be to load all available data into an appropriate data base. Such data will
include seismic, wireline logs, well deviation data, well tests, core data, historic fluid production and
water injection, pressure build-up, PVT, analyses of production and injection waters and maps of
surface facilities. Well files, including drilling and work-over histories, should also be made
available. These data will then be analyzed, validated and checked for consistency and accuracy.
C.    Identification of Additional Data Requirements
7.    After analyAis of the existing data, additional operations and/or data collection may be
recommended in order to complete the data set. Such items could include additional seismic, drilling
and coring of monitoring wells, wireline logging, more accurate production measurements through
upgraded measurement facilities and trials to remove mechanical skin in the well-bore.



95
Annex 6-3
Page 2 of 3
D.    Reservoir Modelling and Characterization
8.    Analysis of the data from Tasks B and C above will allow a geological model to be
developed. This will include structure maps, isopach maps, and cross-sections. This information,
together with wireline log and core analysis, will be used to obtain a characterization of the reservoir
which will provide a quantitative description of the spatial variation of the main reservoir variables
(porosity, permeability and oil saturation).
9.    The model will form the basis for determination of the original oil in place volumes, accurate
analysis of past reservoir performance and predictions of future production performance.
E.    Reservoir Engineering Stuffies
10.   Reservoir studies, both conventional, and based on a simulation model, will then be
performed in order to evaluate the past reservoir performance and to validate the reservoir model.
This model will then be used to:
(a)   evaluate alternative development scenarios;
(b)   obtain a reliable estimate of the remaining recoverable reserves under each scenario
and select the economically optimum scenario;
(C)   identify the main uncertainties in future field development; and
(d)   provide guidance for a program of reservoir surveillance and field management.
F.    Production Engineering Studies
11.   These studies will address production optimization issues such as well completions,
prevention of wellbore damage, removal of mechanical skin, potential for dual completions,
recompletion strategy, horizontal wells and artificial lifting methods.
G.    Operations Philosophy and Procedures
12.   A new operations philosophy needs to be developed to guide the Associations through the
period of adaptation to the new economic and cost-conscious environment. The introduction of new
techniques and technologies as identified by the Field Opdtmization Study needs to be supported by
a clear vision of how oil field operations are to be run in the future. New procedures will need to
be developed in support of these operations. Crucial will be the establishment of an integrated
production operations planning, monitoring and control system.
H.    Alternative Surface Facilities
13.   In response to the results of Tasks E, F and G above, the design and operations of surface



96
Annex 6-3
Page 3 of 3
facilities will be reviewed. This will include the promotion of scenarios which minimize the
enviroramental impact of the Field Deveiopment Plan.
I.    Economic Evaluation
14.   Each scenario proposed under Task E above will be evaluated with regard to marginal costs
and benefits and cash flow. A detailed model for Operating Costs (OPEX) will be developed in
order to allow optimization of the future business performance of the field. A particular focus will
be an assessment of the economic remaining reserves in support of Task E above.
J.    Field Optimization Plan
15.   The above work will be summarized in a Field Development Plan which will propose one
scenario for the future exploitation of the field which provides the highest economic returns,
consistent with the Operations Philosophy. Investment opportunities will be identified to further
improve the economic performance of the field. This FDP will then be incorporated in the Business
Plan of the Production Association.
16.   The FDP will be a living document, to be reviewed on at least an annual basis as additional
technical, production and cost data become available. A data base will have been established which
will facilitate the future management of the field.
K.   Training
17.   Throughout the above sequence of integrated activities, the training of Production Association
and other staff in a systematic approach to the optimization of a field's economic performance in the
new business environment will be emphasized. The Field Redevelopment Study clearly offers the
ideal opportnity to provide personal growth in both technical and management skills over a two year
period and develop self-sufficetncy for field optimization decisions within the Production Association.



97                                       A6U
Pa lotas
IMPLEMEITAIION SCBEDTJLE
1994    1994     1994    19f       199S     1995 -     95         . .   j    ,
._______________        02        Q3      Q4        QI       02      Q3       Q4        Ql       02       Q3   _
Boatd Pxtwuiiilo                 30Juan
LOan Effecthveow  (90 days)         -
Advison Mobhil d                         1:. Av#.
Rig Bid Relme
Rig Bid Rpaation (75 das)              *SCpl
Rig Bid Evalustim (30 das)                         14-Olt
Rig Coniumdn (15 days)                             Z  f
Workar Rig Dciivuy (I 10 days)   ALL                        *feb
Duling Rig Sev     (90 days)    MNG1.
Drlg Rig Devry (150 dao)         YNG                               ;
Otder Bid Rdease                          0. Sp w1y
Bid Pmparin (45 day)                               164)d            ."-4un
Wid Evaluszo  (45 da)                              WI.$*                      ISJIuI (30 das 
Contring (15 day)                                .  t                         3Sut
Ddhelim (60 days)                                     .      3Fr34
Flkh Audios                                                            WJuu       ..afJ
Field Optinaon Studies                              SOcti
Workovers                                                      47      188      355      509      650      792      959    1,113
New Wells                                                       4       20       40       57       74       90      110      127
LinepipeReptac-m  (n)                                          51      205      387      555      709      863    1,045    1.085
Sof Towal ogm                                                4%      17%      32%      46%      53%      71%       S6%     100%
Watk Daw Avllble                                       70       25       77       91       84       77       77       91       84
XPENDURME PROFULE (S MONO)
1994    1994    1994    1995    1995        1995     1995      1996     1996     1996 -
...___________ 0_Q Q2    Q3    Q4                                         ,Q3Q4    Qi    02    03    Q4
Warweriig$                                             2        4        9
Dril  Rigp                                             6                36
Suppsrlunt                                             4       11       11
Procaslng iqulpm=                                      S       14       14
Eavloamen_  Equipment                                  2        5        5
Equ ument&COmmodktes                                  16       29       29       29       41       41       41
Servies                                               14        3       11       12       11       11       11       12       11
Teche aAssbtsw                                 I        1        1       2        2        2         2        2        2        2
Fueld 9udles                                           1        0        1        1        1        1        1        1
L4caosucton                                                     4       11       13       12       11       11       13       12
Cont_geocies                                           2        3        3        3        5        S        5
Local Thasport
importuies                                                     15       16        4        6        6        6
Sub-Total                                    DA      SZA      AU      147.2    iS       1MA       221 2A2 25.1               i
MC and Fees                                                      3                 8                 8                13
C undav Expenditures                           1       53      145      2J3      367      446      530      606      653      678
% of Toatd                                  0%       8%      21%      43%      54%      66%      78%      89%      96%    100%
S in RuaainFY                                        8%                                 58%                                 34%
%n 1ngikY a.                                                          43%                                 460              1%
TOTAL OPERATIONS
-__________ I_ _  Total   MNO     TO       YNC
war&ft~ft                         1.176       75      525       76
. Rip                                I8       2         6       10
Day per Woulover                     10       16        6       12
Tml Timc (YausC)                    2.1      1.8      1.7      2.1
ffgff   i                            V127     76       11       40
RIj                                   6       3         1        2
Darper Wenl                          28      27       25       30
Toml Ti(Yeau)                       2.1      2.1      0.Q      1.8
I.085     407      59S       80
CQws                                  U    3    4
Darper kmperCww                      4        4         4       4
T     IsMThwYeun)                   1.3       .6      1.8      &-&
*  s    an 330 tl wailabls days per yeaw. R1ga hods we icopoae h    vasge wwopai d.
07.4: PM - ONOW



98
Page lotS
(USS miloa)
Aggregate Project
act ~    ~ _lmet               Toa                       1994                     1995n _1
I_______                     _     L1ca   Ptx   Toald  Loca   Forex   Tota    Loca    Pro    Tota    Lca   Porex  Tomi
1. Equipment & Mat8oals                                                _           __ 
Base Cost                                  336    336               33       33             227     227               76      76
PbysicalCoatng4acies                        26      26               2       2               17      17               6       6
Price Conmncaes                              6       6               Q       a                                I a     2
ToW Cost                                    367    367               36       36             247     247               84      84
2 Commodr4es
BaseCost                                    13      13                1       1               7       7                5
P bysical Conzngnies                         I       1               0       0               0        0               0
PriceComingen"es                             Q       Q                                                                Q
Toal Cost                                    14      14               1        1               8       8                5
3 Services
Base Cost                                   88      88               13      13              34      34               41      4
PhysicalCotingencies                         6       6               1       1                2       2               3
PriConeinesnia                               2       a               0       Q               1       1               1
TotalCost                                    96      96              14       14              37      37              45       45
. Technical Assistance
DaseCost                                    21      21               2        2               9       9               11      11
Physic Co _tigacias                          2       2               0       0                1       1               1
Pfice Condngencies                           a       a               a       a               Q        Q               Q       S
Toal Cost                                    23      23               2       2               to      tO               12      12
S. Local LabourlConutiudon
BaseCost                            85              85                               39              39       46              46
Physicd Continescies
Price Congezcies                    2                                                        1                        1
Totl Con                             87              8                               40               40      48              48
6. Local Transport
Bas Cog
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingemns
Total Cost
.Import Dutes                         53              53       5               S      36               36      12              12
Total Base Project Cost               139    458    596         5      49      54       75     277     352      59      131     1
.PhysicalContigencles                       34      34               4       4              20       20              10      10
Prme CoDngncies                     2        a      la               Q       a       1       1        j       1       A
Tol Project Cost                      141     500    640        S      53       S8      75     302     377      60      146    206
. Finandng Costs
on IBRD Loan                              38      38               3       3               1I      1               18       1
on Cher Lon
10. Total Finandrno Requlrd            141    538    678        5      56      61      75      318     394      OD
0646 PM -06  JW"



99                                                    AAe3 6.
page 3 of 5
(U3S$ million)
Megionneftegas
PwjectEeet       .                      Toial                     1994                    199S                    1996
_1_ Equ_pmen___ M__ t_            Local  PFoex   Total   Loca   Forex   Toad   L            Fox   Toala  Local  Forx    ToWa
Base Cost                                   92     92               110         0t          66      66    -         16      16
Physical Coangcia                *          6       6               1       1               4       4    -           I       1
Price Condngedes                 *1                 1                                       I 0     I    -          a       Q
TotalCost                                   99      99              11      11              70      70    -          17      17
2. Commodites
BaseCost                                    7       7               0       0    -           4       4    ,          3       3
Physical Condngencbes                       0       0               0       0               0       0    -          0       0
Price Contingencies                         0       a               0        0              0        0-             0       0
TotalCost                                    8       8               1       1               4       4    -           3       3
3. Services
Basecost                          -        34      34               5       5               13      13    -         16      16
Pbysical Coningencies            -          2       2               0       0               1       1
Price Contdagencies              -          1       1               Q        0              Q           -           0       0
Toal Cost                                   37      37               5       5              14       14    -         17      17
4. Technical Assistancs
BaseCost                          -         6       6               0       0                3       3    -          3       3
Physical Contlngencies           -          0       0               0       0               0       0    -          0       0
Price Contingecies               -          0        0              Q        0              0       a -             0       0
TotalCost                                    6       6               1       1               3       3    -           3      3
S. Local Labour/Construction
Base Cost                           19    -         19                              9    -           9      10    -         10
Physical Contingeies
Price Coaingenries                  0 -             0                               0 -             n        0-             0
Total Cost                          19    -         19                               9               9       11    -         11
6. Local Transport
Bass Cost
Physca Contingencies
Prie Contgencies
Tota Cost
T.ImportDuties                        iS    -         15       2    -          2      11    -          11      3    -          3
TotalBasseProjectCost                 34     139    173        2      16      18      19      85     105       13     37      SO
.Physical Co_Mi AgNs                          8       8               1       1               5       3               2       2
Prce Contigencies                   0       2       I               Q      Q        Q       1       1       Q       1       1
otalProjectCo-s                       35     150    184        2      17      19      19'   92       111       13     41      54
9. Financing Coats
on IRD Loan                              12      12               1       1               5       S               5       5
on OUe Loans
10. Total Financina Reulred           35     161    196        2      18      20      19      97      117     13
06:46 PM -06/0994



100
Page 4 of 5
RIM  SFCnN               EABU.TIN  PRJC
Tomskneft
Project Elemems            |               Tatal                     199                     1995                    1996
.. Equipment  M Materials                                  Local  Forex   Toma   Local  Forex   Totall  Loca]   Forex   ToTal
Base Cost                         -        116     116    -         10      10              7 74    74    -         3       32
Physical Connagencies                      10      10    .                                  6        6    -          3       3
Price Coningencies                          2       2    -Q                                 1.       1    -                 I1
Total Cost                         -        128    128    .          11      11              82      82    -         3S      35
. Commodities
Base Cost                             *      2       2    -          0       0    *          1       1    *           1       1
Physical Contingencies                      0       0    .          0       0    .          0       0    -           0       0
Price Condngencies                          a              -- Q                                     Qa  a            a 
Toal Cost                                    2       2    .          0        0               1       1               I       1
3. Services
B    CaseCst                      -         20      20    -          3       3               8       8               9       9
Physical Condngencies                       2       2    .          0       0    .                   1    -                  1
Price Contingencies              -                  a Q-            a       a               a       a    -           a       Q
Total Cost                         -        22      22               3       3                        8    -         10      10
4. Technical Assistance
Base Cost                                    8       8               1       1               3       3    -          4       4
Physical Contingencies                      I       I               0       0    -          0       0    -           0       0
PriceContingencies                          a       a               a       a    -          a       a    -           a       a
Total Cost                         -         8       d               1        1              4        4    -          4       4
S. Local LabourlConstructon
Base Cost                           35    -         35            .                 16    -         16      19    -         19
Physical Contingencies
Price Coningencies                  1                -      1    .                                  16      19    -         19|
Total Cost                          35              35                               16              16      19              19
S. Local Transport
Base Cost
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Cost
7. Import Dutes                        18    -         18      2    -           2      1I1             it            -
Total Base Project Coats              53      145    197       2      14       16      27      86     113      24      45      69
p  Physical Condngencies                     12      12                1       1               7       7               4       4
Price Contingencles                 I       1       1               a       a       a       I       I       1        1      2
TomalProjectCost                      53      160    213       2      15       17      27      94     12       24      so      75
S. Flnancing Costs
on tBRD Loan                             12      12               1        1               5       5               6
on Other Loans
10. Total Financing RequIred          53     172    225        2      16     18        27     100    127       ^
06:46 PM -06/09194



101 
PqeSofS
Yugapskmeftegas
TOI                      199                     1995               .      9
______________._____   L0-a1  SOr    Totd   Local  Form    ToW                      al 7xR   Totn   Local  por    Te
1. Equlpment & Materals.
Dam cost                                  128    128    .          13      13    -        87      87    -         28 
Pbsical Coungetcies                       10      10    -          1       I    .          7       7    -          2      2
}  Price Condvgenc-                        2       I    -                                  1       1 -   I1
Totad Cost                        -        140    140    -         14      14              95      95    _         32      32
* Commodities
I     CoseCt                                4       4              o0      0               2       2    -          2       2
PysiycnContnos                     -     0       0               0       0               0      0               0      0
Pridce Conugences                          a       Qa    -         a                               Q    -         a       a
Total Cost                            -      5      5    -          0       0               3       3               2       2
Base Cost                        -         34      34    -         5       5    -         13      13    -         16      16
Physical Contingencies                     2       2    -          0       0    .I                 I               1 
PriceCoqiencies                            I 1     1 -             a                       a a     Q              a         I
Totl Cost                                   37     37    -          5       5              14      14    *17               17I
Technical Assistance
B ECost                          -          7       7    -         I       I               3       3    -          4       4
i Pysw ConfingewAft                        I 1-01                              .           0                      0       0
Porie CosDt   CieS                          a       a                   Q     a a           Q       a               a      Dl
ToutalCost                                   a      8    -          1       1               3       3               4      4
S. Local Labour/Corstructl"'n
BasmCost                           32    -        32                              i 1S    -       15      17    -         17"
Physical Contdngencies                   -
Price CContngeves                  1 -             1                                   -          Q       1    -
TOal Cost                           33    -        33                              IS    -         IS                     is
8. Local Transport
Base Cost
Phya Contigncies
Prie Conngencies
TOSa Cost
T. Import Outes                       20             20       2 -             2      14 -            14       5   -
Total Base Projet Cosbt               52    174    226        2      19      21      28     106    134       22      49      71
8  PhyswcalContdnges                         13     13               1       1               8       8               4      4
PriceCoingencies                   1               A              Q        a       a       a                      1       2
Totad Poje Cost                       53    190    243        2      20      22      28     115     144      22      S5      77
*. FInancing Costb
on lMD Laa                               14     14               1       1               6       6               7      7
on e Loans
10.TotalFlnanclna Rewuy               53    204    257        2      21      23      28     122     150      :2      61     84
06:46 PM - 06I~9A4



LENDING ARRANGE MENTS, LEGAL DOCUMENTS, AND ELOW OF FUNDS
4>FUNDS
LOA
AGREEMENT         ACCOUNT
AG E
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LOAN
ON - LENDING         AGREEMENTS
FUNDS
MNG                  l                 l
GOODS & SERVICS|
PRODUCING ASSOCIATIONS



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
(FOR EACII PRODUCING ASSOCIATION)
PROJECT DIRECTOR
E       P     ICRMN  .AAE                      '                               l                  I
P_ROCURMENT MANAGER                    TECIHNICAL MANAGER       FINANCE MANAGER  ADMIN/LOGISTICS
MANAGER
EIELD TECHNICAL UNITS
0                                           - GEOLOGIST
- RESERVOIR ENGINEER
- PRODUCTION ENGINEER
- DRILLING ENGINEER
- ENVIRONMENT ENGINEER
_____________ -------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------------ ------------
OS     PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST                                   TECHNICAL SUPPORT     rINANCIAL    LOGISTICS
I UNDER BANK PPFr                                     UNDER BANK PPF1      SPECTALISTS   SPECIALIST
BE  I                                           I                      I
g                  ~~~~~~~~~ENVIRONMENT  GEOLOGIST/             PRODUCTION         DRILLING 



104
Annex 6-7
Page 1 of 9
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TCECNICAL, PROCUREMENT AND LOGISTIC SERVICES FOR
THE PROJECT IPLEMiENTATION UNIT
DRAFf TERMS OF REFERENCE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of the Russian Federation and                          (Producer
Association Name) have applied for a loan from the World Bank for US$  million equivalent
towards fnancing components under the World Bank's Second Russia Oil Rehabilitation Project.
The beneficiary intends to apply part of its loan to a contract for Technical and Procurement
Advisory Services, which is the subject of this letter,
2.    The Producer Association will establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which consists
of the following Russian staff to be designated by the Association: a Project Director would head the
PIU and would be supported by a Technical Manager, a Procurement/ Disbursement Manager, a
Finance Manager and a Logistics/ Administrative Officer. In addition to the PIU, the Producer
Association will form Field Technical Units at the NGDU level consisting of the following staff
designated by the Association: a Geologist, a Reservoir Engineer, a Production Engineer, a
Workover/ Drilling Engineer and an Environment Specialist.
3.    To strengthen the PIU, consulting support services would be provided under the proposed
loan to assist the Technical, Procurement, Logistics and Finance Managers.  A reputable,
internationally known firm, conversant with West Siberian conditions and World Bank practices, will
be selected to provide the following specialists for the PIU backed by the experience and home office
support of the firm. Other skiUs that you feel may be appropriate should be included in the
proposal:
(a)    Specialists to support the Technical Manager would likely include a Reservoir
Engineer who would assist in project management, a Production Engineer, a Drilling!
Workover Engineer, an Oilfield Equipment specialist, a Pipeline engineer (in
Tomskneft and Megiomieftegas) and an Environmental Specialist. These specialists
would provide advice on project implementation to the PIU Technical Manager in
their respective areas of competence. This advice would be extended to the NGDU
level through the Field Technical Units;
(b)   A Procurement Specialist would advise the Producer Association on World Bank and
oil and gas procurement procedures and assist in all aspects of the procurement
process (including the preparation of draft equipment specifications and bid
documents, preparation of bid evaluation reports and final contracts with suppliers
and service ,ontractors, and preparation of disbursement requests) as well as



105
Annex 6-7
Page 2 of 9
recommend the institutional changes required to strengthen the Producer Association's
procurement capabilities; and
(c)   A Logistics Specialist would provide support to the logistics manager in the
management of shipping, inspection and expediting contracts and overall logistics and
materials management, in conjunction with the procurement teamn.
4.    Knowledge of the Russian petroleum industry will be a definite advantage as will previous
experience on World Bank-financed projects for procurement activities. Each of the above specialists
would need to be available for the two years over which the Project would be implemented. The
specialists would be needed at the Producer Associations with the exception of the procurement
specialist who would work out of the Association's Moscow based procurement office. The
Producer Association will provide accommodation and board. The specialists should be aware that
living and working conditions prevailing in Western Siberia during most of the year are severe.
5.    Home office support will also need to be made available throughout the implementation
period of the Project to provide qualified vacation backup and assist with training, specialized
technical skills, liaison with the World Bank and any technical queries that come up. It is expected
that approximately 110 man-months of total support will be required.
6.    Feasibility studies have been carried out to define the Project, which will be made available
to shortlisted bidders. Procurement will be divided into roughly two equal tranches and the Producer
Association has commenced development of draft bidding documents (based on World Bank standard
bidding documents) and detailed equipment specifications for the first tranche of equipment and
services, with the assistance of local procurement advisors. The selected firm would be expected
to provide immediately a procurement specialist and a specialist to assist in fmalizing equipment
specifications to complete this process prior to bid document release. The Loan is expected to be
approved and effective by September 1994 and the objective is to have the procurement process
completed and a maximum number of contracts ready for award shortly thereafter. Initial Project
implementation will start in late 1994 or early 1995. The remaining technical specialists would be
required to mobilize approximately 1 month prior to this date.
I. BACKGROUND
7.    The proposed Project's principal objectives are to help reduce the decline in oil production
in three West Siberian Oil Producing Associations by restoring idle and underproducing wells,
drilling selected new weUs in existing fields, rehabilitating surface infrastructure and enhancing future
production and operating practices through provision of critical goods, services and technical
assistance. The estimated total cost of the Project is approximately $680 million for which the World
Bank is considering a loan totalling $500 million equivalent. The proposed Project will finance
contracts for the critical goods and services needed by the Producer Association to support the
following key project components;
(a)   Workover of approximately 1.200 shut-in and under-producing oil wells including



106
Annex 6-7
Page 3 of 9
replacement of electric submersible and sucker rod pumps, utilizing purchased
international workover rigs with 80 to 100 ton lifting capacity;
(b)   Drilling of approximately 125 new wells in existing oilfields including horizontal
wells, using purchased or contracted internadonal drilling rigs (in Megionneftegas and
Yuganskneftegas);
(c)    Provision of technical services including MWD, logging, perforation, cementation,
acidizing, and other specialized services to support the workover and drilling
program;
(d)   Replacement of over 800 km of oil gathering lines and production flow lines
including partial installation of glass epoxy pipe (in Megionneftegas and Tomskneft);
(e)   Undertaking of a field optimization study for a major field under operation including
provision of data processing facilities, training, data collection and technical
assistance; and
(f)   Improvement of environmental management including emergency spill response
capabilities, environmental monitoring, relations with indigenous peoples, training
and initiation of pilot environmental clean-up programs.
HI. TECNICAL ADVISORY SERVICES
8.    The general tasks for which the technical specialists will assist the PIU are outlined below.
Procurement and logistics tasks are outlined subsequently. Other tasks which you consider
important should also be included in the proposal.
(a)   Assist in the development of detailed drilling, completion, workover and
infrastructure work programs related to the Project;
(b)   Assist in the evaluation of geological/reservoir engineering data to select candidate
wells and establish implementation priorities and assist in refinement of field
development plans based on data obtained during Project implementation;
(c)   Provide technical assistance and advice with regard to insta}lation, commissioning,
operation and maintenance of the oilfield equipment supplied under the Project, assist
the Association with specification of requirements for future procurement of
equipment and services under the Loan and support the PIU in the management of
well service contracts and other contracts associated with the Project;
(d)   Assist in the implementationof improved drilling and completion techniques to reduce
formation damage and enhance production capability of the field so that the nmber
of wells required to drain the reservoir may be reduced;



107
Annex 6-7
Page 4 of 9
(e)    Assist with evaluations of surface facilities operated by the Association, and
recommend where possible, measures to optimize operational procedures in order to
minimize costs and maximize oil and  gas throughout.   Make technical
reconunendations and assist in the development of alternate solutions for the
installation and operation of surface facilities associated with the Project;
(f)    Assist the Producer Association with co-ordination and management of the field
development studies and training program and assist in the preparation of programs
for acquisition of geological/reservoir data to be obtained from the drilling of new
wells or during the workover of older wells;
(g)   Assist the Producer Association with development of detailed terms of reference for
enviromnental studies and implementation of the environmental management, pilot
clean-up programs and environmental training components of the Project; and
(h)   Prepare periodic progress reports, as agreed with the PIU Manager and the World
Bank, for all the drilling, workover and infrastructure programs funded under the
Project.
IV. PROCUREMENT AND LOGISTIC ADVISORY SERVICES
9.    For the loan to be successful and funds disbursed quickly, the Producer Associations will
need technical assistance in the field of procurement and logistics/ materials management. Personnel
in each Producer Association are technically competent, but the traditional process for satisfying their
procurement requirements has broken down. The Association requires support, particularly in the
area of equipment specification and formal bid document preparation. To overcome these
difficulties, the following services would be required from the selected consultant:
(a)    Assist the World Bank to design and conduct a one week initial training program for
Producer Association staff involved in procurement covering (i) how the World
Bank's procurement policies and procedures will apply to their specific equipment
needs and (ii) the nature of the current oil field equipment market;
(b)   In conjunction with the oilfield equipment specialists help the Producer Association
finalize technical specifications for critically needed equipment and package each item
in a way to attract maximum competition from bidders;
(c)   Advise the Producer Association on the appropriate methods of procurement to be
used for each package (International Competitive Bidding - ICB or Limited
International Bidding - LIB);
(d)   Assist the Producer Association in preparing specific ICB bidding documents using
the Bank's Sandard Bidding Documents for Goods for use on all World Bank-
financed packages;



108
Annex 6-7
Page 5 of 9
(e)    Develop with the Producer Association a procurement schedule allowing reasonable
time for each step but resulting in a maximum number of contracts being ready for
signature shortly after loan effectiveness (approximately September 1994);
(f)    Monitor ongoing progress of the entire procurement process in the Producer
Association, helping to resolve, if needed, any problems relating to advertising, the
preparation of high quality specific bidding documents, answering requests for
clarifications from bidders, bid opening procedures, bid evaluation criteria and
techniques, preparation of high quality bid evaluation reports for World Bank review,
steps leading up to final contract signature, establishment of Letters of Credit, and
in conjunction with the logistics specialist described below provide assistance in
managing equipment delivery, customs clearance, inland transportation and final
payment and processing of disbursement requests to the Bank; and
(g)   Establish a reporting system for the Producer Association that will promptly flag
problems in any of these areas.
10.   The consultant will be responsible for the overall design and logistics of the training course
mentioned in point (a) above. The World Bank will provide all course materials and possibly a
trainer for a two day presentation concentrating on Bank policies and procedures. One day should
be reserved for a detailed discussion about the petroleum equipment market covering traditional and
new potential sources of supply, sources of current information about prices and other current market
trends, etc. The remaining two days should be spent answering questions, finalizing the initial
procurement plan for the Project and worldng on the drafting of the model bidding documents to be
used on the Project.
11.   It is anticipated that the selected firm will need to make available one full time expatriate
knowledgeable in all aspects of procurement and contract administration. Previous experience on
World Bank-financed projects will be a definite advantage.
12.   In addition to the Procurement Specialist based in Moscow  a Logistics/ Materials
Management Specialist is required in the Producer Association to provide initial support to the
logistics manager in the management of shipping, inspection and expediting contracts and in
establishment of warehouse procedures to handle equipment under the Project.



109
Annex 67
Page 6 of 9
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL SUPPORT SERVICES FOR
THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
I. BACKGROUND
1.    The proposed Project's principal objectives are to help reduce the decline in oil production
in three West Siberian Oil Producing Associations by restoring idle and underproducing wells,
drilling selected new wells in existing fields, rehabilitating surface infrastructure and enhancing future
production and operating practices through provision of critical goods, services and technical
assistance. The estimated total cost of the Project is approximately $680 million for which the World
Bank is considering a loan totalling $500 million equivalent. The proposed Project will finance
contracts for the critical goods and services needed by the Producer Association to support the
following key Project components;
(a)   Workover of approximately 1.200 shut-Ti and under-producing oil wells including
replacement of electric submersible and sucker rod pumps, utilizing purchased
international workover rigs with 80 to 100 ton lifting capacity;
(b)   Drilling of approximately 125 new wells in existing oilfields including horizontal
wells, using purchased or contracted international drilling rigs (in Megionneftegas and
Yuganskneftegas);
(c)   Provision of technical services including MWD, logging, perforation, cementation,
acidizing, and other specialized services to support the workover and drilling
program;
(d)   Replacement of over 800 lan of oil gathering lines and production flow lines
including partial installation of glass epoxy pipe (in Megionneftegas and Tomskneft);
(e)   Undertaking of a field optimization study for a major field under operation including
provision of data processing facilities, training, data collection and technical
assistance; and
(f)   Improvement of environmental management including emergency spill response
capabilities, environmental monitoring, relations with indigenous peoples, training
and initiation of pilot environmental clean-up programs.



110
Annex 6-7
Page 7 of 9
II. FINANCIAL ADVISORY SERVICES
2.    The Producer Association [NAME OF ASSOCIATION] requires the services of a firm,
familiar with both Russian and international oil and gas accounting practices, and with experience
in accounting and financial management under inflationary conditions to provide specialists to assist
in the implementation of the Second Oil Rehabilitation Project.
3.    The World Bank requires maintenance of separate and auditable project accounts with the
goal of ensuring loan proceeds are utilized efficiently and for the intended purposes. The contracted
firm will assist the Association in enhancement of current project accounting procedures and systems
to ensure full accountability of project funds and enable timely preparation of Project progress and
completion reports. Project accounting will be required within NGDU's on a well-by-well basis.
Project accounting procedures should be developed with due regard to materiality.
4.    In addition to project implementation assistance, the Association requires general financial
advisory services.  This includes immediate assistance in improving management information
capabilities and developing cash management procedures. Support is also desired in the process of
transformation to international accounting practices including the preparation of Association financial
statements which conform to international standards. The contracted firm will provide specialists
to:
(a)   assist in short term financial management and planning including support in the
development of sound cash, receivable and payable policies taking due account of the
unstable and inflationary environment in which the Association currently operates;
and
(b)   provide training in international oil and gas iccounting principles which will assist
the Association in preparation of financial statements which conform to international
standards. An initial task of the contract will be an overall training, information and
systems "needs" assessment.
5.    The Producer Associations will appoint an external auditor acceptable to the Bank at the start-
up of project implementation. The contracted firm should coordinate its advisory efforts with the
audit firm.



111
Annex 6-
Page 8 of 9
III. SCOPE OF SERVICES
6.    Under the direction of the Project Implementation Unit, implementation will occur within one
or more NGDU's in the Association over a two year period (from September 1994 to December
1996). The Financial Specialist/Specialists will need to be in place at the start of project
implementation. They will report to the Finance Manager and will maintain close coordination with
the Procurement and Technical Managers of the PIU as well as the technical and procurement
spcilists assisting them.
7.    The contracted firm would be expected to carry out the following tasks. Other tasks that are
deemed important should be included in the proposal.
(a)   Review project accounting requirements and current accounting systems and practices
at the Producer Association. A broader review will also be conducted by the external
auditors to identify potential accounting problems. These reviews should be carried
out in parallel to ensure consistency. Prepare a list of required procedure changes
and a work program for implementation by the Association.
(b)   Develop (if necessary) a simple computerized database system and recording
procedures which will allow maintenance of separate project records (by NGDU and
by wells). Produce monthly reports of project progress in both Russian and English.
Training in system use should be carried out at the Association along with training
in basic computer operations. The advisory firm should procure three micro-
computers (1 per NGDU involved in the Project), together with printers and supplies
which will be installed within the PIU.
(c)    Provide seminars on management and fincial accounting principles and practice.
Initial seminars should be directed at senior management of the Association with later
seminars directed at specific accounting and economics functions of the Association.
Seminars on Generally Acceptable Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the adjusting
entries required to transform Russian accounts to basic international GAAP should
highlight particular aspects of GAAP as regards oil and gas operations. The
Association will be required to prepare year-end financial statements for 1994
according to both Russian standards and GAAP.
(d)   Carry out a diagnostic study of short term management information requirements.
Cash management procedures (including receivable, payable and inventory systems
and strategies) should be examined in particular detail. Identify critical areas where
the Association would benefit from short term advisory services and technical
assistance and prepare terms of reference in conjunction with Association
management. Approximately 5 man-months are budgeted for these tasks.
The consultant should also prepare terms of reference for implementation of a broad
management information system including computerized accounting systems to be



112
AM k1
page 9 of 9
carried out at a later date.
(e)   On-going Supervision. One specialist should be at the Association for initial project
transactions, then every four months to monitor Project progress and accoting.
IV. ESTIMATED DURATION AND EFFORT
8.    The Project is expected to require the following commitment in consulting services. The
estimated '.dvels of effort shown below are intended as a guide only.
(a)    Project Accounting System Review
Timing: Month 1
Estimated Effort: 2 weeks senior, 2 weeks intermediate at the
Association.
(b)    Project Accounting Procedures and System Development
Timing: Month 2
Estimated Effort: 4 man-weeks intermediate (2 weeks at the Association)
(c)    Seminars on Management and Financial Accounting (GAAP)
Timing: Month 2
Estimated Effort: 6 weeks (senior) including 4 weeks at the Association
(d)   Diagnostic Review of Information and Advisory Needs
Timing: Month 3
Estimated Effort: 5 man-weeks - 2 weeks intermediate, 3 weeks senior.
Short Term Advisory Services
Timing: Starting Month 4
Budget: 18 weeks including 10 weeks senior and 8 weeks intermediate.
(e)    On-Going Project Supervision
Estimated Effort: 4 weeks during initial equipment delivery period plus 2 weeks every four
months for a total of 16 weeks (intermediate)



113
Page 1 of 2
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    The following supervision p!an takes into account only the requirements associated with
implementing Project components in the Producer Associations. Reviewing progress on the
Government's oil sector reform program and associated technical assistance will require
approximately 20 staff-weeks per year in addition. An average of 45 staff-weeks is required each
year for Project supervision.
2.    Review meetings will be held in each of the three Producer Associations each April (prior
to release of the coming year's equipment tenders) and September (prior to fnalization of the coming
year's workover program). On conclusion of each Mission the Ministry of Fuel and Energy will be
briefed in Moscow.
3.    Records will be maintained by each Producer Association showing original schedule against
actual achievements and supplied to the Bank on the following aspects of the Project:
(a)   procurement action by bid package (bid specifications, bid invitation, openiing of bids,
bid evaluation, award of contracts, signing of contract, and contract price);
(b)   physical progress according to Project components and contracts (highlighting critical
activities and bottlenecks);
(c)   actual Project costs and expenditures (local and foreign) and estimated remaining
expenditures (local and foreign) projected quarterly through Project completion;
(d)   information on problems encountered during implementation (including major
mishaps) and expected impact on commissioning schedules; and
(e)    minutes of meetings and progress reports of advisors.
4.    Progress reports by each Producer Association and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy are to
be submitted as follows:
(a)   quarterly progress reports starting in September 1994;
(b)   actual and forecast financial statements within three months of the end of each fiscal
year starting in March 1995;
(c)   audited Project accounts and fmancial statements within six months of the end of each
fiscal year stardng July 1995; and
(d)   a Project completion report.



114
Page 2 of 2
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHAILITATION PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION PLAN
I Approximate                          _xpected                                     stiiifPM
Dates                      Activity                      Skill Requremenas     (staff week:,
05/94 Procurement/Equipment Review                                                  10.0
(Pre-Board)                              Task Manager
- Finalize Equipment Usts Ist Bids       Petroleum Engineer
- Review PIU Letters of Invitation       Equipment Specialist
- FinaUlize Procurement Arrangements     Procurement Specialist
- Review Draft Bid Documents
07-09/94 Bid Docwnent Review                        Petroleum Engineer                 12.0
- Review Final Bid Documents              Procurement Specialist
09-11/94 Bid Evaluation and Workplan Review                                           14.0
- Review Bid Evaluations                 Task Manager
- Initiate Workover Planning             Petroleum Engineer
- Review Field Opdtmization TOR          Procurement Specialist
12/94 Workplan Review (Year 1)                                                      14.0
- Review Final Bid Evaluations           Task Manager
- Review Logistics Arrangements          Petroleum Engineer
- Review Well Workover Plans             Procurement Specialist
04/95 Second Year Equipment Review              I                                   12.0
- Review Equipment List 2nd Bids         Task Manager
- Review First Year Workover Results     Petroleum Engineer
- Review First Year Financial Position   Procurement Specialist
Financial Analyst
05-08/95 Bid Document Review                        Petroleum Engineer                14.0
- Review Draft Bid Documents             Procurement Specialist
09-11/95 Workplan Review (Year 2)                                                     14.0
- Review Final Bid Evaluations           Task Manager
- Finalize Workover Plans                Petroleum Engineer
Procurement Specialist
06/96 Project Completion Review                                                     6.0
Task Manager
Petroleum Engineer
__________t                             Financial Analyst



115                                                Page I of4
Aggregate Project                                  (uss moon)
{Project Elements                 IBRD               ECANs        PA's        Total       Quant        Units
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~ICB  Other_            _   _ _      C s      _  _   _  _   _  _   _
l. Equtipment & Materiab               3S8.3         9.0                                367.3
1.1 Rigs                             57.9                                             57.9
|    I.1.1I Drill Rig Purchiase     18.0                                             18.0          2    wuits
1.1.2 Drill Rig Equipment          24.2                                             24.2
1.1.3 Workover Ris                  15.7                    5_              .        1.7          IS    units
li Well Materiall                    52.5                                             52.5
1.2.1 Wfellheads                    3.2                                              3.2           91    units
1.2.2 X-MasTrees                    2.9                                              2.9           80    units
1.2.3 Casing                       26.8                                             26.8          691     km
1.2.4 Tubing                        18.3                                             18.3       2.241     knm
1.2.5 Acssori                        1.4                                              1.4
1.3 Lnfrasucture                     63.0                                             63.0
1.3.1 Line Pipe                    50.5                                             50.5          831     In     t
1.3.2 Fittings and Valves           6.1                                              6.1        6.105    units
1.3.3 M  e Eaui    _                6,5                                              6.5           16    unis
1.4 Pumping Equipment                97.3                                             97.3                        I
1.4.1 Rod Pumnps                    2.6                                              2.6          174    units
1.4.2 ESP Pumps sc Cable           94.6                                             94.6        1,129    units
1.4.3 Assoc. PwnP ng Equip.                                                         3 
1.5 Procesmg Equipmenlt              32.0                                             32.0
I.S.I Eguipment                    32.0                                             32.0            4    units
1.6 Environmental Equipment          12.4                                             12.4
1.6.1 Spill Equipment               6.3                                              6.3
1.6.2 Labs and Monitoring           4.3                                              4.3
1.6.3 Pilot Cleanup Equim            1.8                     _                        1.8
1.7 Support Equipment                26.4                                             26.4
1.7.1 Office Equipment              11.0                                             11.0
1.7.2 Workshop Equip.               13.3                                             13.3
1.7.3 Camps/Vehicles                2.1                                              2.1           11    units
1.8 Misellaneous Equipment           16.8         9.0                                 25.8
2. Commodities                          11.4         2.6                                 14.0
2.1 Drill Bits                        8.8                                              8.8        1,800    units
2.2 Chemicals                         2.6         2.6                                  5.2         490    tons
3. Services                                         95.7                                 95.7
3.1 Well Services                                26.1                                 26.1
3.2 Rig Services                                 64.7                                 64.7
3.3 Pipe Laying Services                          4.9                                  4.9
4. Consulting                                       23.0                                 23.0
4.1 Technical Assistance                         15.0                                 15.0
4.2 Field Study T.A.                              8.0                                  8.0
S. Local Costs                                                              87.3         87.3
5.1 Crews                                                                23.6         23.6
5.2 Infrastutr                                                           60.1         60:1
5.3 Ena. & Management                                                     3.7          3.7
6. Local Transport
7. Import Duties                                                            53.2         53.2
8. Physical CI ies
9. Funaning Costs                _______                   ___37.6                       37.6  _______
10. Total                              369.6       130.4         --178                  678.27
Cwmulative Emrntrl Fi               369.6        500.0        500.0
07:32 PM - 06/09/94



116                                                 Pag 2 of4
MODEM=NIARRAANME
Megionneftegas                                      (uss million)
Proect Elements                          IRD                ECA's         PA's        ToW        Qutty         UniTS
ICB        Other                                   n C .
1. Equipment & Materals                 95.8          3.0                                 98.8
1.1 Rigp                             10.1                                              10.1
l.1.1.1Drill Rig Purcase                                                                                   units
1.1.2 Drill Rig Equipment            7.4                                               7A4
1.1.3 Workover Ri                    2.7                                               2.7           2     units
1.2 Well Mateials                    16.3                                              16.3
1.2.1 Wellheads                      1.0                                               1.0          40    units
1.2.2 X-MasTrees                                                                                           units
1.2.3 Casing                        11.3                                              11.3         345      km
1.2.4 Tubing                         2.8                                               2.8         344      km
1.2.5 Accessories/Liners             1.2                                               la 12              .        ||
13 1nfastructe                        15.9                                             15.9
1.3.1 Line Pipe                     13.5                                              13.5         255      km
1.3.2 Finings and Valves             0.7                                               0.7         700     units
1.3.3 M   ering Einzmet              1.7                                               1.7           8     units
1.4 Pumping Equipmt                  12.2                                              12.2
1.4.1 Rod Pumps                                                                                             u
1.4.2 ESP Pumps & Cable             12.2                                              12.2         151    units
1.4.3 Assoc. Pumping Eauip.                                                                                        I
1.5 ProcEing Eqipment                32.0                                              32.0
1.5.1 Eaui=met                      32.0                                              32.0           4     units
1.6 1r_            gu Envhvme4.0                                                        4.0
1.6.1 Spill Equipment                1.9                                               1.9
1.6.2 Labs and Monhoriag             I's                                               1.8
1.6.3 Pilot Cleanup Equimnnt         0.4           _                                   0.4    -                    11
1.7 Support Equipment                 2.6                                               2.6
1.7.1 Ofrice Equipment               1.0                                               1.0
1.7.2 Constr/Worksop Equip,          1.6                                               1.6|          2un
1.7.3 Caunps/Vehicies                                                                                  units
1.8 M_ _e_ aneou_ s E_i_ ment         2.7          3.0                                  5.7
2 . Co nmodies                           6.6          1.2                                  7.7
2.1 Drill Bits                        5.4                                               5.4        1,160    units
2.2 Chemicals                          1.2         1.2                         1        2.3         220    tons
. Services                                          37.0                                 37.0
3.1 Well Services                                  2.9                                  2.9
3.2 Rig Services                                  29.7                                 29.7
3.3 Pipe Lavint Services                           4.4                                  4.4
ConswltIng                                          6.4                                  6.4
4.1 Tewhnical Assistance                           4.4                                  4.4
4.2 Field Study T.A.                               2.0                                  2.0
S. Loca Costs                                                                 19.5        19.5
5.1 Crews                                                                   6.6         6.6
5.2 Infasrucue                                                             11.6        11.C
5.3 Eng. & Manamem                                                          1.2         1.2
Local Tranport
. Import Duties                                                              15.0        15.0
8. Pbysical Condngees
9. Fancig Costs                                                               11.6        11.6
10. TOtal                              102.4         47.6                    46.1        196.1
Cumudativ Extemal Fwn                102.4        150.0       150.0.
07.32 PM - 06f09/94



117                                                  Ann"z6.M
Pap 3 of 4
rRQ                   AGEMENLA GEEME
Tomskneft                                            (uss milion)
pjea ElemenLs                             IBRD               ECA's        PA's         Total      Qu-amit -     Uni
ICB         Other                 _               Cost
1. Equpment & Materials                 125.2         3.0                                  1282
1.1 Rigs                              11.2                                               11.2
1.1.1 Dril Rig Purchs                                                                                       units
1.1.2 Drill Rig Equipment             8.2                                               8.2
1.1.3 Workover Rio                    3.0            _ __      _                        3.0           3     undu
1.2 Wel Matwiuls                       9.8                                               9.8
1.2.1 Wdlheads                        0.7                                               0.7           11     ilts 
1.2.2 X-MasTrees                      1.1                                               1.1          30    unis
1.2.3 Casing                          1.4                                               1.4          36      kIn
1.2.4 Tubing                          6.5                                               6.5         790      kn
1.2.5 Acussories/Liners               0.2                  _      1_                    0.2                         I
13 1nfrst-cture                       43.8                                              43.8
1.3.1 Line Pipe                      37.0                                              37.0         576      bln
1.3.2 Fittings and Valves             4.0                                               4.0        3.955    unls
1.3.3 Matering Eauipme                2.9                                               2.9           S    unts
1.4PumpingEquipment                   35.1                                              35.1
.1.4.1 Rod Pumps                      2.6                                               2.6         174    units
1.4.2 ESP Pumps & Cable              32.5                                              32.5         362    wnits
1.4.3 Assoc. Punwing EquiP.
1.5 Processng Equipmen
1.5.1 Euinmenm_                                                                                             units
1.6 Environmental EquIpmt              4.5                                               4.5
1.6.1 Spill Equipmen                 2.2                                                2.2
1.6.2 Labs and Montoring              1.7                                               1.7
1.6.3 Pilot C1anup Ecuim=t            0.7                                               0.7
1.7 Support Eqidpment                 13.6                                               13.6
1.7.1 Office Equipment                5.0                                               5.0
1.7.2 Workshop Equip.                 8.0                                               8.0              units
1.7.3 CanmumVelides                   0.6                                               0.6           3 uits
1.8 Mgsceflaneous Equipment            7.2         3.0                                   10.2
. Commodides                             1.7                                               1.7
2.1 Drill Bits                         I.7                                                1.7         360    unks
2.2 Chemicals                                                      Itns
. Services                                          21.6                                  21.6
3.1 Well Services                                  8.6                                   8.6
3.2 Rig Services                                   12.5                                  12.5
3.3 Pipe Layint Services                           0.5                                   0.5
Consulting                                          8.5                                   8.5
4.1 Technical Assistance                           5.5                                   S.S
4.2 Field Studv T.A.                                3.0                                  3.0
. Lcal Costs                                                                 35.4         35.4
5.1 Crews                                                                    8.6         8.6
5.2 Infrastuctu                                                             25.5        25.5
S.3 Enm. & Manautement                                                       1.2         1.2
. Lcal Transport
. Import Duties                                                               17.9        17.9
8. Physical Contingencies
. Fiancing Costs                                                              11.7        11.7
10. Total                               126.9        33.1                                 225.0
Cmwnlatl   E   a Fanin                126.9       160.0        160.0 
07:32 PM - 06109194



118                                                 Aun.zki@
Page 4 of 4
RUSStIASEC= Q__EA=l=PQC
E%lCIARRMNE AR
Yuganskneftegas                                     (Uss milio)
Project Elements                         IBRD--             ECA's        PA's         Total      Quandity      Units
._____ _ . CD         -er                                 Cost          _-
1. Equipnmeat & Materials              137.3          3.0                                140.3
1.1 Rip                              36.7                                              36.7
1.1.1 Drill Rig Purchase            18.0                                              18.0           2    units
1.1.2 Drill Rig Equipment          8.7                                               8.7
1.1.3WorkoverRfs                    10.0                                              10.0I         10    units
1.2 Wel Materials                    26.4                                              26.4 I
1.2.1 Wellheads                      1.6                                               1.6          40    units
1.2.2 X-MasTrees                     1.8                                               1.8          50    units
1.2.3 Casing                        14.1                                              14.1         310    Icn
1.2.4 Tubing                         9.0                                               9.0        1,107    klm
1.2.5 Accessories/Liners
13 1nrsrtn                           3.4                                               3.4
1.3.1 Line Pipe                                                                                             Ian
1.3.2 Fittings and Valves            1.5                                               1.5       1,450    units
1.3.3 Materirhu Equipnle _           1.9                                               1.9 1.9       3    unih
1A4 Purgpiqglpment                  49.9                                              49.9
1.4.1 RodPumps                                                                            Iunits
1.4.2 ESP Pumps & Cable             49.9                                              49.9         616    wnits
1.4.3 Asso. jUmping Eguip.__                                                           __
1.5 Prcsig  EquiipmentI
I.S.1 E_uipme__ .                                                                                          units
1.6 Environmental Equipment           3.9                                               3.9
1.6.1 SPill Eqipenlem                2.3                                               2.3
1.6.2 Lals and Monitoring            0.9                                               0.9
1.6.3 Pilot Cleanup E4uimin          0.7                                               0.7
1.7 Sul,pport Equipmenlt              10.2                                             10.2
1.7.1 Office Equipment               5.0                                               5.0
1.7.2 Workshop Equip.                3.7                                               3.7             units
1.7.3 CampslVehicles                 1.5                                               1.5           8 units
1.8 Milaneous Eouipment               6.9          3.0                                  9.9
2. Commodities                           3.1          1.4                                  45
2.1 Drill Bits                         1.7                                              1.7         280    units
2.2 Chemiials                          1.4         1.4                                  2.9         270    tons
3. Services                                         37.0                                  37.0
3.1 Well Services                                 14.5                                 14.5
3.2 Rig Services                                  22.5                                 22.5
3.3 Pioe Laying Services   _
4. COnSUI"ng                                          8.1                                  8.1
4.1 Technical Assiste                              5.1                                  5.1
4.2 Field Study T.A.                               3.0                                  3.0
S. Leoal COStS                                                               32.5         32.5
5.1 Crews                                                                  8.4          8:4
5.2 l    easructur                                                         22.9        22.9
5.3 Ent. & Muaenent                                                         1.2         1.2
6.L#al Transport
7.Import Duties                                                            20.2         20.2
Physical Contingencies
9. Fmancing Costs                                         _       _          14.4        14.4
10. Total                           140.4        49.6         9           67.1        257.1
Cumulative External Financin*        140.4        190.0       190.0
07:32 PM - OC/09/94



119
Annex 6-1Q
Page 1 of 15
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SU ARY
I. OVERVIEW
1.    Despite a very well developed body of environmental protection legislation in Russia, there
has been, until recently, relatively little concern for the environmental impacts of oil development
and poor enforcement of this legislation. This has been due to a lack of financial support and access
to up-to-date equipment and services available internationally in the oil and gas industry, as well as
an overriding emphasis in the past on meeting gross production goals to support industrial
investment.
2.    Historic oil and gas activities in Western Siberia have had a very serious impact on all aspects
of the regional ecology (land, forests, rivers, wetlands, groundwater, soil, air). Moreover, pollution
migrating from the region via waterways and atmospheric deposition pose serious problems for other
regions.
3.    Past and present oil and gas operations in the oil fields within the scope of this Project have
significantly affected air quality, soil quality, water quality, ecological resources, and national
minorities in the immediate area of these operations.  The development of the associated
infrastructure (cities, towns, utilities, transportation) has displaced and significantly changed the life
styles of national minorities and displaced fauna and flora.
4.    Oil and gas production operations have released contaLminants to the environment. Releases
to the air include incomplete combustion contaminants due to poor flare design and burning of oil
in pits and spill areas. Venting and fugitive emissions have released hydrocarbon gases to the
atmosphere. Part of oil spilled simply evaporates, adding to the air pollution.
5.    The proposed Project will generally result in improvements to the environment through
actions which will prevent future releases of contaminants to the environment. The proposed Project
is limited to existing oilfields and should not result in incremental negative impacts with the
exception of some increase in flaring of associated gas due to greater oil production. The Project
also presents an ideal opportunity to begin the process of reversing past damage and to initiate better
control of the myriad of environmental problems facing the Producer Associations. The Project will
provide significant equipment, materials, services and training to assist the Production Associations
to plan and execute future remediation projects to improve environmental conditions.
6.    Environmental conditions in the oil and gas production operations of Western Siberia will
require many projects of this type. It will also take time to reverse the trend of enviromnental
degradation and attain realistic objectives for repairing past and present practices. As it is, the
initiatives of this Project will only cover a relatively small part of the territory of Western Siberia.
But it is important to see it as the start of a much larger effort at improvement. Initiating these
improvements can have a dynamic impact on the solving of environmental problems elsewhere, and
point the way for other programs in the region, thus multip!yina the initial effects.



120
Annex 6-10
Page 2 of 15
H. ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT IN RUSSIA
A. Environmental Legislation in the Russian Federation
7.    The political and legislative basis of new Russian environmental legislation is the Constitution
of the Russian Federation and Constitutions of Republics that are part of Russian Federation.
Development of environmental legislation in Russia is done in three ways:
(a)    Developing modern environmental legislation, taking into account the required
payments for natural resources on the basis of existing complex regulations;
(b)   Integration of environmental considerations in the existing natural resources and
environmental protection legislation; and
(c)   Integration of environmental considerations in economical, financial, administrative,
state, civil, criminal and other branches of legislation.
8.    Proprietorship, use and disposal of land, water, mineral and other natural resources, are
regulated by the basic legislation, codes, laws of the Russian Federation, legislation of Republics,
legal acts of autonomous provinces (Oblasts) and autonomous districts (Okrugs) that are part of the
Russian Federation.
9.    On the federal level the main legislative acts in this field are:
(a)    Law on Enviromnental Protection (1991);
(b)   Main Principles of Forest Legislation (1993);
(c)    Land Code (1991);
(d)   Water Code (1972);
(e)    Law on Mineral Resources (1993); and
(f)    Law on Atmospheric Air Protection, Protection and Use of Animal Resources (1982).
10.   About fifteen new legislative and non-legislative acts of environmental regulation are being
developed at the federal level. These laws will protect certain natural areas, institute land use
legislation, regulate the use of flora and fauna, and integrate the criminal code and environmental
protection laws.
11.   In spite of the progress in creation of environmental legislation, the efficiency of legal
regulation of environmental protection and use of natural resources is rather slow. There is a large
gap between the ecological regulations and practical use of ecological legislative acts, especially in
the sphere of economical activities of industry, including oil and gas industry, construction, energy
and agriculture. The necessity of ensuring practical implementation of enviromnental legislative
demands requires improvement of the legal system, improvement of management, administrative and
policy-making activities and increasing enforcement for environmental legislation violations.



121
Annex 6-10
Page 3 of 15
B. Environmental Protection Authorities in the Russian Federation
12.   State policy on environmental protection and executive agencies to irnplement them was the
exclusive responsibility of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation, disbanded by the
President's Decree in September 1993. A special committee of environmental protection and rational
use of natural resources acted as one of the Supreme Soviet bodies. Now it is supposed that these
functions would be passed to Federal Assembly. Election of its members in the Khanty-Mansiysk
Okrug will be conducted in April 1994.
13.   The Russian Federation Government conducts the state environmental policy, drafts and
implements state environmental programs and plans, coordinates the activities of ministries and
agencies in the Russian Federation for environmental protection. The authority of the Government
also includes the establishment of procedures for development and approval of environmental
standards for emissions and discharges of pollutants into the environment as well as procedures for
setting fees and maximum fee amounts for use of natural resources, environmental pollution, waste
storage and other types of harmful activity.
14.   The Russian Federation Ministry of the Protection of Environment and Natural Resources
(MPENR) is a duly authorized State organ in the area of environmental protection. The Ministry's
functions include:
(a)    Comprehensive management in the area of environmental protection in Russia;
(b)   State control and monitoring of the use and preservation of land, subsoil resources,
surface and ground waters, the atmosphere, forests and other natural resources, and
monitoring the compliance with ecological safety standards;
(c)    General organization and coordination of environmental monitoring and control;
(d)   Approval of standards and regulations, participation in the development of standards
regulating natural resources use and protection of the environrnent;
(e)    Conducting state environmental reviews;
(f)   Issuing licenses for the burial (or storage) of industrial and household wastes,
emissions and discharges of pollutants into the environment;
(g)   Restriction or suspension of activities by enterprises that operate in violation of
environmental protection legislation or licenses for the use of natural resources or in
excess of limits on pollutant emissions and discharges; and
(h)   Lawsuits demanding compensation for damages incurred as a result of violations of
environmental protection legislation.
15.   Functions of specially authorized agencies of the Russian Federation in the area of
environmental protection on the federal level, in the constituent republics, autonomous Okrugs and
territorial units (Krays and Oblasts) are determined in the "Law on Environmental Protection",
adopted 19 December, 1991. The central link in the environmental protection structure in Russia and
the main analytical and coordinating organ in the region is the territorial (republics within the Federal
government, Kray, Oblast, or Okrug) Committee of the Ministry of Environmental Protection which
normally has the following main divisions (departments):



122
Annex 6-10
Page 4 of 15
(a)    Economic regulation of environmental protection.
(b)   State environmental review;
(c)   Analytical laboratories and logistics support;
(d)   State environmental control and monitoring; and
(e)    Mapping of natural resources areas.
16.   Independent municipal and regional committees for environmental protection have been
organized in the cities of Oblast and Kray level. Their functions are coordinated between local
authorities and territorial enviromnental protection committees. In some regions there are also inter-
Regional inspections and committees which coordinate environmental protection and monitoring
activity in several regions. Territorial (Kray and Oblast) Committees for the protection of
enviromnent and natural resources have authority for the following:
(a)    Recording and assessment of natural resources, record keeping of environmentally
harmful sites and enterprises;
(b)   Recording and assessment of the volume of wastes produced during production and
consumption by enterprises within their regions;
(c)   Coordination of environmental protection activity by local authorities, enterprises,
institutions and organizations;
(d)   State environmental monitoring and decision making in regard to restriction,
suspension or termination of operations of facilities which do not meet the
enviromnental protection legislation;
(e)    Conducting the environmental review of the projects implemented in their territory;
(f)    Bans on construction of environmentally harmful facilities; and
(g)   Issuing of permits granting the right to use the environment and its resources, to emit
or discharge harmful substances, or to store wastes.
17.   Local self-government authorities on the region level conduct the following activities in
environmental protection:
(a)   Recording and assessment of the current state of the environment in the areas under
their protection;
(b)   Arrangement of environmental review and state environmental control;
(c)    Recording and assessment of the volume of production wastes at facilities located in
their territories;
(d)   Issuing of licenses for certain types of natural resources use, for emissions and
discharges of harmful substances and for the burial of toxic wastes; and
(e)    Decision making in regard to restriction, suspension or termination of environmen-
tally harmful activities.
C. Environmental Departments in Industry
18.   Environmental departments are often found in industrial enterprises whose activities are
connected with the use and consumption of natural resources and which affect the enviromment.
Their main fimctions include:



123
Annex 6-10
Page 5 of 15
(a)    Verification of compliance of the enterprise activity with plans and measures for
environmental protection and rational use of natural resources,
(b)    Ensuring the compliance with environmental quality stndards, compliance with the
requirements of environmnental protection and orders and instructions of environ-
mental protection authorities;
(c)    Environrmental monitoring and observation of the emissions, discharges and wastes
produced at the enterprises; and
(d)    Collecting, analyzing and updating of data and information of the enterprise activity
in the area of natural resources consumption and environmental pollution.
D. State Environmental Review
19.   State Environmental Review (Gosudarstvennaya ecologicheskaya expertiza) in Russia must
be conducted before any economic decision is made that may have an adverse impact on the environ-
ment. Financing and performance of work related to all prcjects on the territory of the Russian
Federation is permitted only after obtaining a positive statement from the environmental review
authorities of the Russian MPENR.
The State Environmental Review consists of the following stages:
(a)    Preliminary coordination of future activity;
(b)    Review of project site evaluation, documentation, and coordination of conditions for
the use of natural resources; and
(c)    Comprehensive review of feasibility studies and issuing the permit for the use of
natural resources.
20.   The enviromnental review is usually conducted by a specially organized interdisciplinary team
of specialists from scientific and academic institutes, universities, officials from governmental
ministries and agencies and representatives of the public. One can appeal to the court o- court of
arbitration against the conclusions of the expert commission.
21.   On the Federal level the Main State Environmental Review Board (Department) of the
MPENR examines the documentation and conducts the review of feasibility studies and projects for
construction, reconstruction of enterprises and facilities of federal importance (e.g., main oil and gas
pipelines, railways, power and nuclear fuel cycle installaions, defence industry facilities, etc.); and
feasibility studies and projects of the enterprises with foreign investment and other projects for which
implementation can affect the environment of two or more republics within the Russian Federation,
Krays, Oblasts, autonomous regions and bordering states.
22.   The State environmental review of projects at the Republican, Kray, Oblast or local level is
conducted by the review units of the appropriate Committee for environmental protection. Projects
of local significance are those which are financed from local budgets or have limited influence on
the environment of the specific territory.



124
Annex 6-10
Page 6 of 15
E. Environmental Regulations for Oil Production
23.   Regulation for the design and evaluation of industrial activities must also address
enviroamental iinpacts (OVOS). This act is described in the Handbook on Project Definition under
the "Environmental Protection" section for SNiP 1.02.01-85, which is still in force in the Russian
Federation. In addition to this Handbook, OVOS for the oil industry must be determined by methods
recommended by Minnefteprom of the Russian Federation in 1991-1992. According to these
documents, OVOS (environmental impact assessment) must be conducted not only for the developing
areas but for the ecology of the adjoining regions as well (cross-boundary problems). Means to
mitigate or prevent negative consequences in the short-term and long-term perspectives must be
determined. The oil and gas industry OVOS also includes additional investigations concerning the
social consequences, complex environmental impacts, analysis of environmental cleanup and spill
response measures, estimation of risks and order of magnitude and ecological and economical
evaluation of enterprise activities. In general, OVOS corresponds to international standards.
24.   Regulations of Minpriroda (Ministry of Enviromnental Protection) of the Russian Federation
state that the OVOS is to be included in all projects of oil field facilities construction as a part of the
environmental protection section. Moreover, registration of new enterprises or joint-stock companies
must submit data on the technical characteristics of the project and the environmental impacts (a
"mini-OVOS") for State environmental review. During the evaluation of oil and gas facility
environmental impacts, the maximum permissible criteria of different pollutants' influence on the
environment must be taken into account. If approved, environmental certificates are issued which
describe the current environmental situation and identify the necessary environmental actions for all
projects according to the common federal standard.
F. Monitoring of the Environment
25.   Monitoring of the state of the environment in Russia for pollution levels is performed both
by institutions of State environmental control and sometimes on the local level by special departments
of the enterprises. The activity of all State institutions is coordinated by the Minpriroda of Russia,
which is responsible for the common principles of the system of environmental monitoring,
functioning, collection and generalizaton of information (on all levels, including each oblast) from
all areas of activity, and providing the information to the administrative institutions, enterprises and
public. Enterprises can operate under individual agreements with state institutions regarding baseline
information collected in the area of influence of their operations.
26.   The Departments of Minpriroda of Russia provide to the public data on the emissions and
discharges by the enterprises, and observations of nature reserves. They also monitor and coordinate
the reports of nature protection activities of the enterprises which are granted to the statistical
institutions.
G. Administrative Penalties for Noncompliance
27.   On January 1, 1993, the Govermment of the Russian Federation ordered fees for permitted
environmental pollution, waste disposal, and other kinds of hazardous impacts. In accordance with



125
Annex 6-1Q
Page 7 of 15
this Order two kinds of basic fee standards have been established:
(a)    Emissions and discharges of pollutants, waste disposal, and other kinds of hazardous
impacts within the limits of permissible standards; and
(b)   Emissions and discharges of pollutants, waste disposal, and other kinds of hazardous
impacts within the temporarily coordinated standards.
28.   Basic fee standards are established for each pollutant according to the degree of hazard to the
environment and public health.
29.   For some regions and river basins, special coefficients for the basic fee standards are estab-
lished. These factors take into account the ecological factors, natural and climatic features of the
territory, and the significance of natural and social-cultural resources. The coefficients in Tomsk
Oblast range from 1.02 to 1.04, and in Tyumen Oblast from 1.02 to 1.05.
30.   Enterprises have a powerful incentive to maintain pollutant discharges within the standards.
The fees for maximum permissible emissions, equivalent to a discharge permit fee, for discharge of
pollutants and waste disposal are charged at the expense of prime cost of production. Payments for
exceeding permissible levels are charged at the expense of profits to the enterprise. The maximum
fine for environmental pollution in excess of the maximum permissible standards is set as a
percentage of the profits remaining at the associations.
31.   The oil producing associations pay fees for waste storage in mud settling pits in accordance
with the class of hazard for burying substances maximum permissible emissions and discharges.
Penalties for accidental discharges and emissions are also charged.
32.   Negotiation does take place between environmental controlling bodies and industrial
enterprises over the legal basis of penalties, and in some cases the enterprises can pay reduced
amounts for environmental pollution, especially if they take prompt action to localize and mitigate
pollution impacts. However, payments for environmental pollution do not release the Associations
from implementing environmental protection and rational use of natural resources. Associations are
still liable for damage caused to the environment, health and property of citizens, and economic
resources by environmental pollution in accordance with current law.
m. ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS IN WEST SIBERIA AND THE PROJECT AREA
33.   Environmental concerns associated with oil drilling and production in the Western Siberia
region are significant because of the fragile environment, the predominance of wetlands and the
historic lack of concern for the environment. Moreover, poor drainage, large distances and the
harsh climate make it a very difficult area to operate in. Without a firm commitment from the
Producer Associations to properly implement mitigation activities and to carry out effective and
systematic monitoring of environmental and social problems at every stage of oil production and
distnrbution, severe environmental impacts will result. Some of the key Environmental issues



126
Annex 6-10
Page 8 of 15
associated with the oil production in Western Siberia and the proposed Project are discussed below.
34.   SilUs and Leaks:  Most of the pipeline spills in Western Siberia are occurring in the
gathering systems which carry liquid consisting of a mixture of oil, water and gas. This mixture is
moved long distances from the wells to the primary and secondary separating facilities. After
separating oil and gas, the highly corrosive water, often without corrosion inhibitors, is recycled to
the production wells. The recycled water contains bacteria, chlorides, hydrogen sulfide and other
chemicals which are causing extensive damage to the carbon steel pipes. Pipes are being replaced
frequently (every two to three years). The number of leaks in the gathering pipes are alarmingly
high, with several thousand leaks reported every year.  Spills and leaks contribute to the
contamination of surface and ground water throughout the oil producing region. A suitable material
for construction of gathering pipelines and proper construction and operating practices must be found
to minimize the problems of spills and leaks. The Project feasibility studies examined the technical,
environmental and economic aspects of alternate construction materials and operating strategies for
surface facilities. Particular issues included:
(a)    Construction Materials: Potential materials which couicl suitably be used in the highly
corrosive environment in Western Siberia include: fiberglass, titanium, carbon steel
with titanium cladding, cast iron, carbon steel with internal lining and other
materials. The most promising materials from a technical and environmental view
point were found to be fiberglass and internally coated steel pipe. The cost of
titanium pipe was found to be prohibitively high.
Co)    Corrosion Protection: Internal corrosion of pipelines is extensive throughout the
oil/water circuladng lines. External corrosion is also occurring in underground
pipelines due to a lack of adequate cathodic protection. There is a need for pipeline
operators to carry out internal pitting surveys to determine the extent of corrosion in
the pipelines as well as periodic measurement of impressed current. Investigation is
required to determine suitable corrosion inhibitors and bacterial chemical treatment
to minimize corrosion. Use of aeration units could also help in reducing bacterial
formation. The proposed Project includes studies of optimal means for corrosion
protection.
(c)    Design and Constructon: A large number of leaks are occurring not only because
of poor materials of construction but also due to improper design and construction
of the pipelines. Many pipelines are not supported properly and several are damaged
by heavy construction and drilling equipment. A significant number of these pipelines
are floating above water without any support, causing considerable damage. If
permafrost is present special precautions such as proper line insulation will be
required. It is important that design and construction of the pipelines be thoroughly
investigated to determine the optimal strategies for operation in the harsh environment
of Western Siberia. A design/build contract will be utilized for pipeline replacement
in Megionneftegas to generate alternate designs.
(d)    Lavout: At present, there are a few primary separator facilities and only one or two



127
Annex 6-10
Page 9 of 15
secondary separator facilities to recover oil from a mixture of oil, gas and water.
These facilities are located several miles from the oil wells. Millions of gallons of
corrosive water, mixed with oil and gas, are recirculated daily through carbon steel
pipes to the separating facilities located far from the oil production facilities.
Rationalization of the overall system is required to reduce the length of recirculating
water pipes and thereby minimize leakage throughout the region. These issues will
be investigated under the Field Optimization studies but should also be addressed in
a preliminary manner during the feasibility studies for linepipe reconstruction.
(e)    Automation: Automation of separators and oil field facilities is important to mnimize
operating problems and emergency shut-off in the event of accidents. Automation
will also improve production rates.
35.   Minimization of Well Pad Extensions and Roadways:  In the proposed Project, the oil
production activities are already well established, therefore, the nature of any unique environmental
concerns are usually well known and appropriate operating procedures established. Nonetheless,
particular attention should be focused on minimizing gravel pad extensions and new roadway
development and maximizing use of existing wells, roads, and facilities in order to avoid further loss
of wildlife habitat. The use of horizontal wells in the Project will minimize the need for new well
pads as these wells can be drilled from existing pads.
36.   Sand Dredging: Sand is used for road beds, well-pads and oil spill management. The sand
is normally dredged from large water bodies, especially along river banks. This practice has
disrupted fish breeding and increased the amount of suspended solids in water. According to the
Ministry of Environmental Protection, dredging is prohibited in most areas except those which are
specially designated for this purpose, so that the fish breeding will not be disturbed.
37.   Air Pollution: A large share of the gas associated with oil production in Russia is burnt in
large flare pits. This large scale flaring releases a significant amount of greenhouse gases and
particulate matters to the atmosphere. Oil pipeline accidents also contribute to air pollution because
the oil spill and leaks have historically been burned, producing significant amounts of harmful
emissions. These releases create health and safety concerns to the local and regional population,
contribute to the reduction of vegetation, forests and other natural resources, and contribute to global
warming. Due to the extreme cold climate, thermal plumes from open pit flaring may not rise high
enough to be dispersed quickly into the atmosphere. Acid gases (sulfur and nitrogen oxides) could
remain at the ground level producing harmful acids (sulfurous, sulfuric, nitrous and nitric acid) when
in contact with water. These acids are precipitated in the form of acid rain causing significant
damage to the enviromnent. This problem can be partly overcome by appropriate flare system
design. Gas flaring is a major concern in only one of the PA's in the Project, Tomskneft. The other
PA's have lower gas content or already dispose of approximately 90% of associated gas to the gas
network. One of the Project components in Tomskneft is a study to determine alternate uses for
associated gas and improved flare design. Air emissions from discrete sources in the three
Associations during 1992 is given in the Table below.



128
Annex 6-10
Page 10 of 15
Table 1
Air Emissions from Discrete Sources in 1992
(Metric Tona per year)
Production Association
Polutant           Megionneftegas      Yuganskneftegas       Tomskneft
Sulphurous anhydride                   288                726                 200
Carbon monoxide                     10,963              15,919            128,110
Nitrogen oxides                        489               1,072              1,917
Hydrocarbons                        23,919             183,027             49,671
Particulate matter                     332               1,962              5,426
38.   In addition to air pollution from discrete sources, volatile organic compounds enter the
atmosphere from valves, regulators and flanges on pressure-raising pump stations of oil wells, gas
well testers, and separators on group measuring devices. No estimates on fugitive emissions of
volatile organic compounds is available. Evaporation losses occur from areas where oil is open to
the atmosphere, which includes oil-water separators, storage areas, transfer points, pumps, and spills.
39.   Water Pollution: The proposed Project will cause a net decrease in water pollution. More
than half of the oil fields area consists of surface water. Gathering system pipelines routinely cross
lakes, rivers, streams, marshes and swamps. Many of the gathering system leaks occur in surface
waters. By reducing the number of gathering system leaks by replacing the old pipe with newer and
improved pipe, the number of leaks will be significantly reduced in the Producer Associations. The
reduction of pipeline accidents in these Associations due to replacement of linepipe is estimated to
reduce oil spilled by approximately 0.9 million tons per year. Further, the environmental study
components of the project will be used to improve well site techniques, cleanup capabilities,
remediation and monitoring so that oil releases into the environment are better controlled and
minimized.
40.   hnproved well site technology envisioned by the Project should also include improved waste
handling technology to contain and process the wastes associated with oil drilling. At present, the
Producer Associations would not meet standards for cleaning well site wastes found in the drilling
operations in other countries, such as Canada and the United States. Even without new technology,
the Associations could do a better job of cleaning well site wastes just by exercising more care and
concern with the fate of these wastes.
41.   Effects on Flora and Fauna: Oil field development in taiga and tndra environments is
disruptive to wildlife. The well pads, roads, pipelines, heavy vehicles, drilling rigs and noise cause
animals to abandon the zones near the oil fields and seek new areas to live. Since neither taiga nor
tundra are highly productive in terms of bioniass, there is great competition for what little biomass
is produced. Thus, removal of native vegetation for roads, well pads or other infrastructure is



129
Annex 610
Page 11 of 1S
detrimental to wildlife. Further, spills which are either buried by sand or burned eliminates wildlife
habitat. Often the fires used to clean up oil spills are unattended and the fire goes beyond the spill
area. Unlike more temperate zones, the vegetation in Western Siberia does not grow quickly, so
replacement of deslroyed vegetation takes a long time.
42.   Most of the wildlife within the oil fields of the Producer Associations has already left the
areas of intense development. Since the Project will not support drilling in new oil fields, the
negative effects on wildlife will not be significant. The negative effects have already occurred and
the Project should not add to the existing problems.
43.   Some of the damage to wiidlife is caused by illegal hunting by oil field workers. The Project
should not cause a significant increase in oil field workers so the level of poaching should remain
essentially the same. Managers in the Producer Associations are also becoming increasingly aware
of the damage that oil development has caused in these fragile northern environments. Many of the
labor force, especially at management levels, are beginning to make Western Siberia as a permanent
home. If this trend continues, there will be more effort made on preserving or conserving natural
resources while producing oil. NGOs, are also playing an inportant role in increasing environmental
awareness all across Russia, including Western Siberia.
44.   Native vegetation is destroyed for access roads and well pads. If the disruption were limited
to these areas, the losses could be considered acceptable. However, it is not a common practice in
any of the three Producer Associations to limit transportation to defned access roads or to maintain
the access roads to international standards. As a result, vehicle tracks are found all over the oil field
and between fields instead of being limited to one path. If the access road washes away in ont, spot,
vehicles just swerve aside widening the destruction rather than repairing the road. Because the
vegetation grows so slowly, these vehicle tracks persist for years or decades. As in the case of the
mismanagement of the well site sump wastes, simple carelessness is mostly responsible for the poor
environmental conditions related to access roads. During the winter when the ground and surface
water is fully frozen, it is just too easy to travel cross country rather than limiting vehicle movement
to defined routes.
45.   Erosion and Revegetation: Uncontrolled water runoff in Western Siberia is the most important
cause of erosion. Any new construction should avoid or minimize erosion and disturbance of
vegetation. There is a need for erosion control guidelines to protect the pipelines from damage.
Continued maintenance of access roads and the work pads is also required to prevent erosion. After
performing remediation and cleanup of spills revegetation should be carried out to restore the area
to near its original condition. Pilot clean-up programs in the Project will attempt to identify optimal
strategies for future clean-up operations in the Associations.
46.   Indi2zenous People: Although the Project as defned will not increase encroachment in the
traditional areas of the approximately 125 indigenous people living near to the Project area, it is
important to underscore the damage that has already been inflicted on indigenous populations by the
oil and gas industry in Western Siberia so as to emphasize the need to be concerned that more
damage is not inadvertently passed on to these long-suffering project area residents.



130
Annex 6-10
Page 12 of 15
47.   The indigenous people of Western Siberia (the Khanty, the Mansi and the Nents) who
comprise just under 1 % of the population of the region, have been significantly affected by oil
operations over the past three decades. These seasonally migrating people depend completely or to
a large degree on renewable natural products from the taiga and tundra ecosystems. Their large
domestic reindeer herds require a vast undisturbed grazing area in order to survive. The reindeer
depend on lichens that are very sensitive to both air pollution and oil spills and transportation
infrastructure. The indigenous people also derive a large amount of protein from fish and other
wildlife sources. In addition to nutrition, clothing and housing, the natural products from these
sensitive ecosystems also provide important sources of income for the local people. Inflows of
foreigners, starting in the 16th century and accelerating with oil development in the early 1960s, has
also had adverse social effects on the local populations such as exposure to new diseases, alcoholism
related to predatory trading practices of outsiders, the process of urbanization and the destruction of
natural habitats, with the associated declines in the renewable resource base.
48.   In the Khanty-Mansiiskii Autonomous District about 100,000 tons of oil and oil products have
been spilled over 200,000 hectares of fishing grounds. In the process, 17,700 hectares of fish
sp!,wning grounds have been polluted, spoiling 28 spawning rivers. The immense and vitally
important Ob' River is badly polluted, with concentrations of some harmful substances being 25 to
30 times in excess of admissible levels. During summer months in the district, over 300 fires per
month are commonly recorded. These fires, often caused by flared gas or burning oil spills, destroy
woodland and grazing areas of lichens and mosses which are vital to successful reindeer rearing.
Over II million hectares of reindeer grazing lands (out of an original 22 million hectares) have been
withdrawn in Western Siberia for oil and gas production. Over 17 million hectares of hunting lands
have been seriously compromised through oil and gas production. The three Producer Associations
are located in the traditional hunting and fishing areas.
49.   These losses have dealt a severe blow to the indigenous economy. Reindeer herds of over
one thousand individuals have been reduced below 100 survivors. Fish catches have been seriously
reduced and wildlife has disappeared from a large part of the region. Compensation for these losses
is irregular and questionable when it occurs, often in the form of providing low quality housing,
snowmobiles, schools and medical facilities. The oil and gas industry has not seen it necessary to
offer employment to local people as a form of compensation. In short, the indigenous people have
borne severe economic penalties while the benefits have accrued to distant urban populations.
50.   To some degree, the Producer Associations recognize the needs of the indigenous populations
and attempt to assist in meeting those needs. Unfortunately, their investment programs aimed at
indigenous people are unfocussed and have had little long term positive im 'acts. Nonetheless,
communication between the Associations and the indigenous populations is not unidirectional. The
local populations are not hesitant to make their views clear to the management of the Associations
and to local govermnent but the net result has been limited. The political power of the indigenous
populations has been increasing as a result of international, national and regional meetings concerning
the rights of indigenous peoples and may increase further through new legisLation. Local NGOs bave
also begun to articulate the special needs of indigenous peoples. In April 1992, Presidential Decree
N397 was signed which placed particular emphasis on protection of the rights and interests of
national minorities of the North in order to preserve and develop their traditional forms of living,



131
Annex 6-10
Page 13 of 15
as well as to ensure enviromnental safety in the areas of industrial development. Indigenous
communities are being granted a preferential right to obtain licenses to use natural resources in the
places of their traditional activities (approximately 50% of the land in the region) although they do
not possess formal documents defining these boundaries and in the autonomous regions the question
of ownership has not been fully resolved. The indigenous people have also been granted preferential
access to a portion of the shares of the oil companies to be privatized, but the means are yet to be
established.
51.   It is clear that the past, present and future well-being of the Khanty and Mansi peoples are
intimately intertwined with development of the oil sector. The past is a sad and sorrowful tale of
exploitation. The present shows some important improvements with the creation of exclusive
traditional grazing and hunting areas and an increased sensitivity to the needs of indigenous people.
New and protective legislation is expected to provide the indigenous people with more protection if
the legislation is adopted and enforced. The future will show even greater improvement if the
Producer Associations take a more active role in assisting in the economic development of the
indigenous populations. A mitigation plan has been prepared to give greater protection to the natural
resources so necessary in the traditional economy. The Project can not be expected to atone for all
the past impositions that the industry has inflicted on indigenous populations, but a serious effort
must be made to ensure that no further damage occurs to further jeopardize the livelihood of the local
people. It is also vital that the Producer Associations make greater effort to seek the counsel of the
people which are most directly affected by oil field activities and employ people who are sensitive
to tribal cultures and economies. The Project will include technical assistance (approximately 4
person-months of an international specialist and 8 person-months of local experts) to support the
Associations in developing and implementing programs to safeguard the interests of indigenous
people in the region. In addition, a proposed EU funded program is under consideration to help
develop a regional action plan for improving the living conditions of national minorities.
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION, MONITORING AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE
52.   The proposed Project includes a number of operational measures to reduce the impact of
drilling and production activities on the environment. In addition, a significant program of direct
technical assistance, training and equipment provision is planned to improve environmental
management and mitigation capabilities in each Association. One element of these programs will
development of comprehensive Emergency Response plans to deal with oil spills, fires and other
emergencies associated with oil production and transmission including provision of proper equipment
and personnel training. Air, water and oil monitoring programs around the oil fields, water
recirculating lines and separators facilities will be developed through training and equipment
provision. Studies will be undertaken and programs developed to minimize oil spills, notably through
reducing the incidence of pipeline corrosion. Finally, pilot clean-up programs will be undertaken
to identify opfimal strategies for future cleanup of past oil spills, which, across in Western Siberia,
will be a major task likely requiring hundreds of millions of dollars. The environmental management
program is oudined below and the estimated cost of each component summarized in Table 2.



132
Annex 6-10
Page 14 of 15
(a)    Environmental Cleanup and Emergency Spill Response
(i)   development of emergency response plans and provision of environmental
cleanup and spill response equipment and training to respond to crude oil
releases on land and water and to clean up mud pits and soils.
(b)    Environmental Monitoring
(i)   installation of field sampling and monitoring equipment and stationary and
mobile (truck-mounted) laboratory analysis equipment to monitor
environmental impacts and undertake environmental analyses;
(ii)   development of operations manuals for use of the equipment; and
(iiii)  baseline studies of fields covered under the Project and establishment of
geographical information system database.
(c)    Spill and Pipeline Corrosion Prevention
(i)   provision of mobile laboratory for corrosion assessment and undertaking of
a program of internal corrosion sampling and analysis including material
samples, produced water samples and produced gas samples;
(ii)   studies to determine optimal corrosion inhibitors, corrosion-resistant materials
and liners; and
(iii)  assessment of optimal field design to mininize lines exposed to corrosion
from formation waters.
(d)   Pilot Clean-up and Mitigation Programs
(i)   implementation of pilot clean-up programs to identify optimal techniques for
remediation and revegetation under local conditions;
(ii)   assessment of alternate types of gas flare design and installation of
experimental flare systems (Tomskneft and Yuganskneftegas); and
(iii)  study of alternate uses for low pressure associated gas including thermal soil
remediation units.
(e)    Environmental Management Planning. Development and Training
(i)   development of environmental management and training plans according to
commonly accepted Russian and international standards for environmental
management;
(ii)  technical assistance to support development of programs to safeguards the
interests of indigenous peoples in the region; and
(iii)  training in environmental management at the Production Association and
NGDU level.



133                           Ann-x  0-1i0
Page 15 of 15
Table 2: Costs of Proposed Environmental Protection Programs
(US$ thousands)
Category           Yugansk-      Tomskneft    Megion-        Total
neftegas                   neftegas
Environmental Cleanup and Spill
Response Equipment & Training    2,150       2,450        2,400       7,000
Monitoring, Lab Analysis and Training
Chemical Laboratory           300            650          500          1,450
Mobile Laboratory          __- 600                        300           900
Baseline Data / GIS           200            170           150          520
Total Monitoring         500           1,425         950        2,870
Corrosion Inhibition          400            - 0 -        - 0 -         400
Corrosion Laboratory          500            300           400         1,200
Total Spill Prevention &        900           300           400        1,600
Monitoring
Pilot Program 
Remediation/Revegetation      800            800          800          2,400
Flare Assessment              200            70           -0-            270
Total Pilot Program       1,000         870          800         2,670
Environmental Management and
Training Plan                   200           200          200           600
MiscelLaneous                _   _._._-_-_                           _  _
Program Management              170           170           170           510
Translation                     80             80           80            240
Total Miscellaneous      250            250          250           750
Total Project Cost      5,000          5,490        5,000       15,490



134
Annex 7-1
Page I of 6
RUSSIA SECOND) OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    The key assumptions used in the economic evaluations are listed below. Pages 3 and 4
summarize the economic results by Association and component while Page 5 summarizes the
sensitivity analyses by field. Project cost details are provided on Page 6 and in Annex 6-3 (Project
Costs) and Annex 6-7 (Procurement Arrangements).
A. Project Benefits
2.    Project net present values are based on a IS % real discount rate.
3.    Economic benefits are based on Urals Blend oil prices of $113 per ton ($15.5 per barrel
Europe Mediterranean) less port handling and transport costs of $19 per ton (covering 3500 km)
from West Siberia to the Black Sea and tanker transport to Europe assumed to total $5 per ton. No
real price changes have been included in the base evaluations. Evaluations have been carried out for
a range of crude oil prices from $12.5 per barrel to $18.5 per barrel over the life of the Project.
4.    Incremental production estimates are based on recent well histories. A 50% productivity
improvement has been assumed for wells with less than 10 tons per day production prior to shutdown
due to lowering of sub-surface pumps, recompletion and stimulation services. Productivity gains for
higher yield wells have not been assumed. A 10% failure rate on workovers (incorporated as an
average 10% loss of production per well) has been assumed to reflect potential abandonment of
complicated operations.
5.    Production decline is estimated to be 20% per annum for new wells for the first two years
then 10% per annum thereafter with a productive life of 10 years requiring minor workovers
($72,000) every two years.
B. Project Costs
6.    Workover times, based on international workover rigs using Russian crews, are estimated
to average 10 days over the Project life. Workover rig purchase costs include six months of training
and advisory services. Drilling rig costs include foreign advisors throughout the Project life. Two
years of an assumed 5 year rig amortization period have been assigned to Project costs.
7.    Workovers are generally assumed to require replacement of tubing, pumps and require
logging, cementing, perforation and simple stimulation services. Approximately two-thirds of the
specialized well services are assumed to be carried out by the Association or local contractors. Local
well services (cementing, logging, perforation) have been assumed to cost one-third of international
prices on average. New horizontal wells require MWD services in addition to those listed above.
8.    Workovers are assumed to require some rehabilitation of roads, well pads and power
facilities. The total cost of these services and other local costs are estimated to total just over 20%



135
Annex 7-l
Page 2 of 6
of the overall workover cost. New wells are assumed to require I km of hard roads and 4 kan of
soft roads plus 5 1an of 6 kV power lines for every 4 wells. The local cost component of new wells
is estimated to total just under 15% of the total cost.
9.    Equipment inspection and transport costs are estimated to total 12% of equipment costs based
on cost estimates from the First Oil Rehabilitation Project and current and proposed projects
undertaken by international oil companies.
10.   Variable operating costs, in addition to minor workovers, are estimated to average
approximately $18 per ton produced based on an assumed 30% real increase in current operating
costs over the near term.



136
Page 3 of 6
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
(million tons per annum and millions end 1993$)       Total Project
Total  1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
1     2       3      4      5      6       7      8      9      10     11
Operations (Year 1)
Wells Completed            1137   1137
Oil Production             30.9    2.8    4.8    4.1    3.7    3.3    3.0    2.7    2.4    2.2    2.0
Gross Production           190.8    9.3   17.4   16.5   16.4   16.7   17.3   18.5   20.6   24.6   33.4
Operations (Year 2)
Wells Completed             998           998
Oil Production             27.2            2.4    4.2    3.6    3.2    2.9    2.6    2.4    2.1    1.9    1.7
Gross Production           167.5           8.2   15.3   14.5   14.4   14.7   15.2   16.2   18.1   21.6   29.41
Total Production
Wells Completed            2134   1137    998
Oil Production             58.1    2.8    7.2    8.3    7.3    6.6    5.9    5.3    4.8    4.3    3.9    1.7
Gross Production          358.3    9.3   25.6   31.8   30.9   31.1   32.0   33.7   36.8   42.7   55.0   29.4
Capital Costs
Rigs                       64.6   34.4   30.2
Well Costs                252.9  134.7  118.2
Facilities/ Infrastructure  77.7   41.4   36.3
Services Contract          62.2   33.1   29.1
Services Local                      12 31
Total Capital Costs        528.1  281.2  246.9
IOperatiog Costs
Workovers (per 2 yrs)       451                  56.4   56.4   56.4   56.4   56.4   56.4   56.4   56.4
Variable O&M Gross          932   44A    ll I  U33 1  i171  15O    24.2 9,      A   76-2   62.2   62.2   22
Total Operating Costs       1,383   44.4  115.5  189.5  173.6  161.8  151.3  141.8  133.3  125.6  118.7   27.7
Economic Evaluation
Total Costs                 1,911  325.6  362.4  189.5  173.6  161.8  151.3  141.8  133.3  125.6  118.7   27.7
Totao Benefits             5,183  247.2  642.6  740.2  651.6  586.5  527.8  475.0  427.5  384.8  346.3  153.9
Net Benefits               3,272  (78.5  280.2  550.7  478.1  424.6  376.5  333.2  294.3  259.2  227.6  126:2
Net Present Value           1,531                                                  Cil Value       SJbbl  S/ton
Benefit-Cost Ratio           2.4                                                    Brent           $16.5  $120
UTC Total Costs              $37           $5.1 ($/barrel)                          QurI Discount  $1.0    $7
UTC Capital Costs            $15           $2.0 ($/barrel)                          Tanker          $0.8    $5
Port            $0.5    $4
Value of Oil ($/ton)         $89          $12.3 ($/barrel)                          Pipeline                $11
Discount Rate (real)        15%                                                     Net Welhead    $12.3   $89



137                                            Annex 7_1
Page 4 of 6
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION SUMMARY
(million tons per annum and millions end 1993S)
Project                    Project   BIC   UTC  Opex Prodi. IWorkove In-fill Pipeline Capex  Prodn. Prodn.   NPV
Code   Ratio  $/ton   $/ton Avg. tpd   #     #     km   $1Oper.   Total  Peak  $ mn
NW Megion In-fill              1    2.0   $44    $22       90              4           2.30    0.6    0.1       16
Main Megion In-fill            2     1.8   $48    $20      72             10           2.30     1.3    0.2      27
SE Megion In-fill              3    2.2   $41    $19       90              8            2.30    1.3    0.2      30
Megion Workovers               4    2.2   $41    $29        14     38                  0.23     1.1    0.2      27
Megion Pipeline                5    2.2   $40    $18        3                    150   0.08    0.9    0.1      22
Total Megion Field              6    2.1   $43    $21        13                                  5.3    0.8    122
7
Pokamasovskoye In-fill         8    2.9   $31    $18       84             54            1.32    9.1    1.3   268
Pokamovskoye Workovers         9    2.6   $34    $24        18     37                   0.24    1.5    0.2      40
Pokamovskoye Pipeline         10    2.0   $45    $17        2                    105   0.08    0.5    0.1       10
Total Pokamovskoye Field       11    2.8   $32    $19       28                                  11.0    1.6   318
Total Megion PA                12    2.5   $36    $20       20                                  16.3    2.3    440
13
Sov. ESPWorkover              14    2.2   $41    $27       14    117                   0.26    3.5    0.5       84
Sov. Rod Pump Workover        is    1.9   $47    $27        7      58                  0.18    0.9    0.1       19
Sov. Horizontal Well          16    2.8   $32    $20       75              4            1.11    0.6    0.1      18
Sov. Pipeline                 17    3.1   $29    $17        4                    263   0.07    2.3    0.3    71
Total Sovietskoye Field        18    2.4   $37    $24        8                                   7.3    1.0   191
19
Per. ESPWorkover              20    2.2   $40    $27       14    117                   0.24    3.5    0.5    851
Per. Rod Pump Workover        21    2.0   $45    $27        7      58                  0.16    0.9    0.1      20
Per. Horizontal Well          22    2.5   $3;    $20       75              3            1.39    0.4    0.1      13
Per. Pipeline                 23    3.1    $_9    $17       5                    141   0.08     1.4    0.2     44
Total Pervomaiskoye Field      24    2.3       8    $25      9                                   6.2    0.9    161
25
Vahk. ESP Workover            26    2.2   $40    $27       14    117                   0.24    3.5    0.5      85
Vahk. Rod Pump Workover       27    2.0   $46    $27        7      58                  0.17    0.9    0.1      20
Vahk. Horizontal Well         28    2.6   $34    $20       75              4            1.25    0.6    0.1      18
Vahk. Pipeline                29    2.5   $36    $17        4                    173   0.10     1.5    0.2    41
Total Vahkskoye Field          30    2.2   $40    $25        8                                   6.5    0.9    162
Total Tomskneft PA             31    2.3   $39    $24        8                                  19.9    2.8    514
32
Mam. Workover                 33    2.4   $38    $27       14    476                   0.20    14.1    2.0    363
Mam. Horizontal Well          34    1.9   $48    $17       45             24           1.55     1.9    0.3     41!
Mam. Pipeline                 35                                                  0
Total Mamantova Field          36    2.3   $39    $25       15                                  16.0    2.3    404
37
Sre. W/O Fracturing           38    2.7   $33    $21       23    100                   0.28    3.7    0.5    106
Sre. Horizontal Well          39                                           0
Sre. Pipeline                 40                                                  0
Total Srednye Asomkiniskoye F  41    2.7   $33    $21       23                                   3.7    0.5    106
42
Pri. Workover                 43                                   0
Pri. Horizontal Well          44    2.7   $33    $13       90             16           1.87    2.3    0.3      68
Pri. Pipeline                 45                                                  0
Total Prirazlomnoye Field      46    2.7   $33    $13       90                                   2.3    0.3     68
Total Yu_nskneft PA            47    2.4   $37    $23       18                                  21.9    3.2   577
48
otal Pro3ect                   49    2.4   $37    $23       13                                  58.1    8.3  1,531



138
AnnesA
Page 5 of 6
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC SENSITIVTY
Beefit-Cost Ratios
Scenario -                       Meonnefteps             Tom_ ntY tnll
Total Me8ion Pokom.  Total Sov.   Per.    Vahk  Total  Mamo  Sre.    Pri.
Base Case                    1    2.5   2.1   2.8   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.2   2.4    2.3   2.7   2.7
LowOilPrice$13.5/bbl        2    1.9   1.6   2.1    1.7   1.8   1.8   1.7   1.8    1.7   2.0   2.0
Median Oil Price $16.51bbl  3    2.5   2.1   2.8   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.2   2.4   2.3   2.7   2.7
High Oil Price $19.5/bbl    4    3.1   2.6   3.5   2.9   3.0   2.9   2.8    3.0    2.9   3.4   3.4
Capital Costs (Base)        5    2.5   2.1   2.8   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.2   2.4    2.3   2.7   2.7
Capital Costs +25%          6    2.2   1.8   2.5   2.1   2.2   2.1   2.0   2.2    2.1   2.5   2.3
Capital Costs +50%          7    2.0   1.7   2.3   2.0   2.0   2.0   1.9   2.0    1.9   2.3   2.1
Capital Costs +100%         8    1.7   1.4   2.0   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.6   1.7    1.7   2.0    1.7
Operating Costs             9    2.8   2.3   3.1   2.6   2.7   2.7   2.5   2.7    2.6   3.1   2.9
Operating Costs +25% (Base)    10    2.5   2.1   2.8   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.2   2.4   2.3   2.7   2.7
Operating Costs +50%        11    2.2   1.9   2.5   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.0   2.1    2.0   2.4   2.5
Production +0% (Base)       12    2.5   2.1   2.8   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.2   2.4    2.3   2.7   2.7
Production -10%             13    2.4   2.0   2.6   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.1   2.2   2.1    2.5   2.5
Production -25%             14   2.1    1.7   2.4   1.9   2.0   2.0   1.9   2.0    1.9   2.2   2.2
Production -50%             15    1.6   1.3   1.9   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.4   1.5    1.4   1.7   1.6
Production Decline 10%     16   2.5   2.1   2.8   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.2   2.4   2.3   2.7   2.7
Production Decline 15%      17    2.4   2.0   2.7   2.2   2.3   2.2   2.1   2.3    2.2   2.6   2.6
Production Decline 20%     18   2.3   1.9   2.6   2.1   2.2   2.1   2.0   2.2    2.1   2.5   2.5



139
Annex 7-1
Page 6 of 6
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABELITATION PROJECT
PROJECT PARAMETERS                            -_;_-_
I  Scheduling     Capital Costs per Operation           Operating Costs
Project  Wells Percent of Total  Capex   Rig $  Infras    Services    Workover Opex OpCod&
________________  j _Yr I   Yr2   Cost $  Alloc.  Cost$  Local Contrac. CostS $/ton    1,2.
Tomal Project                   49   2134   53%    47%j    118        30      36     33      29     40    12.8
NW Megion In-fill               1!     4i 100%             1349    628      79      52    190      72  $14.7        2
| Main Megion In-fill           21    10 1  40%    60% 1  1349    628       79      52    190      72  $14.7        2
iSE Megion In-fill              31     81   5%    95%    1349    628        79      52    190      72  $14.7        2
Megion Workovers                41    381  50%    50% :   151        30             51       3     72  $14.7        1
Megion Pipeline                 Si   150   50%    50%                       79                          $14.7       3
Total Megion Field               61   210   42%    58%       169      71      65     15      21     21  $14.7
7
PokamasovskoyeIn-fill           8     541  53%    47%l    745    261        74    127    117       72  $13.3        2
PokamovskoyeWorkovers           9     371  50%    50%I    147        31             50      10     72  $13.3        1
Pokamovskoye Pipeline          10    1051  50%    50%i                      80                          $13.3       3
Total Pokamovskoye Field        11    196|  53%    47%|   233         78      63     44      34     33  $13.3
Total Megion PA                 12    406   49%    51%       200      74     64      29      27     27  $13.7
13       ,
Sov.ESPWorkover                14    1171  50%    50%'   154          8             56      37     72  $13.3        1
Sov.RodPwnpWorkover            15     58:  100%              79       8             56      37     20  $13.3        1
Sov. Horizontal Well           16      41 100%              552    317      76    167              72  $13.3        2
Sov. Pipeline                  17    2631  50%    50%                       66                          $13.3       3
Total Sovietskoye Field         18    442   60%    40%1    56          6     40      24      15     22  $13.3
19
Per. ESP Workover              20    117,  50%    50%       143       8             51      37     72  $13.3        1
Per. Rod Pump Workover         21     58  100%               69       8             51     37      20  $13.3        1
Per. Horizontal Well           22      3;  100%             634    515      78    167              72  $13.3        2
Per. Pipeline                  23    141;  50%    50%                       78                          $13.3       3
Total PervomaiskoyeField        24    319!  61%    39%        71       9     35      29     20      31  $13.3
25
Vahk. ESP Workover             26    1171  50%    50%       146       8             51     371    72  $13.3         1
Vahk. Rod Pump Workover        27     58  100%               71       8             51     371    20  $13.3         1
Vahk. Horizontal Well          28      4  100%              570    434      75    167              72  $13.3        2
Vahk. Pipeline                 29    173   50%    50%                      105                |         $13.3       3
Total Vahkskoye Field           30    352   62%    38%        67       9     52      27      19     28  $13.3
Total Tomskieft PA              31   1112   61%    39%        64       8     43      26      18     27  $13.3
32
Mam. Workover                  33    476   50%    50%       115      13             47     30      72  $13.0        1
Mam. Horizontal Well           34     24   50%    50%       775    379      98      47    250      72  $10.8       2
Ma'n. Pipeline                 35           50%    50%                                                              3
Total Mamantova Field           36    500   50%    50%       147      31      5      47     41      72  $12.7
37
Sre. W/O Fracturing            38    100   50%    50%       138      18             47     74      72  $10.5        1
Sre. Horizontal Well           39           50%    50%                                                             2
Sre. Pipeline                  40           50%    50%                                                  $10.5      3
Total Srednye Asomkiniskoye F   41    100   50%    50%       138      18             47      74     72  $10.5
42
Pri. Workover                  43           50%    50%                                                              1
Pri. Horizontal Well           44     16   50%    50%       860    534    121    107    250        72   $8.8       2
Pri. Pipeline                  45           50%    50%                                                   $8.8      3
Total Prirazlomnoye Field       46      16   50%    50%      860    534    121    107    250        72   $8.8
TotalYuganslueftPA              47    616   50%    50%       164      42      7      48      51     72  $11.7
48l
Totirniject                    49   2134   53%    47%        118     30      36      33     29      40  $12.8



140
Annex 8-1
Page I of 14
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.    The assumptions used in the Project fnancial analyses are outlined below. The Project
components have been evaluated under June 1994 price and tax conditions which are described on
pages 1 to 5. Detailed cash flows for the aggregate Project and a summary of the sensitivity analyses
carried out are shown on the remaining pages.
A. Inflation and Exchange Rate
2.    The facial analyses have been carried out in constant US$ prices. Ruble costs were
converted to US$ using the late 1993 exchange rate of 1,200 R/$ which was considered near
equilibrium. This assumption affects the analyses only to the extent that, if depreciation charges are
not adequately adjusted with inflation, profit taxes will be higher. Rates of return have been based
on discounted real 1993 dollar cash flows with a real after-tax return requirement of 15% assumed.
B. International and Domestic Oil Prices
3.    Prices for Russian oil at the export terminal have been based on a $1 per barrel discount from
Brent less $0.75 per barrel tanker costs from the Black Sea to Europe Mediterranean and $0.5 per
barrel port handling charges'. Forecast prices for Brent in 1995 are $16.5 per barrel implying an
average fob export price for Russian crude oil of $14.25 per barrel or $104 per ton2. No real price
increases have been assumed for the base evaluations. Instead, evaluations have been carried out
within a band of Brent prices from $13.5 and $19.5 per barrel over the life of the Project.
4.    Prices for domestic crude oil sales are assumed to rise from approximately one-half of
international prices in late 1993 to ful parity with international prices by late 1995.
C. Project Capital and Operating Costs
5.    Project capital and operating costs are described in Annex 7-1. Base variable operating costs
of approximately $18 per ton of oil produced ($2.5 per barrel) have been assumed plus payments to
the Social Reserve Fund equal to 40% of salaries ($2.8 per ton). Additional operating costs include:
depreciation charges which are based on project costs, with allowance for revaluation; and minor
/I The average price discount for Urals Blend crude to Brent over the past 5 years has been $1 per barrel. In recent
years the discount has been greater, reflecting uncertainty in Urals delivery and illegal oil sales. Countering this trend
has been an increasing share of higher quality Sibenan crude in the blend which has reduced the discount to Brent.
Limited export sales of West Siberian crude, which sell at near parity to Brent, are also possible.
2/ Source: staff esdmates.



i41
Annex 8-1
Page 2 of 14
workcover costs assumed to be required every two years at a cost of $72,00 per operation3.
6.     The operating costs outlined above do not include capital charges for previous oil
development expenditures. Historically, depreciation charges have significantly underestimated costs
due to the low value of assets on the Producer Association's books. Over the past two years the
Producer Associations have been allowed to revalue fixed assets periodically to reflect price changes.
While this is a positive step it is not clear whether the resulting asset values are realistic. Formal
procedures for asset revaluation under inflationary conditions are part of the proposed changes to Oil
and Gas taxation.
7.     Current operating costs also understate likely longer term  operating costs due to two
additional factors. Social investments, which are typically funded from after-tax income, really
represent labor costs. As social investments such as schools are shifted from the Producers to
municipal jurisdiction, wages will need to rise to cover the local taxes which will be levied to fund
these services. These costs have not been incorporated into the evaluations since this process will
likely occur over an extended period in Western Siberia. The operating costs outlined above also
exclude oil exploration or other finding costs which in 1991 averaged $3 to $5 per barrel of oil found
for internaional oil companies4. Finding costs will be high in Western Siberia due to the distance
from suppliers, harsh climate, limited operating season and difficult terrain.
8.     Total operating costs for Producer Associations operating in Western Siberia are not signifi-
cantly different from international oil company estimates of expected operating costs. The
international oil company estimates are based on substantially higher unit costs for labor, equipment
and materials but greater labor and capital productivity. Valuing Russian labor and other inputs at
international prices would result in production costs of almost $100 per ton. The implication of these
rough estimates is that Russian oil production costs will not only experience adjustment due to
general price escalation but will also undergo significant structural change. As discussed above,
Russian production costs are likely to be high by international standards due to the difficult operating
environment.
9.     Imports of oilfield equipment and materials were exempted from Import Duties in April 1993
under Decree No. 441. However, this exemption was cancelled in January 1994 and Producers are
now expected to pay approximately 15% duties on imported equipment.
10.    Transportation tariffs are now being renegotiated on sections of the former Glavtransneft
system. Transportation costs from West Siberia currently range from approximately $1 per barrel
to $3 per barrel. Port handling charges of approximately $0.5 per barrel are levied. Export agents
3/ Operating costs including current workover and maintenance expenses but excluding social welfare payments are
estmated to be $13-615 per ton ($1.9 per barrel) in late 1993 prices for the three borrowers. Real increases of 30%
have been assumed to occur over the near term. Operating costs for international joint ventures in West Siberia .-ierage
$3 per barrel.
4/ Sources: John S. Herold Petroleum Outlook and DOEIEIA, December 1991 Form EIA-28 Filings.



142
Annex 8-1
Page 3 of 14
charge a 1% commission. An average price of $2 per barrel or $15 per ton has been assumed in
the analysis for the 3,500 kn movement from Western Siberia to the Black Sea plus $0.5 per barrel
($4 per ton) for port handling charges. These prices are expected to remain relatively stable over
the project life.
11.    Project debt service calculations have been based on a Currency Pool Loan with an average
interest rate of 8 % per annum and a term of 10 years with two years grace on principal repayments.
Existing Association debt is small and involves short term revolving credit, denominated in Rubles.
D. Current Price and Tax Conditions
12.   Government decrees in May and Sept. 1992 abolished the early 1992 system of oil sales
(60% at state controlled prices, 30% at free market prices and 10% for export) and replaced it with
a quasi-unified domestic market. Since then the market has continued to liberalize such that all
domestic sales are now negotiated between buyer and seller. The Government has relatively minor
influence on domestic sales, other than through open market purchases for centralized exports. In
April 1994 producers were formally given the right to cut off delinquent customers5 and in
September 1993 price caps related to production costs were abolished. Generally, Producers were
unable to sell oil to the domestic market in 1993 at full (allowed) markup because of customer price
resistance. As a consequence, and due to mounting payment arrears, Producers began to shut-in
production and pull oil from the domestic market. By some estimates 20 million ton of production,
representing 6% of total production, was voluntarily shut-in during 1993.
13.   The Government still exerts pressure on domestic prices through control over access to the
export market. During 1993 Producers were given a base export quota then required to obtain
additional export quotas for particular projects based on a series of Decrees intended to promote
investment6. These incentives are still in place and for which the proposed Project should qualify.
Exports to non-CIS countries in 1993 totalled 80 million tons of which Producers controlled 43
million tons or 12% of production.
14.   Domestic wholesale prices are subject to one key revenue tax; a differentiated Excise tax7
(Decree #847 November 1, 1992 and September 1993). The Excise tax default rate was set at 14,750
Rubles per ton in April 1994 (Resolution N320, April 14, 1994) which was equivalent to
approximately $10 per ton. The tax will be indexed to the Ruble/dollar exchange rate and adjusted
5/ Presidendia' Decree #307, April 8. 1994
6/ Two decrees promulgated by the Government in March 1993 provided export incentives for major oilfield
investment. Resolution #179 allows producers to export incremental production resulting from major rehabilitation and
workover programs, sufficient to recover costs. Resolution #180 provides export quotas for 60% of incremental
production from new field development for the first S years. These exports are also exempt from export taxes (Resolution
#218) and mandatory currency conversion (Resolution #374).
7/ The Price Regulation Fund tax was abolished in mid 1993.



1 43
Annex 8-1
Page 4 of 14
quarterly. It is unknown whether the tax will increase in real terms as the domestic crude oil price
rises to parity with international prices. The tax is also differentiated by field, depending on
production costs. MNG is currently charged 11,000 Rubles/ton (equivalent to approximately $7.3
per ton), while TN and YNG are charged 8,500 Rubles/ton (equivalent to $5.7 per ton). Export
sales are charged Excise tax at the comparable domestic rate.
15.   Royalties under the Law of the Subsoil are set at a minimum level of 8% of gross wellhead
prices with ranges of 6% to 16%.
16.   Producers are subject to two additional revenue taxes; a fee paid to the Geologic Fund for
resource replacement, equal to 10% of equivalent domestic revenues and a 2% royalty paid to the
Ministry of Fuel and Energy Investmnent Fund. As of March 1993 Producers were able to reduce
their payments to the Geology fund where an equivalent amount was spent by the Producer on new
field exploration. New field developments will be exempt from this payment where the developer
has incurred the exploration costs.
17.   Value Added Tax is currently charged at 23 % on all domestic and imported purchases. VAT
paid on capital goods are recoverable 6 months after the asset is put into operation. The net cost of
this tax has been assumed to total 5% of operating costs for the analyses.
18.   A number of other Government Funds which entail mandatory contributions are outlined
below.
(a)    Science Fund, Land Use and Environrment Funds: 5% of the cost of production
(b)   Insurance Fund: 2% of Gross Revenues
(c)    Road Users tax: 0.4% of Gross Revenues.
(d)   Asset Tax: 2% of Net Fixed Assets.
19.   Producers are currently allowed to deduct the full amount of current year investments against
income as a means of reducing profit taxes, subject to a maximum reduction in taxes payable of
50%. However this Investment Fund deduction is likely to be removed in the near term and has not
been included in the analysis.
20.   Current depreciation charges are generally based on a 15 year period. However, a 5 year
period is expected to be introduced shortly for workover rehabilitation investments as a tax incentive.
21.   Balance profit, (defined as net revenues less production costs) was previously subject to a
Profitability Ceiling equal to 50% of production costs but this was abolished in late 1993.
22.   Exports sales were subject to Mandatory Currency Conversion according to Decree #335,
dated December 30, 1991 and Instruction #3 from the Central Bank, dated January 22, 1992. Under
these decrees 50% of export proceeds (net of transport costs) must be sold to the Government at the
market exchange rate. Currency conversion at market rates result in an approximate 1% tax on
revenues due to transaction costs. As of March 1993 oil producers have beein granted exemption
from mandatory currency conversion (Resolution #374).



144
Annex 8-1
Page 5 of 14
23.   Decree #91, dated December 31, 1991, established an Export Tax for crude oil exports which
was initially set at ECU 26 per ton (approximately $35 per ton). The tax is payable in Rubles, 60
days after presentation of oil for customs inspection. This tax was increased to ECU 44 ($60) by
mid 1992, reduced to ECU 21 ($28) in Sept. 1992, increased to the 1993 level of 30 ECU and will
be reduced to 15 ECU/ton by mid 1994. Producers have been granted a credit for this tax where
equivalent investment in oilfield development can be demonstrated (see for example, Resolution
#179) and an exemption until project payout for major rehabilitation and new field investments.
24.   Interest on some long term debt is not currently deductible from income for tax purposes.
This is expected to be modified under changes to Oil and Gas taxation.
25.   In an attempt to dampen wage increases the government requires Associations to add back
wages in excess of 6 tiIne the minimum wage. This penalty results in a 10% increase in taxes
payable.
26.   Losses are available for 5 year carry forward to reduce taxable income. No limitations are
assumed on deductions for particular years.
27.   Under the Profits Tax Law, Income is taxed at a flat rate of 35% to 38% (shared between
federal and local governments).
28.   Exterral profit distribution is subject to a 5% Withholding Tax. This tax does not apply to
domestic producers.
29,   Table 8.1 summnarizes current tax conditions for three categories of oil sales; domestic sales
(85% of total sales), export sales with export tax (2% of total sales) and export sales exempt from
export tax (13% of total sales). Overall tax take (percent of operating profit), excluding the indirect
tax due to price subsidies, is 78% at June 1994 crude oil prices for domestic sales and approximately
70% for export sales. Including price subsidies the take for domestic sales is approximately 90%.
With lower crude oil prices the take increases significantly (over 80% at a price of $13.5 Brent)
reflecting the inflexibility of the current system, which relies primarily on flat revenue taxes. Figure
8.1 summarizes the level and composition of Government take over the past two years. Since early
1992 Govermnent take as a percent of operating profit has declined from well above 100% to tne
current levels.
30.   While the Government take on flowing oil has been reduced to a level which leaves the
Producers with sufficient cash flow to maintain production this is not the case for new oilfield
development. At average excise tax levels, tax take on new fields would result in a real rate of
return well below 15% which is not sufficient to attract major foreign investment. The solution is
to include a flexible, profit sensitive, tax (instead of the Excise Tax) in the license.
E. Payment Arrears
31.   A major financial problem currently facing the industry is payment arrears. Producers were
collectively owed in excess of 6.4 trillion roubles or near US$3.5 billion by end February 1994.



145
Annex 8-1
Page 6 of 14
Table 8.2 summarizes the working capital position of the Producers as of the third quarter of 1993
which shows the dramatic increases in payment arrears from customers (US$620 million) and the
consequent buildup of payables to the Government (USS300 million for budget and non-budget
payments) and suppliers (US$500 million). This problem arises from a number of factors including;
friction in the banking sector which results in 2 to 6 months delay for payment settlement; a dis-
incentive to pay under high inflation conditions; financial difficulties of customers, and until recently,
limited scope for Producers to cutoff customers. Producers are now authorized to cut-off supplies
to delinquent customers but are reluctant to do so for fear of losing market share and due to political
pressure. While producers could face cash flow problems stemming from arrears for a few years,
the ability to cutoff supplies should sharply reduce the arrears problem. Under the export incentives
of Resolution #179 this problem is not a factor for the exportable incremental production from the
proposed Project. Ten year projections of the overall production and cash flow positions for the
Associations are shown in Table 8.6. Even with an assumed 10% revenue loss due to bad debts for
the next two years, the Associations should be in a position to generate sufficient cash flow to at least
maintain production at 1993 levels. This level of cash flow will also provide ample debt service
capacity. Three key risks to near term financial viability are that the Associations are: (i) unable
to control cash flow including, in particular, working capital; (ii) allow operating costs including
wages to rise faster than productivity increases; and (iii) undertake uneconomic investments, wasting
scare funds. The proposed financial advisory services will help the Associations establish strategic
cash management procedures, improve management information systems and develop capital
budgeting procedures and criteria. The proposed Field Optimization Studies will help establish least
cost means for future development of existing fields.
E. Conclusions
32.   The overall after-tax real rate of return for the Project exceeds 40 % and all components show
strong returns. The four key risks to Project viability are oil prices, both international and domestic,
tax levels, access to the export market and well productivity. The overall Project is still viable at
international prices as low as $13.5 (Brent) throughout the Project life although a few components
would not be viable. A 100% increase in the Excise Tax rate can be absorbed at international prices
of $16.5 per barrel although some Project components would not be viable. However, at
international prices of $13.5 per barrel the Project cannot absorb any increases in the Excise Tax.
The Project can sustain productivity declines of 25% from expected levels and still exceed a 25%
rate of return.



146
Anntex 9-1
Russia Petroleum  Taxation                           Table 8-1
Taxation for Upstream  Domestic Sales                            June 94
Domestic Price Stage                        Price        Tax      Comments
l  (R/ton)     Rates %    _
1). Refinery Price Including VAT & Trans.    144,096             1       57%  of Intl. Price (excl VA1)
- VAT                                      22,525        23%  % of Wholesale Price (2)
- Transport                                23,635       $1.62  $/barrel
2). Domestic Wholesale Price            i     27_         97,9351
- Excise Levy (0% to 30%, avg. 18%)        20,935!       21% i of Domestic Wholesale Price (2)
3). Price Before Price Regulation Deduction   77-0!
- Price Regulation Fund (Avg.)
). Supplier's Price (Gross Wellhead)                        8 77o000f l 
- Royalty (6% to 16%, avg. 8%)              6,1601        8%l % of Price before Price Reguladon (3)
- Geology Fund (10%, 5% credit possible) 1  7,7001       10%   % of Price before Price Regulation (3)
- Net VAT                                   1,800         5%   % of Production Cost
- Road Users Tax                              392l      0.4%   % of Wholesale Price (2)
- Social Payments                           1,2001       40%1 % of Wages, 3000 R/ton
- Investment Fund                                              % of Price before PRF (3)
- Insurance Fund                     1      1,540         2%   % of Price before PRF (3)
- Envir./Land/Science Funds          1                    5%   % of Production Cost
5). Sub-Total Govt. Funds and Charges         20,592
- Production Costs                         40.00                      $20.0 per ton
6). Prime Cost                          I                          Govt. Funds (5) plus Production Costs
7a). Balance Profit on Domestic Sales   X     16,408       _     l (4) - (6)
Taxation for Export Sales on Flowing Oil                                -    -
Export Price Stage                          Price        Tax      Comments
I  (RJton)     Rates %                                        I
Exchange Rate (R/$)                            2,000       2,000  month average rate
1). Export Price ($ per ton)                    $107        $107  average of Urals Blend and heavier crudes
- Export Duty                                  18          18  15 ECU/ton, credit for qualified investment.
- Transport                                  $15         $2.1
). Net Export after Export Tax & Trans.        $Z4l
3). Net Export Price in Rubles               148,125l
- Excise Levy (0% to 30%, avg. 18%)        20,935        21%   of equivalent Domestic Price
- Price Regulation Fund                                                                             l
). Supplier's Price (Gross Wellhead)        127.190
- Royalty (6% to 16%, avg. 8%)             11,850         8%   % of Export Price (l)
- Geology Fund (10%, 5% credit possible)    7,700        10%   % of equivalent Domestic Price
- Net VAT                                   1,800         5%   % of Production Cost
- Road Users Tax                             859        0.4%   % of Wholesale Price (2)
- Social Payments                           1,170        39%   % of Wages, 3000 RJton
- Investment Fund                                              % of Price before PRF (3)
- Insurance Fund                            4,295         2%   % of Price before PRF (3)
- Envir./Land/Science Funds                 1             5%   % of Production Cost
5). Sub-Total Govt. Funds and Charges         29,474
- Production Costs                         40$ S20.0 per ton
6). Prime Cost                                                    Govt. Funds (5) plus Production Costs
7b). Balance Profit on Flowina Export Sales  57,715                     $28.9 per ton



147
Annex 8-1
Russia Petroleum  Taxation                            Table 8-1
Taxation for Export Sales on New Oil                                                            (cont.)
!:Export Price Stage                         Price       Tax       Comments
! _______________________                  (R/ton)     Rates   %                                       I
| Exchange Rate (RI$)                           2,000       2.000  month average rate
11). Export Price ($ per ton)                   $107         $107  average of Urals Blend and heavier crudes
- Export Duty                                                  15 ECU/ton, credit for qualified investnent.
- Transport                                   $15        $2.1
i2). Net Export after Export Tax & Trans.
3). Net Export Price in Rubles                184.125
- Excise Levy (0% to 30%, avg. 18%)        20,935        21%   of equivalent Domestic Price
- Price Regulation Fund
4). Supplier's Price (Gross Wellhead)        163.190
- Royalty (6% to 16%, avg. 8%)             14,730         8% o% of Export Price (1)
- Geology Fund (10%, 5% credit possible)    7,700        10%  % of equivalent Domestic Price
- Net VAT                                   2,700         5%   % of Production Cost
- Road Users Tax                              859       0.4%   % of Wholesale Price (2)
- Social Payments                           1,170        39%   % of Wages, 3000 Rfton
- Investment Fund                                              % of Price before PRF (3)
- Insurance Fund                            4,295         2%   % of Price before PRF (3)
- Envir./Land/Science Funds                 1.800         5%   % of Production Cost
15). Sub-Total Govt. Funds and Charges         33,254
- Production Costs                         60.000                    $30.0 per ton
f6). Prime Cost                               2                    Govt. Funds (5) plus Production Costs
i7c). Balance Profit on New Export Sales       69,935  _    _            $35.0 per ton
Net Income Upstream
"Taxable Income and Govt. Take             Amount        Tax       Comments
(R/ton)    Rates %    _
17a). Balance Profit on Domestic Sales        16,408       85.3%
1j7b). Balance Profit on Flowing Export Sales  57,715       1.5%
|7c). Balance Profit on New Export Sales      69,935       13.2%   % of exports new oil           90%
18). Total Taxable Income (Average)           24,081        100%
9). - Income (Profit) Taxes                    9,151        38%   % of Taxable Income
+ Investment Funds
10). Net Income on Total Sales                14,930        $7.5
Government Take on
1 la). Domestic Sales (excl. price subsidies)  47,762      82%   % of Avg. Wholesale Prices-Prodn. Costs
lIb). Domestic Sales (incl. price subsidies)  133,952     93%   % of Export Price-Prodn. Costs
I Ic). Export Sales Flowing Oil, with duty  108,342        75%   % of Export Price-Transport-Prodn. Costs
lI d). Export Sales New Oil, w/o duty        80,765        65%   % of Export Price-Transport-Prodn. Costs
Ile). Govt. Take Average                     53,008        78%   % of Avg. Selling Prices-Production Costs
t l If ). Govt. Take Average (incl price subsidY)  126,554   89%   % of Avg. Selling Prices-Production Costs



148
Figure 8-l
Producer and Govt. Profit Sharing
Combined Oil Prodn. @S20/ton Prodn. Cost
125%
75%
X 25% _
-25%
Jan. 92    Feb 92    May 92   Sept. 92   Jan. 93    June 93    Jan. 94    June 94
Date
- Consumer Subsidies  MS Revenue Taxes    a           Profit Sensitive Taxes    Producer Profit
Composition of Govt. Take
Combined Oil Prodn. @$20/ton Prodn. Cost
ID100%     ~      .
x   80%
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
680%
40%
20%
0%
Jan. 92    Feb. 92    May 92   Sept 92   Jan. 93    June 93    Jan. 94    June 94
Date
m Export Taxes           I Revenue Taxes        m Profit Sensrtve Taxes



149
Table 8-2
Russia Ofl Payment Summary
(million rubles)
Total Receivables                                             1
MNG (Q4)                                215                68,908               186,140
TNG (Q3)                                286                29,116               150,161
YNG (Q3)                                252                69,113               407,814
Total Payables
MNG (Q4)                                275                55,181               221,456
TNG (Q3)                                349                29,537               207,278
YNG (Q3)                              1,016                76,060               525,717
Current Ratio
MNG (Q4)                               1.33                  1.85                  1.46
TNG (Q3)                               1.07                  1.08                  0.93
YNG (Q3)                               1.18                  1.24                  0.86
Receivables as % of Sales
MNG (Q4)                                                     14%                   34%
TNG (Q3)                                                     21 %                  27%
i YNG (Q3)                                                     8%                   29%
1Budget & Non-Budget P yables
i MNG (Q4)                                35                22,3791               96,1821
TNG (Q3)                                 26                 8,931                54,366|
| YNG (Q3)                               219                33,941               210,4821
ij 
j|Receivables to Payables
MNG (Q4)                               78%1125%                                    84%
ii TNG (Q3)                              82%f                 99%                    72%
YNG (Q3)                               25%                   91%                   78%
'Budget & Non-Budget as % of Payables
MNG (Q4)                               13%                  41%                    43%
L TNG (Q3)                                7%                  30%                    26%
YNG (Q3)                               22%,                  45%.                  40%



150
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT                      AnnexA.
Base Case (full export quotas)                   Table 8-3
COMPONENT FINANCIAL EVALUATION_
Real IRR  Peak Prodn.     NPV  Govt. Takeo ProducerRev
__________________________________                        %      mln  tons     nuln$      Percent      $min
Field                                                                                       . _
NW Megion In-fil                              1        24%         0.11         2.0        78             4
Main Megion In-fill                            2        16%         0.19         0.7        83%            5
SE Megion in-flu                               3        26%         0.21         4.0        78%            8
Megion Workovers                               4        41%         0.16         3.1        82%            5
Megion Pipeline                                5        23%         0.13         2.4        73%            7
otI Megion Field                               6        23%         0.77         11.8       79%           29
7
Pokamasovskoye In-fill                         8        65%         1.30        69.4        70%           85
Poamnovskoye Workovers                         9        85%         0.21         8.6        75%           10
Pokamovskoye Pipeline                         10        15%         0.07         0.1        75%            3
TotalPokamovskoyeField                         11        61%          1.58       77.9        71%           98
Total Megionneftegas                           12        43%         2.35        89.3        74%          127
13
Sov. ESP Workover                             14        40%         0.49        10.6        81%           17
Sov. RodPumpWorkover                          15        27%         0.13         2.5        79%            5
Sov. Horizonta Well                           16        72%         0.09         5.0        70%            6
Sov. Pipeline                                 17        62%         0.33        17.6        68%           24
otal Sovietskoye Field                         18        47%         1.02        35.8        75%           52
19
Per. ESP Workover                             20        46%         0.49        11.9        80%           18
Per. Rod Pump Workover                        21        32%         0.13         3.2        77%            5
Per. Horizontl Wel                            22        50%         0.07         3.1        72%            4
Per. Pipeline                                 23        60%         0.21        10.8        68%           15
otl Pervonuaiskoye Field                      24        47%         0.88        29.1        76%           42
25
Vahk. ESP Workover                            26        45%         0.49        11.7        80%           18
Vahk.RodPumnpWorkover                         27        31%         0.13         3.1        78%            5
Vahk. Horizontal WeU                          28        60%         0.09         4.6        71%            6
Vahk. Pipeline                                29        30%         0.22         6.6        71%           13
otal Vahkskoye Field                          30        39%         0.91        26.0        76%          42
Total Tomskneft                                31        44%         2.80        90.9        75%          135
32
Mam. Workover                                 33        64%         2.01        62.2        78%           82
Mam. Horizontal WeH                           34        18%         0.28         2.5        80%           11
Mam. Pipeline                                 35
otal Mamantova Field                          36        48%         2.29        64.1        78%           92
37
Sre. W/O Fracatring                           38        95%         0.54        28.1        72%          34
Sre. Horizontal Well                          39
Sre. Pipeline                                 40
Total Srednye AsonmkMskoye Field               41        95%         0.54        28.1       72%           34
42
Pri. Workover                                 43
Pri. Horizontal Well                          44        47%         0.34        19.8        68%          26
Pri. Pipeline                                 45
omal Priazlomnoye Field                        46        47%         0.34        19.8       68%           26
Total Yganskntes_                              47        53%         3.16       112.0        76%          152
48
Tota ProJect                                   49        47%         8.30       292.6        75%         415



151
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT                                  Am, I
PROJECT FINANCAL EVALUATION                       -Media Oa Pri2-                                                             Table 84
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~Fimei                     2           3          4            5           67
Production (of maximum) anddecline re         10%        27%         69%         80%         72%         65%         58%         52%
Production                                    10.4         2.8         7.2        8.3         7.5         6.7          6.1        5.4
Cumulative Production                         64.0          3          10          18          26          32          39          44
Capital Expenditure Profile                   $16        53%         47%
Capital Costs (mid 1994 $) incl Duties       $588         313         275
Depreciation Pool Facilties                  13%           41          74          66          58          50          42          35
Depreciation Pool Wells                      87%          271         456         354         252         150          48
Losses Pool
Oil Prices
Export Oil Price (fob)                                   108         108         108         108         108         108         108
Oil Price (domestic as % of international)  56%         70%        100%        100%        100%        100%        100%        100%
Oil Price (domestic) (years to foul price)    1.5         75         108         108         108         108         108         108
Grses Revenues
Oil Revenues (exports - no duty)          100.0%         299         776         894         805         724         652         587
Oil Revenues (exports - duty)
Oil Revenues (domestic)
Total Revenues                             100.0%         299         776         894         805         724         652         587
Transport Costs                            $19.0                     L31         1.5         142         122         llS         l
Net Wellhead Revenues                                     246         640         737         663         597         537         483
Revenue Taxes
Export Duties                                 18
Excise Tax (avg. for PAs)
Flat Excise $/ton                           $6.0          17          43          S0          45          40          36          33
Royalties                                   8.0%          18          48          55          49          45          40          36
Geology Fee                                10.0%          t4          60Q         62          (a          56          5           45
Total Revenue Taxes                                        42         11          i1          5i6         I           VA          I
Ne Revenues                                               197         489         563         507         456         411         370
Other Taxes and Payments                                   25         fil          62          8           75          65          56
-NetVAT                                   4.5%           5          11          11          13          13          10           7
-RoadUsersTax                             0.4%           1           3           3           3           2           2           2
- Social Payments                        40.0%          10          25          29          37          35          32          30
- Insurance Fund                          2.0%           5          13          15          13          12          11          10
- Envir./Land/Science Funds               4.5%           5          11          11          13          13          10           7
Producto Costs                                $17         1i          214         252X 26                 2           21          152
Labour (50% of Opex)                           9          24          62          72          93          87          81          76
Direct Opex                                    9          24          62          72          93          87          81          76
Dpreciation Facilities (years)                10           4           8           8           8           8           8           8
Depreciation Wells (years)                     5          54         102         102         102         102          48
in $/ton                                      $35          38          33          31          40          42          36          29
Bad Debts (% of domestic sales for 2 years  -10%           ____                                                    __               11
ross Margin                                                66         193         241         131          98         128         154
Losses Carried Forward
plus excess wages (25% of wage bill)      25.0%            6          16          18          23          22          20          19
Less Invest Deduction (max 50% reduction
ProfitTaxes                                 38.0%          22          72          98          52          46          52          66
Net Income                                                 38         114         142          72          53          72          88
plus Depreciation                                         58         110         110         110         110          55           8
Net Cash Flow                                              97         224         252         182         163         127          96
Cash Flow after Invest (@15% real)            293        (216)        (51)        252         182         163         127          96
MR Real                                      47%
Profit Margin Drbuimd
ovm. Reenue perton                           $41          37          40          41          39          39          41          43
Opeafting Margin                            1,663        140         405         483         367         314         320         324
Consumer Subsidies
tal Govt. Paymems                            75%          101         291         341         295         261         248         236
Export Tax
Exise Tax                                   11%           17         43          50          45          40          36          33
Royalty                                     12%           18         48          55          49          45          40          36
Geology                                     15%           14         60          69          62          56          50          45
Miscellaneous NonBudget. incl Soci          18%          25          61          69          80          75          65          56
Corpoate loome Tax                          19%           27          79          98          59          46          57          66
oTalProducer TaI                            25%           38         114         142          72          53          72          88



RUSSIA SECOND OIL REiHABILITATION PROJECT                                                               Tbe8-5
FINANCIAL SENSITIVITY
Internal Rate of Return        ___
Senario                                      Project  -cgonfea                                               rn     tgs-YuganskreiGCas7
_________________________________   Total     Total   Megion   Pokcom.    Total.    Soy.           Per.       Valik    Total  Mamon.    Sre.            Pri.
Base Case (ful export quotas)                   47%        43%        23%       61%        44%       47%        47%       39%       53%        48%       95%       47%
Average Export Quotas (I 5% of prodn.)           33%       32%        18%       43%        31%       33%        32%       27%       36%7       32%       56%        36%
Low Oil Price $13.5/bbl Brent                    15%       14%         6%       23%         8%       11%         9%        5%        17%       13%       31%       22%
Median Oil Price $16.5/bbi Brent (Base)         47%        43%        23%       61%        44%       47%        47%       39%       53%        48%       95%        47%
High Oil Price $19.5/bbi Brent                   88%       78%        45%      111%        84%       89%        91%       74%       103%       96%  -_ 100%         77%
Bad Debts 0 % of domestic sales                  47%        3          3         1          4         7          7         9          3         8%95 %              4%
Bad Debts 10% of domestic sales (Base)           47%       43%        23%       61%       44%        47%        47%       39%       53%        48%       95%        47%
Bad Debts 20% of domestic sales                 47%        43%        23%       61%        44%       47%        47%       39%       53%        48%       95%        47%
Excise Tax $6/ton (Base)                         47%    %             23%       6%        '44%        7        47%        39%        3         4%        95
Excise Tax $9/zon                                42%       39%        20%       55%        39%       42%        42%       34%       47%        41%       85%        43%
Excise Tax $12Iton                               36%       34%        17%       50%        34%       37%        36%       29%       41%        35%       75%        39%
Excise Tax $15/ton                               32%       30%        14%       44%        29%       32%        31%       25%       35%        29%       66%        36%
Excise Tax $9/ton. Low Oil Price $13.5            5%       10%                  18%         3%        5%         2%                  3%     _ _          23%        19%
Custom Duty 0%                                   56%       51%        28%    72%           53%       56%        56%       46%       65%        58%      119%        55%
Custom Duty 1S5%  (Base)                         47%       43%        23%       61%       44%        47%       47%        39%       53%        48%       95%        47%      -
Custom Duty 20%                                  44%       41%        22%       58%        42%    _45%          45%       3b%        50%       45%       89%        44%     '
Capital Costs (Base)                             47%       43%        23%       61%        44%       47%        47%       39%       53%        48%       95%       47%
Capital Costs +25%                               35%       33%        17%       47%        32%       34%        35%       28%        39%       35%       67%        37%
Capital Costs +50%                               27%       26%        12%       37%        24 %      26%        26%       20%        30%       26%       51%        30%
Capital Costs +-100%                             16%        16%        6%       25%        14%       16%        15%       11%    _  8%         15%       32%        21%
Operating Costs +0%                              62%       56%        32%       78%        59%       63%        64%       53%        70%    66%         121%        54%
Operating Costs +35% (Base)                      47%       43%        23%       61%        44%       47%        47%       39%        53%       48%       95%        47%
Operating Costs +50%/                            40%       38%        19%       -54%       37%       40%        40%       32%       46%        39%       85%        44%
Production No Prodn. Losses                      5%         0%        2%        71%        5%        5%         5%        4%        6%         5%       17           5
Production -10% Losses (Base)                   47%        43%        23%       61%        44%       47%        47%       39%       53%        48%       95%        47%
Production -25%                                 25%        26%        11%       38%       23%        26%       25%        19%       2b%        21%       50%       29%:
Productio-5%                                      2%        9%                  1 6%                  3%                                                 11%        13%
Production Decline 10%  (Base)      --           47%       43%        2%        6%         44        47        47%.       39%i      53         48        95%       47
Production Decline 15%                           42%       39%        19%       57%        40%       43%       43%        34%       49%        43%       92%       43%
Production Decline 20%                           38%       35%        14%       54%        36%       39%       39%        30%,    44%          38%       88%       40%



RUSSIA SECONI) OIL REIIABILITATION PROJECT                                                                   Anlfx 8:1
ASSOCIATION FINANCIAL FORECASTS                                            - Mcdian Oil Price                                                                   Table 8-6
(million end 1993$)
Combined Assocatiots                  _       99         995-         199-6     '-9-              ----=1999    -_2000            2001       2002         2003- _    2
Production (mrittons)                       5 .5        55.4        53.3        53.1        53.3        53.4        53.6        53.6        53.7        53.7       53.8
of which New Production                                             2.9         6.7        10.2        13.4        16.4        19.1        21.6        24.0       26.2
incremental New Production (non-project)     20         0.3         2.9         4.0         3.9         3.9         3.9         3.9         3.9         3.9        3.9
Nei Cash Flow before Investment                         71.3        713.5       981.6      958.0       958.2       951.9       945.3       945 4       945.6      946.1
Debt SctviCe                                              3.0         9.0        30.8       29.3        27.8        26.3        24.8        23.3        21.8       20.3
Debt Service Coverage (times)                           24.8         80.3        32.9       33.8        35.5        37.3        39.2        41.7        44.5       47.7
Investment Program (I of New Wells)         $1.8          40         400         551         537         538         534         530         530         531        531
Investment Programn .based on Cash Flow                 146.3 == .988.5   , _ 981.6        958.0       958.2       95,19 _     9453        945 4       945.6      94 61
IHengonnefteg__                              1993                                                                                                           3       2994 1996. '   9 -99'  2I1  200  2002  20030
Production (ninlotns)                        13.5        333         13.7        14.0        140         14.0       14.0        13.9        13.9        138         138
of which New Production                                             0.8          1.8        2.7         3.5         4.3         4.9         5.6         6.1        6.6
incrermental New Production (non-project)    20         0.1         0.8          1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0        1.0
Net Cash Plow before Investment                          31.6      200.8       255.4       248.4       247.4       241.8       235.8       234 6       233.7      232.9
Debt Service                                              2.9         8.9        30.8       29.3        27.8        26.3        24.8        23.3        21.8        20.3
Debt Service Coverage (times)                            11.7        23.4        9.3         9.S         9.9        10.2        10.5        11.1        11 7        12.5
lnvestment Program (I of New Wells)         $S.8          18         113         143         139         139         136         132         132         131        131
Invesmnt Pr egram gWd on Cash flow) _                   105.3       27?72      25.4        248.4        2474       241.8       235.8 __ 234.6          2337  _   2329
romskneft                                   .-w                                  19-7   - '.
Production (mintons)                         11.6        11.8        32.5        12.9        32.9        12.9        12.8       i2.7        12.6        32.5        12.4
of which New Production                                             0.8          1.7        2.5         3.2         3.9         4.5         5.0         5.5        5.9
incremental New Production (non-project)     20         0.2         0 X          1.0        0.9         0.9         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.8        0.8
Net Cash Flow before Investment                          39.8       193.4      240.3       222.2       220.0       212.2       206.3       204.0       202.0      200.2
Debt Service                                             3.7         9.7        3u.8        29.3        27.8        26.3        24.8        23.3        21.8       20.3
Debt Service Coverage (times)                            11.9        21.0        8.8         8.6         8.9         9.1         9.3         98         103         30.9
InvestmentProgram(IofNewWells)              $1.8          22         108         135         125         123         119         116         114         113        112
mnvetent Proeram (based on Cast Flow)    __.       = _   31 1      252.0       240.3       222 2       ,220.0    ,212.2 2      203         204 0  _   202 0 ___200.2
IYu nsknefieas                s9~i 1 9933 99S_ 199h                               (          1999                    2000 _   2001 _   _ 2002--  ' _ -03              0 0'T4
Producaion (mlnlons)                        33.4        3i.1         31.6       33.8        3.9'        331.8       3.8         31.7      --3-1.6-  '' 33 36       31.5
of which New Production                                             1.8         4.0         6.0         7.9         9.5        11.1        12.5       13 9        15.1
incremental New Production (non-project)     20         0.2         1.8         2.4         2.3         2.3         2.2         2 2        2.2         2.2         2.2
Net Cash Flow beforelnvestment                          54.9       434.2       579.8       554.0       552.1       543.6       5350        544.5       543 0      541.7
Debt Service                                             4.3         19.2       46.8        44 4        42.0        39.6        37.2        23.3        21 8       20.3
Debt Service Coverage (tmes)                             13 8       23.6         13.4        13.5       14.1        14.7        15.4        24.4        260        27.8
Investment Program (# of New Wells)          $3.8         31         244         325         311         310         305         300        305         305         304
Investment Po2ram(ased on Cash  lon9        =     = -.. _  .   31638  541 I    579.8       554 0       552-1   543.6           535.0       544.S       543.0      541.7



154
GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MOSCOW
June 8, 1994
0881p-P4
Mr. Russell J. Cheetham
Director
Europe and Central Asia Region
World Bank
Dear Mr. Cheetham:
Re: Second Oil Rehabilitation Project
This is to inform the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Bank)
that the Government of the Russian Federation agrees with the proposed Oil Rehabilitation Project
to be fmanced under the Bank's loan in the amount of US$ 500 million on conditions set out in the
documents agreed between the Russian delegation and the Bank during consultations and negotiations
in Washington May 16 to May 27, 1994.
At the same time, the Government is pleased to advise the Bank of recent policy
actions with respect to the oil sector and to confirm its intentions to irnplement additional policies
in 1994-1995 with a view to strengthening and further developing economic reforms in the Russian
oil industry.
Oil trade has been substntially liberalized by Presidential Decree No. 1007, dated
May 23, 1994, which abolishes all quotas and licenses for exports of goods and services except those
which are exported in compliance w:th the international commitmnents of the Russian Federation.
The Government will continue to improve procedures regarding oil producers' access
to the oil transportation system. The Government is actively involved in improving the system of
economic regulation and legislative support to oil production and transport and the draft Law on Oil
and Gas recently submitted to the Duma is evidence of this. It is the Government's intent to provide
detailed plans for the establishment of a regulatory framework for crude oil transport by January
1995, including economic tariffs and other adequate provision for non-discrirninatory access.
The Government will continue to promote investments in rehabilitation and
development projects in the oil industry. As part of this policy the Government is committed to
effective implementation of the Goverrnent Resolutions No. 179 and 180, dated March 1, 1993.
It is the intent of the Government that any recent or planned decrees should deepen or at least
preserve the incentives provided by such resolutions.
With a view to strengthening the fiscal framework for joint ventures with foreign
participation, the Govermnent has taken steps to ensure that oil investments by joint ventures with
foreign participation, registered prior to December 31, 1993, are provided with export tariff
privileges by issuing Decree No. 497, dated May 19, 1994.
Continued reform of oil taxation is a priority of the Government as exemplified by



155
Annex 9-1
Page 2 of 2
Governrment Resolution No. 320, dated April 14, 1994, which converts the variable excise tax on
oil from a percentage ad valorem tax to an equivalent ruble per ton tax. This change is expected to
increase tax compliance. Care was taken in introducing this reform to avoid any increase in the
statutory burden of the tax and to maintain its variable character which is responsive to the
underlying profitability of different producers.
The Government supports a policy of shifting oil taxation from revenue-based taxation
towards profits-based taxation. Presidential Decree 2285 issued December 24. 1993, "Concerning
Issues Related to Production Sharing" establishes the possibility of a simple tax system based on
three components (the corporate profits tax, a royalty and a production share) which would be
essentially profits-based. The Government is actively developing a series of normative documents
for the implementation of this production sharing system with the expectation that all necessary steps
w;ll be complete by late 1994/early 1995. A series of major projects would come under this these
new principles. At the same time, the Government, as noted above, is adjusting the tax system on
existing production to be more sensitive to profits and has planned additional studies to facilitate a
move to profits-based taxes.
In addition to taxation aspects, the Governrnent is in the process of elaborating a
complete legal framework for petroleum operations, which should be complete by end-1994 or early
1995. A number of regulatory acts, including a model form agreem,ent for petroleum operations will
be prepared and submitted to the Government by its experts in July 1994. As noted, the draft law
on Oil and Gas has been submitted to the Duma and additional legislation will be submitted in the
coming months, including Amendments to the Law on the Subsoil and the Law on Concessions and
Contracts.
The Government is aNware of certain difficulties arising in the current economic
environment as regards the implementation of a number of planned investment projects in the oil
sector, including the imnplementation of the Bank's First Oil Rehabilitation Loan. These difficulties
are mainly encountered in paying customs duties on imports of oil equipment and materials and in
facing delays in the recovery of VAT payments on such irnports. The Government is examining a
number of possible remedies, including those proposed by Bank representatives to the Russian
Delegation in Washington.
As it proceeds with its work on oil sector reforms, the Government expects to
maintain its program of regular policy consultations with the Bank, begun in the context of
preparation of the First Oil Rehabilitation Project.
Yours sincerely,
A. Shokhin
Deputy Chairman of the Government of the
Russian Federation



156
Annex 9-2
Page 1 of 2
RUSSIA SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
I. POLICY RELATED DOCUMENTS
A. Petroleum Pricing
1.    Presidential Decrees on Petroleum Pricing 1992-1994.
B. Taxation
2.    Corporate Income Tax Law as Amended 1993
3.    Customs Law 1993
4.    Presidential Decrees on Oil Taxation 1992-1994
C. Petroleum Legislatio.:
5.    Law on the Subsoil 1992
6.    Statute on Licensing 1992
7.    Draft Law on Oil and Gas 1994
8.    Draft Amendments to Subsoil Law 1994
9.    Draft Law on Concession and Contracts 1994
10.   Decree 2885. 1993
11.   Minutes of Workshop on Russian Oil Legislation and Taxation (April 1994)
D. Institutional and Enterprise Reforms
12.   Presidential Decrees and Government Protocols 1992-1994
E. Tendering
13.   Promotional Brochures 1993-1994
F. Bank Materials
14.   Aide-Memoires and Consultant Reports 1992-1994



157
Annx 9-2
Page 2 of 2
II. PROJECT RELATED DOCUMENTS
15.   Russian Federation Petroleum Development and Production: Background Infonnation (March,
1992) -- Gustavson Associates; Spears & Associates.
16.   Project Identification Mission Aide Memoire (July, 1993).
17.   Project Preappraisal Mission Aide Memoire (October/December, 1993).
18.   Project Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire (March, 1993).
19.   Russia Second Oil Rehabilitation Project: Draft Environmental Assessment (February, 1993)
20.   Project De.finition Studies, Tyumen Task Force (December 1993)



IBRD 24146RI
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                                                                                       I 550  Io KtIOMETTIS                                            U.S.A.
SECOND OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                            0    200   A60   600 mslDs
MAIN PETROLEUM BASINS AND CRUDE OIL TRUNK LINES
PETROULUM BASIN BOUlNDARES                     CRUDE OIL TRUNK UNES             RIVERS
PETROLEU. BASINS IN IHE RUSSIAN fEDERATION       EXISTING                  *    NATIONAL                                                                                                                                       i\
I      WESIERN SIEERIAN EASIN                          PLANNED OR UNDER                CAPTALt
VU                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CO"STRUICTION      INTERNATIONAL
EC1 OTHER EASINS                                       SELECTED PIPELINE TERMINALS  -     OBUNDARIEL
NORWAY                      . .
D OENMAkK                -          SWEDEN          '      i  -
JERMANY
FINLAND    -  '
-   VenOpiU_ .                    ~            .      ,       N\.,,,.J  
.L SSLAss  .   ESTONIA                                                                             /
VTI \                                                                       ,                                                       VI/\                                           ,
'~POLAND                 LATVIA
LITHUANIAI
1.0>0ftf:f, e<
DoLo    BELARUS 3           o*
! ]>
LIb KRAII~E
N~~~~~~~AA
TURKEY                                                                                                                                                                                                              C H I N AdkI  P~I\ 
K AZA K HAZ   ATAN'iVAdK--)k
V                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MONGOLIA              PETROLEUM BASINS
/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                   I. B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORECAPTIAN  'All. NORTH USETURT    TV. STolAN PECHORA
IIDNEIPERBDONETS PRIPYAT            L.AMUE-DARYA                XVI. WEST SIBERIAN
I  ,\'&)s-''.-0~~~~~~<,0                                 .-.~~~~.$                                     III CRIMEAN-NORTH CAUCASUS MABRGTSHLAK  S BADE AMEANNCRTRCAUA.USRANCSHLATX..ASTDRALSEiTILNISYAKHTANA
IRAQ   1.r  I  /~~~~~~~l4~~~~L~ o                -                     5                          ,.                     IV ILOLR.HIDA DEPRESSION                 TURDAT                    WIll. LTNA.TUPRODDKLKHAA EASTERNN)  STRGAIBERIANENAIUNGSKA EASERN IBEIAN
SI S~~~~~OUTH CASPIANX  CHU.DBSD                                            BIXDLNA
*1  -V   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NI                                                         VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRE'CASPIAN          VIII TZDHIK ISURKHAN-VAKSHI    TV AMUR
isLA          OFRE   IRA                                                                                                                          V, OLA-RAS                             IV FERGANA                 XXI OKLHOTSK REGION-NORTH SAKHALIN
DVI  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _     _    I       _     _     _     _     _     _      _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA"TW



tBRD 241 45R1I
7    r=YodXn;scof .                                                                             olrro>                     Sy 0RUSSIAN FEDERATIONI
00 d, 01,0   -I,( 
omy j,ama,on0hoC00o1                                                                            < (J          o 3PUie           o               SECOND  OIL REHABIUTATION  PROJECT
baacidyfho,ca  1f     0uch                                                      o      (S?g7      Gliaskaye   gF~8                                            MAIN PETROLEUM PRODUCER
o   /0 oVl   (,                                                   ASSOCIATIONS OF WESTERN SIBERIA
0                                0                                               PRODUCER ASSOCATION BOUNDARIES
C   <( JI \ ]t)2$3   a 0UYL  1 )                           e I    HEADOUARTERS OF PRODUCER ASSOrIATIONS
V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~                                         OIL AND GAS FIELOS
0                                 0~~~~~~~C             00N
 G t o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARY 
<Z    'JU0   RIVERSj
T  Y  U  M    E  N                       NOYASRSK
CIO  0                                                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~    NATIONAL CAPITAL
o2                60.9        9 .  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
X  U  a g CD                                                  a CgSE
C)                                                                                   (j~~~~~~~~OALMGKLaMOURS
OiALYMG               I)          ( RADUZHNY                                        0           100          200
n  {>)    \         9                     (\17          t              ~ ) o                t o                                                       App-oil-o.-e=l
\   |Em-+ 9   \  C4)~c~7                                                                                         0  )t)Dt 
<, a                            0                                       C) G0j  TOzSK<,   
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                                          ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~SURGUJT   LANGES7                                           o,sa 
KHIANTYMNIO               1     $    4    m     ~     S                                      EVAR90VSK-                                L    A~aI
0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SALYM                                                                                                       , Q)
SMARC 1..



