Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3768 RU
                              Loan Agreement
                    (Second Oil Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated September 27, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3768 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1994, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by OTJSC Megionneftegas
(Megionneftegas), Part B of the Project will be carried out by OTJSC
Tomskneft (Tomskneft) and Part C of the Project will be carried out by OTJSC
Yuganskneftegas (Yuganskneftegas), all with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Megionneftegas, Tomskneft and Yuganskneftegas the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement, in the Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and Yuganskneftegas, in the Tomskneft Project
Page  2
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Tomskneft and in the
Megionneftegas Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Megionneftegas;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
    Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Megionneftegas" means OTJSC Megionneftegas incorporated under its
Charter dated July 5, 1993 (the Charter);
    (b)   "Megionneftegas Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and OTJSC Megionneftegas (Megionneftegas) of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Megionneftegas Project Agreement;
    (c)   "Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and Megionneftegas pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
    (d)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated June 8, 1994 and June 20, 1994 between the Borrower and the
Bank;
    (e)   "Tomskneft" means OTJSC Tomskneft incorporated under its Charter
dated July 5, 1993 (the Charter);
    (f)   "Tomskneft Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and OTJSC Tomskneft (Tomskneft) of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Tomskneft Project Agreement;
    (g)   "Tomskneft Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Tomskneft pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Tomskneft Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
    (h)   "Yuganskneftegas" means OTJSC Yuganskneftegas incorporated under
its Charter dated July 9, 1993 (the Charter);
    (i)   "Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and OTJSC Yuganskneftegas (Yuganskneftegas) of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Yuganskneftegas Project
Agreement; and
    (j)   "Yuganskneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Yuganskneftegas pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Yuganskneftegas Subsidiary
Page  3
Loan Agreement;
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of
the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.
          (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
    the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Page  4
    Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
    of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On
    each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
    Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
    during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
    during such Interest Period."
          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
    Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
    determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
    January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
    Section 2.08. Yuganskneftegas is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part C of the Project for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
    Section 2.09. Tomskneft is designated as representative of the Borrower
in respect of Part B of the Project for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
    Section 2.10. Megionneftegas is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part A of the Project for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft and
Megionneftegas to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement, the Tomskneft Project Agreement and the
Megionneftegas Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of
Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft and Megionneftegas therein set forth, shall take
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft and Megionneftegas to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
    (b)   The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $190 million to
Yuganskneftegas under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Yuganskneftegas, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank which shall include: (i) ten years maturity
with two years grace period; (ii) interest rate at Bank's rate plus 0.75%
as premium; and (iii) foreign exchange risk borne by Yuganskneftegas
    (c)   The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $160 million to
Tomskneft under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Tomskneft, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank which shall include: (i) ten year maturity with two
years grace period, (ii) interest rate at Bank's rate plus 0.75% as premium;
and (iii) foreign exchange risk borne by Tomskneft.
    (d)   The Borrower shall relend to Megionneftegas the equivalent of $150
million under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Megionneftegas, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include: (i) ten years maturity with
two years grace period; (ii) interest rate at Bank's rate plus 0.75% as
Page  5
premium; and (iii) foreign exchange risk borne by Megionneftegas.
    (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Yuganskneftegas
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Yuganskneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
    (f)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Tomskneft
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Tomskneft Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
    (g)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Megionneftegas
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of: (a) Part C of the Project shall be carried out
by Yuganskneftegas pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Yuganskneftegas Project
Agreement; (b) Part B of the Project shall be carried out by Tomskneft
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Tomskneft Project Agreement; and (c) Part
A of the Project shall be carried out by Megionneftegas pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Megionneftegas Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft or Megionneftegas shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement,
Tomskneft Project Agreement or Megionneftegas Project Agreement,
respectively.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft or Megionneftegas will
be able to perform its obligations under the Yuganskneftegas Project
Agreement, Tomskneft Project Agreement or Megionneftegas Project Agreement,
respectively.
    (c)   The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
Yuganskneftegas to perform any of its obligations under the Yuganskneftegas
Project Agreement.
    (d)   The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
Tomskneft to perform any of its obligations under the Tomskneft Project
Agreement.
    (e)   The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
Megionneftegas to perform any of its obligations under the Megionneftegas
Project Agreement.
    (f)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Yuganskneftegas
or for the suspension of its operations.
    (g)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Tomskneft or for
Page  6
the suspension of its operations.
    (h)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Megionneftegas
or for the suspension of its operations.
    Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
    (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h)
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
    Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower,
Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft and Megionneftegas.
    Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
    (a)   that the Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Yuganskneftegas, and is legally binding upon
Yuganskneftegas in accordance with its terms;
    (b)   that the Tomskneft Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Tomskneft, and is legally binding upon Tomskneft in accordance
with its terms;
    (c)   that the Megionneftegas Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Megionneftegas, and is legally binding upon Megionneftegas
in accordance with its terms;
    (d)   that the Yuganskneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Yuganskneftegas and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Yuganskneftegas in accordance with its terms;
    (e)   that the Tomskneft Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Tomskneft and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and Tomskneft in accordance with its terms; and
    (f)   that the Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Megionneftegas and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Megionneftegas in accordance with its terms.
    Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. Except as provided in Sections 2.08, 2.09 and 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          103092 Moscow
Page  7
          Ilyinka Street 9
          Russian Federation
                                         Telex:
                                                 112008
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                             RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                             By /s/ Oleg Soskovets
                             Authorized Representative
                             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             By /s/ Wilfred Thalwitz
                             Regional Vice President
                             Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1) Equipment                 93,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
Page  8
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2) Commodities                7,400,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Technical oil             35,100,000        100%
    field services
(4) Technical                  5,500,000        100%
    assistance
(5)  Project Pre-              1,000,000        Amount due pur-
     paration Advance                           suant to Section
                                                2.02 (b) of this
                                                Agreement
(6)  Unallocated               8,000,000
Part B of the Project
(7)  Equipment               117,400,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(8)  Commodities               1,600,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(9)  Technical oil            20,500,000        100%
     field services
(10) Technical                 7,500,000        100%
     assistance
(11) Project Pre-              1,000,000        Amounts due pur-
     paration Advance                           suant to Section
                                                2.02 (b) of this
                                                Agreement
(12) Unallocated              12,000,000
Part C of the Project
(13) Equipment               130,600,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local expen-
Page  9
                                                nditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(14) Commodities               4,200,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(15) Technical oil            34,600,000        100%
     field services
(16) Technical                 7,000,000        100%
     assistance
(17) Project Pre-              1,000,000        Amounts due pur-
     paration Advance                           suant to Section
                                                2.02 (b) of this
                                                Agreement
(18) Unallocated              12,600,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               500,000,000
                             ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also
that of another country from the territory of which the goods and services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
to exceed $3,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (4), (10) and
(16) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
June 1, 1994; (b) (i) payments made in respect of Categories (1) - (4) and
(6) (Part A of the Project) until Letters of Invitation and bidding
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for Part A (iv) (Environmental
Protection) have been issued, and (ii) financial auditors have been
appointed; (c) (i) payments made in respect of Categories (7) - (10) and
(12) (Part B of the Project) until Letters of Invitation and bidding
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for Part B (iv) (Environmental
Protection) have been issued, and (ii) financial auditors have been
appointed; and (d) (i) payments made in respect of Categories (13) - (16)
and (18) (Part C of the Project) until Letters of Invitation and bidding
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for Part C (iii) (Environmental
Protection) have been issued, and (ii) financial auditors have been
appointed.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) finance specific investments
over a two year period in three selected oil producers' associations, and
(b) support the Borrower's reform programs in the oil sector in the areas
Page  10
of pricing, taxation, legislation, restructuring and promotion of private
sector investment.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Megionneftegas
          (i)   Oil Field Modernization: Workover and modernization of
                about 75 wells including provision of measuring facilities,
                in the Megion and Pokamovskoye fields, in wells judged to
                provide adequate economic returns and which do not
                interfere with wells currently under or previously
                committed to contract to other parties.
         (ii)   Surface Facility Replacement: Reconstruction of about 255
                km of high priority surface facilities, particularly, oil
                gathering lines, pipelines and water conduits, in the above
                mentioned fields.
          (iii)        In-fill Drilling: In-fill and step-out drilling of
                       about 76 wells in the Megion and Pokamovskoye
                       fields, including the drilling of horizontal wells
                       from existing wellpads to avoid drilling in
                       environmentally sensitive regions of the field and
                       including associated surface facilities.
         (iv)   Environmental Protection: Enhancement of the Association's
                emergency response, environmental monitoring and management
                capabilities (including relations with indigenous peoples)
                through provision of training, manuals and equipment and
                initiation of trial clean-up programs, such as
                bioremediation, for previous spills and damage.
          (v)   Field Optimization Study: Carry out a comprehensive field
                optimization study in one of the fields currently under
                production aimed at identifying and evaluating optimal
                plans for future operation of the field including both
                subsurface and surface facility considerations. The program
                would include provision of computer equipment and services,
                plus training to undertake reservoir analysis and
                simulations.
Part B:   Tomskneft
          (i)   Oil Field Modernization: Workover and modernization of
                about 525 wells including provision of measuring
                facilities, in the Sovietskoye, Vahk and Vasugan fields, in
                wells judged to provide adequate economic returns and which
                do not interfere with wells currently under or previously
                committed to contract to other parties.
         (ii)   Surface Facility Replacement: Reconstruction of about 576
                km of high priority surface facilities, particularly, oil
                gathering lines, pipelines and water conduits, in the above
                mentioned fields.
        (iii)   In-fill Drilling: In-fill and step-out drilling of about 11
                wells in the above mentioned fields.
         (iv)   Environmental Protection: Enhancement of the Association's
                emergency response, environmental monitoring and management
                capabilities (including relations with indigenous peoples)
                through provision of training, manuals and equipment and
                initiation of trial clean-up programs, such as
                bioremediation, for previous spills and damage.
          (v)   Field Optimization Study: Carry out a comprehensive field
                optimization study in one of the fields currently under
                production aimed at identifying and evaluating optimal
                plans for future operation of the field including both
Page  11
                subsurface and surface facility considerations. The program
                would include provision of computer equipment and services,
                plus training to undertake reservoir analysis and
                simulations.
Part C:   Yuganskneftegas
          (i)   Oil Field Modernization: Workover and modernization of
                about 576 wells including provision of measuring
                facilities, in the Mamantova and Srednye Asomkinskoye
                fields, in wells judged to provide adequate economic
                returns and which do not interfere with wells currently
                under or previously committed to contract to other parties.
          (ii)  In-fill Drilling: In-fill and step-out drilling of about 40
                wells in the Mamantova and Prirazlomnoye fields, including
                the drilling of horizontal wells from existing wellpads to
                avoid drilling in environmentally sensitive regions of the
                field and including associated surface facilities.
         (iii)  Environmental Protection: Enhancement of the Association's
                emergency response, environmental monitoring and management
                capabilities (including relations with indigenous peoples)
                through provision of training, manuals and equipment and
                initiation of trial clean-up programs, such as
                bioremediation, for previous spills and damage.
          (iv)  Field Optimization Study: Carry out a comprehensive field
                optimization study in one of the fields currently under
                production aimed at identifying and evaluating optimal
                plans for future operation of the field including both
                subsurface and surface facility considerations. The program
                would include provision of computer equipment and services,
                plus training to undertake reservoir analysis and
                simulations.
                                  *  *  *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
    beginning December 15, 1999          20,835,000
    through   December 15, 2010
And on June 15, 2011                     20,795,000
Page  12
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
