Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3768 RU
                     Megionneftegas Project Agreement
                    (Second Oil Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                           OTJSC MEGIONNEFTEGAS
                         Dated September 27, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3768 RU
                     MEGIONNEFTEGAS PROJECT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and OTJSC MEGIONNEFTEGAS
(Megionneftegas).
    WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Russian
Federation (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to five
hundred million dollars ($500,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Megionneftegas agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
    (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Megionneftegas, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to Megionneftegas on the terms
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
    WHEREAS Megionneftegas, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
    Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 2.01. Megionneftegas declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and oil field practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Part A of the Project.
    Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. Megionneftegas shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Megionneftegas Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
    Section 2.04. Megionneftegas shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Megionneftegas shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 2.05. (a) Megionneftegas shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
    (b)   Megionneftegas shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by Megionneftegas of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of Megionneftegas
    Section 3.01. Megionneftegas shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and oil field
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
    Section 3.02. Megionneftegas shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and oil field practices.
    Section 3.03. Megionneftegas shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
Page  3
    Section 4.01. (a) Megionneftegas shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition and those in respect of Part A of the
Project.
    (b)   Megionneftegas shall:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year:
                (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
                year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
                audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Megionneftegas shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of
Megionneftegas for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of
such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the
estimated maximum debt service requirements of Megionneftegas for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of Megionneftegas, including the debt to
be incurred.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of Megionneftegas
                which establishes a fixed financial obligation.
         (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
                contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
                such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment
                on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
                (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                       operations adjusted to take account of the
                       Borrower's prices in effect at the time of the
                       incurrence of debt even though they were not in
                       effect during the twelve-month period to which such
                       revenues relate and net non-operating income; and
                (B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations
                       including administration, adequate maintenance,
                       social payments paid from profits, taxes and
                       payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                       for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                       and interest and other charges on debt.
          (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                between:
                (A)    revenues from all sources other than those related
                       to operations; and
                (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                       taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
                       above.
Page  4
          (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be
                necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
                shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
                such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
                such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
                a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Megionneftegas shall maintain (i) a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.25 commencing with fiscal year ending
December 31, 1995; (ii) accounts receivable at a level not greater than 60
days of sales revenues equivalent to the preceding 60 days; and (iii)
accounts payable including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes at a level
not greater than 75 days of cash expenses equivalent to the preceding 75
days.
    (b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, Megionneftegas
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by Megionneftegas and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review show that Megionneftegas would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for Megionneftegas' fiscal years
covered by such review, Megionneftegas shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including limited payments of dividends or other payments from
profits) in order to meet such requirements.
    (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which
                could in the ordinary course of business be converted into
                cash within twelve months, including accounts receivable,
                marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses
                properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next
                fiscal year.
         (ii)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which
                will become due and payable or could under circumstances
                then existing be called for payment within twelve months,
                including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                dividends.
        (iii)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (iv)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                Borrower, debt payment in another currency, such valuation
                shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
                such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
                such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
                a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
    Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
Megionneftegas thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Page  5
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall
promptly notify Megionneftegas thereof.
    Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT)
    For Megionneftegas:
          626441 Megion
          12 Zareahnaya
          Tyumen Region,
          Russia
                                         Telex:
                                           735092 "Taiya"
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of Megionneftegas, or by Megionneftegas on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by Director General or
such other person or persons as Director General shall designate in writing,
and Megionneftegas shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
    Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Wilfred Thalwitz
                       Regional Vice President
                       Europe and Central Asia
Page  6
                       OTJSC MEGIONNEFTEGAS
                       By /s/ Vladimir Seniv
                       Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Russian Federation may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Technical oil field services and chemicals of a highly specialized
nature may be procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from an acceptable list of qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II
of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from
at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.  Items or group of items of a specialized nature or available from a
single supplier estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000, may be procured through direct contracting subject to prior
approval by the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  7
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts
with respect to all contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist Megionneftegas in carrying out Part A of the Project,
Megionneftegas shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
